ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State, who is going to discuss two more blocks with the Chamber, namely the labour market and the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Among other things, Mrs Voortman asked me to reflect on the labour market. This is important, because we are all very concerned about short-term and long-term employment in health care. Like them, we must not run away from the effects of austerity if they have to. We can differ as to whether or not the cuts should be made, but they bring and carry with them the consequences of employment. As far as I am concerned, this is not the end of the discussion but a beginning of the discussion on how to proceed with the labour market in care, because it is moving strongly. I would point out that in 2013 I concluded the healthcare agreement with social partners. That was before even one of the reform laws was in the Chamber. A number of cuts have been eased. There has been investment in retraining and further training. 40,000 people have already taken advantage of this. 20,000 people still do. That is why, for example, when TSN Home Care went bankrupt, we took everything out of the closet and always sat on top to keep as many jobs and working conditions as possible. Tackling the consequences of the cuts is one side of the story. The other side of the story is that tens of thousands of additional jobs, including other jobs, will be needed in healthcare in the coming years. The members have seen the labour market report. It is expected that up to 126,000 additional people in healthcare will be needed by 2020 compared to 2015. But the work changes due to the heavier care demand and the other ways of supporting home. Sometimes, innovation also changes the labour market. That is why I sat on the table with the municipalities and the trade unions, which agreed on 4 December on the labour market in health care in the light of the reforms, i.e. after the healthcare agreement. In addition, we agreed on a few things. 1. We guarantee decent working conditions by first banning alpha aids by law and secondly making competition on working conditions in the WMO at AMvB impossible. 2. We develop new features in the Wmo for home support. As far as I am concerned, there are great opportunities for the future. 3. We have drawn up a comprehensive agenda for the training of staff, including in nursing homes, so that we can deal with the heavier care demand. 4. We invest 100 million structurally within the framework of the Dignity and Proud Plan. This means that we have agreed before and during the reforms on how we deal with the labour market. But there are still a few more things. How's it going? The trade unions say: it is good that we have made these agreements, but we need to broaden them and deepen them. They need to be widened, because we may need to focus not only on labour market consequences as a result of reforms, but also on the labour market in the light of future demand. The question of care changes, which means that we need more people and otherwise skilled staff. They need to be deepened, because we can say to each other that we are going to go to the broad functions in that personal service market, but that then the question is how we control it. Is that sufficiently effective? That is why I sat down with the unions, the municipalities and the employers with the question: is it going well in our approach to the labour market? Should we not move towards such a widening and deepening, because the demand for work in the care sector is changing so much that we are dealing with many more issues? Maybe we're dealing with deficits. Perhaps we are faced with the fact that the number of people reporting for training in health care is insufficient. And then we have to talk about the wider issue, Mrs Bergkamp, about whether the sector is attractive enough. Should the sector compete with other sectors or should we make much more regional agreements? We are working on a Health Pact to see if we can link training and providers to ensure that we are closer to it. In short, there needs to be a more common agenda on the labour market of care in the future, not from a few parties, but from employers, workers and municipalities to ensure that we fill this out in a different way. I'd like to make a commitment to this. I have agreed that we will hold a number of regional meetings, together with social partners and municipalities, to look at the state of play in labour market developments and what we could do to make work in the care sector attractive to the future as well. In the days that remain for me, I want to continue to do so and ensure that further impetus is given to it. I'm coming to a final review. I have indicated that, on the one hand, there has been a great deal of change in long-term care, but, on the other hand, there has been no change. We spend 27.7 billion on long-term care in 2017 compared to 27.5 billion in 2013. In 2017, we spend on average €81,000 per person in a nursing home. That amount has increased by around €1,000 each year. In 2013, 116,000 clients with a care package 4 to 10 were included. In 2015, there were about as many. In 2015, 61,000 clients with a high care gravity package were included in the intellectual disability sector, the same number as in 2013. Many changes, sometimes not, but the care, also the long-term, is never finished. For an accessible, new, low-threshold first line, I don't know if it should be called that. Cooperation is more important than competition. The Minister says that this term is incorrect, but I sometimes say that cooperation is the new competition. Effective cooperation between general practitioners, community care, district teams and pharmacies has been initiated, but much more needs to be developed. And yes, the ratification of the UN Convention is nice, but inclusive society is not a policy concept but a matter of implementation. People need to notice and feel it. Citizens who develop their own initiative in a cooperative or non-cooperative way can and should be more supported. We recorded the right to challenge in the Wmo for a reason. But how does that work in practice? Municipalities and insurers can and must together offer care and support across the domains and solve practical problems for people. And indeed, how do we accelerate innovation in long-term care? The care is never finished. I still owe Mrs Voortman a quote from a GroenLinks alderman. I'll just quote Bert Frings. Bert Frings said: "We don't choose a blueprint because I don't care about organizations. I'm interested in people and new ways of working." That is a fine statement that also indicates that municipalities are not only engaged in ensuring the continuity of care, 2015 but are also looking for other ways of working in which people may not always stick to the booths that the Empire invented at the time. This proves that there are many hard-working aldermen working in their municipalities and their local situation, but sometimes also regional, to make the law a success. Finally, I would like to thank the Chamber for its good cooperation with those parties who, after much discussion, recognised the need for reform of care and the changes in care. Long debates prove that good cooperation in politics makes much possible if we continue to join forces. I am very grateful to all those who have been willing to do so in recent years. I have always sought the broadest possible support for difficult but also necessary changes in my view. I will continue to do so in the remaining period. I hope that we can continue this constructive dialogue with all those who wish to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u3	The House still owes you an opinion on the amendment to item No. 31 of Van der Staaij. Let's do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u4	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The amendment notes that the amount for the broad coalition Van Meaningis will be increased to the end. With Mr Van der Staaij, we believe that the coalition is doing a good job and is making an important contribution to a very complex and important social issue. We are talking to the coalition about the multiannual continuation of its efforts. The intention of the amendment is that Mr Van der Staaij wants to produce an oil spill. I can tell him that the cabinet also thinks this is important. I therefore understand the intention of the amendment and leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u5	Before I allow Mrs Bergkamp to interrupt, I am reminded that the Minister has not yet provided an opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u6	I have, but I have a few new ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u7	These are the amendments which appeared during the morning. Is it possible that you will respond to this before the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u8	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u9	I asked a question about my proposal for a debt-relief period for vulnerable young people. These are, for example, young people who come from youth care and homeless young people. Is the Minister prepared to make agreements with the various departments and perhaps also with the municipalities, so that these young people can focus on their studies and only then a payment scheme will be introduced? What does the Secretary of State think of this idea and would he like to implement it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u10	You are confusing me a little, because I thought I had said all the necessary things in the written reply. In any case, I have shown my willingness to discuss this with my fellow departments and with the municipalities and to jointly consider the possibilities. I also sometimes wonder very pragmatically whether the municipality, in cases where there is a debt to various bodies and the municipality wants to do something for young people, could not play a proactive role. She could settle the debt or take over, and then make arrangements with the young person involved. But perhaps that is too practical and goes too far at this stage. In short, I am prepared to look with my colleagues at what we can do about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u11	Speaking is good, but I would also like to know what the outcome of that consultation is. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can inform the Chamber about this before Christmas. I hope, of course, that it will not be left to talk and that agreements will be made, because this subject has been a bottleneck for many years, which means that young people cannot receive training properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u12	I'm gonna do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u13	I have a question about the displayban, because the Chamber has adopted the Volp/Dik-Faber motion. The deadline for a covenant over a displayban has already passed twice. The Secretary of State wrote in the written reply that he would like to come to a covenant in the short term and that he would inform the Chamber accordingly. My question is what does he mean by "short term."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u14	What if I promised to do that in November?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u15	In November of this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u16	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u17	That's short notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u18	That is indeed very short notice. I have a follow-up question. The deadline has already been exceeded a few times. If it does not succeed in November, will the Secretary of State start legislation on 1 December? Something really needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u19	Indeed, I have asked you before when discussing the House: what if? What if it doesn't succeed in coming to a voluntary covenant? We are still in consultation with the parties involved, but if it were not to succeed, I would indeed go ahead with the preparation of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u20	I thank the Secretary of State for the quote by Mr Frings, perhaps one of the best aldermen in the Netherlands, but that aside. I have another question about the block of labour market policy. I thought the Secretary of State said some very commendable things about that. He also referred back to the healthcare agreement, but yesterday we stood with a number of MPs in an action by the FNV on the VVT collective agreement and heard there: we are now fired and then our work is taken over by flex forces. There is now a negotiating result that two other unions have agreed to, but that leads to more broken services. These are things that I do not agree with what the Secretary of State has just said about how important it is for people to have their trusted caregiver and continuity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u21	I find it difficult at the moment to give an opinion on a negotiation agreement between employers and employees, or at least some of the workers. That agreement is still being discussed with the grassroots. I understand that's what the FNV is worried about. They've been made clear. It seems to me to be a good idea to take note of these concerns, and I think that the various supporters should now assess whether or not this negotiating agreement is being translated into a real agreement. It is not appropriate for me to give an opinion on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u22	I understand, of course, that the Secretary of State does not want to take a position during the collective bargaining. However, I do not think this is in line with what the cabinet is saying here about the importance of people working in healthcare. It is against all this flexibility that the colleague of the Secretary of State, Mr Asscher, is now running to hope, and rightly so. The cabinet can't keep this to itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u23	No, and that is why I would like to discuss with municipalities, employers, employees and trade unions how this labour market is developing and what is the question of the future. We need to consider, among other things, the extent to which we need to reduce flexibilisation, in order to ensure that more often the same faces are on the bed, for example. We will certainly take that up in substance, but the Chamber understands my reluctance to give an opinion on a negotiating agreement that still needs to be discussed with the various partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u24	This brings us to the end of the State Secretary's contribution. As far as it is now possible, the Minister now addresses the amendments that have been tabled in the course of this debate. I have a short list. It begins with the amendment to item No. 32. Let me see if the minister has the same list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u25	I'll start at 34; there we have it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u26	That's where it starts. We're just gonna do what you do. We shall begin with the amendment to item No. 34.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u27	The other amendment tabled in the course of the debate may belong to the Secretary of State. I can't judge that like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u28	We're gonna go jigsaw.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u29	The amendment in part No. 34 was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It calls for additional funding for multidisciplinary guidelines for children suffering from type 2 diabetes. Diabetes is a serious disease. We talked about this in the first place. The answers to the questions also state that we need many parties in making a quality directive and indicators, but that it is also in the funding that is paid for this care. Now the argument has been put forward that this is so complicated and has to come from so many groups, that I have to give an extra boost to stimulate and facilitate this development. We do, but with this you open the door to extra money for these patients, while the rates already pay for developing guidelines. So I wouldn't want to do that. We are now helping to accelerate age-related diabetes, but I would not want to go through this immediately, as this group is already being financed in the rates. The fact that we are now adding to older people's lives may mean that money may be available to take the young into account. I would therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u30	I'm disappointed by this. We see that there is a problem with the elderly, but why should we not extend this group to young people and children? The Minister just made an argument, but this was no problem with Mr Rutte's amendment. Moreover, my amendment sees that we are mapping out what the problem is. The registration of children with diabetes is not yet in order either. The sector has started to do so and has been able to provide limited time and resources, but not long-term. I would very much like us to be able to map this group through the amendment. Then we can develop a standard of care for it. I found a suitable cover for that. I hope that the Minister, looking at all this and looking at Mr Arno Rutte's amendment, will reconsider her opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u31	It is precisely in the context of that amendment that I would like to say that we have a great deal to do with multidisciplinary directives which are sometimes difficult to implement. Since I now leave it to the Chamber to raise additional funds for the profession involved in this disease, that profession will have more room to concentrate on these guidelines. I don't want to do that double-up. It's all necessary and serious, but we're also paying for it. It's in funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u32	Secondly, we have the amendment in respect of item No. 36 in place of the amendment to item No. 36 in order to replace Amendment No. 36 in order to replace Amendment No. 36 in order to replace Amendment No. 36 in order to replace Amendment No. 36 in order to replace Amendment No. 36 in order to replace Amendment No. 36 in order to replace Amendment No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u33	This is about the emergency services and the problems that arise there. That is what we discussed this morning. Mr Rutte modified his amendment in the spirit of what we were discussing this morning. It's not about this project, because it's funded by ZonMw, but if the results of this project can be implemented in the rest of the Netherlands, money will be made available. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u34	We shall then come to the amendment on item No. 37 in place of the amendment to item No. 37 in order to replace Amendment No. 37 in order to replace Amendment No. 37 in order to replace Amendment No. 37 in order to replace Amendment No. 37 in order to replace Amendment No. 37 in order to replace Amendment No. 37 in order to replace Amendment No. 37 in respect of
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr Van der Staaij rightly states that an open back for a child can have very serious complications. That's actually right. It is nice if we can do something about this, for example by closing the open back in the womb with a 3D printer. Through the availability contribution academic care I enable UMCs to develop new treatments. UMCs decide for themselves what promising research they focus on. I note that the LUMC has already decided to use its research resources for this type of research. I will bring this signal to the attention of the umc's about prioritising the research, but I do not recommend the amendment to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u36	I understand the Minister's administrative point that the UMCs are about it themselves and that a certain contribution has already been made available for this purpose. It's a limited amount now. By adding a small amount, you can put it in a gear so it could be there by 2021. Are there no opportunities to push it out of some kind of pot, precisely because existing lobby or civil society organisations will say much less for this group: we will add a sum?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u37	We've got funding. This applies to the multidisciplinary directive, and this applies to the contribution to the UMCs so that they can carry out research. When priorities are set, it is very difficult for things to be added separately. We talked extensively about Huntington this morning. That's actually the same thing. I am certainly prepared to look at how this investigation is going and whether there is any reason to do something at some point. Now that the LUMC itself has decided to spend research money on this, I suggest that we get that started first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u38	I have here the Leijten/Van Gerven amendment to item No. 32, but that might be for the Secretary of State. I would also like to say a few words about Amendment No 2. 33 in place of Mrs Agenma's amendment No. 19 is for the Secretary of State. Is the Secretary of State capable of doing so for the second term? Mrs Bergkamp, do you have a question about the Minister's last point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u39	On the basis of the Minister's undertaking, I would like my amendment to item No. 30 withdraw.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u40	The Bergkamp amendment (Doc. 30) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. 32 rightly stresses the importance of good public mental health care by municipalities. I share that heartfeltly. Precisely municipalities can by proactive action prevent people from slipping and then having to recover. Since 2007, the municipalities have been responsible for public mental health care through the Wmo. They also received funds for this. That hasn't changed at the Wmo 2015. The essence of the Wmo is that these resources can be used in such a way that concrete action and client-oriented work and not the indications are at the forefront. By laying this place down, this is also better possible. Precisely municipalities have the opportunity to target vulnerable people who do not come to a WMO window on their own and see what these people need. They ensure that their debts are cleaned up, that they have or keep a suitable roof over their heads, that good agreements are made with corporations, that they receive support in finding work and that they receive health insurance. Mrs Leijten even had good examples in municipalities that do so. Prevention gets attention. The Rotterdam example also shows this. We want to integrate her call into what we are starting around the path of confused people and the future of protected living, with which people are already active locally and regionally. It is largely about the same people and the same organisations involved. Public mental health care and prevention are therefore strongly reflected in this. We also want to get a more comprehensive picture of the public ggz in the municipal domain, so that we can still address drivers if necessary. In view of these activities and the opportunities that the municipalities already have with the existing Wmo, I would advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u42	This amendment does not just fall out of the sky. It has to do with the practice as we have heard it. This amendment is designed to incorporate it into the Public Health Act, which is what it fits in very well with the regulation and also to indicate the regulation. The explanatory statement states that the GDPD must carry it out and that it takes the lead. There are 25 GGD regions. That would fit well with the D.A.'s office and that kind of thing. That is why we have tabled this amendment. We have also done this in order to give greater certainty to the municipalities as to how this should be understood and implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u43	That is all in the explanatory statement to the amendment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u44	I'm a little concerned with the Secretary of State's explanatory statement. He says public health care is in the law, in the Wmo. However, I hear from the field and from GGDs that this is not properly secured. I'm not asking for extra money. I'm just asking for a better order. That is what the amendment is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u45	Maybe that's why I'm offering a more integral picture of how things are going and taking it along the path around confused people and the future of protected living, where there's a real heart of the matter. That seems to me to be a better way than moving a title from one law to another, because it would then be better. It is anchored in the Wmo and municipalities have the opportunity to do so. We could get an even better idea of whether it takes place properly in practice and link it to the path of confused persons. Then there can be no misunderstanding that it is a task of the municipalities, which is enshrined in the existing law. If we need to improve practice, we need to do it. Moving a word from one law to another is then a less practical approach. I don't think we're getting anywhere with that. I'm afraid I'm sticking to my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u46	I would like to point out that it is wider than just confused people. That's part of it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider this proposal for the future? I understand his current position. If, however, the debate with the field and with the municipalities would show that the order proposed in this amendment would be better to record it properly, would the Secretary of State be prepared to consider it in any case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u47	Never say never if regulation can help shape something better. My point now is that it is a task of the municipalities and that it is anchored in the Wmo. Let us appeal to city leaders where we think they should do more to solve a number of practical problems. In that more integrated image that we are going to obtain in the municipal domain to address directors, the question will undoubtedly also be raised as to whether the order requires anything else. Let us really make sure that we mean something to the people, not only to the confused people, but also to the tasks that the municipality has in the context of the WMO rather than to say here that a word needs to be changed. Because that doesn't really help. I always have a willingness towards the future, but I want municipalities to carry out the tasks they have in the field of public mental health. Indeed, not only with regard to the confused persons, but in general. The municipalities already have this task and they must be called upon to do so if things are not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u48	The amendment in part No. 33.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u49	We've discussed that a lot. Mrs Agema and I do not disagree that the rights of principle must be well anchored. I would like to make sure that we have an ongoing debate on what level of regulation that should be regulated at. Originally, it was governed by the principle law. This Chamber then said that she thought the lake belonged to an AMvB. That's what happened then, and they're stuck now. It is not the case that this creates fewer rights for people. The texts are the same and they are partly incorporated into the law and partly into the AMvB. I want to try. We agree on the principles. They're in the regulations, whether it's the law or an AMvB. We agree on that. Mrs Agema and I agree on that and the Chamber agrees on that. They are laid down in laws and regulations, albeit at a different level. Would it not be a good thing if we agreed on this point in substance that it does not matter for the rights of people where it is regulated? Then perhaps that point of depoliticisation could also be raised here. I understand how Mrs. Agema attaches to it. She also knows how much I attach to it. But if I also say now that it does not matter at what level of regulation it is regulated, perhaps we should not worry about this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u50	I have not heard an opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u51	I don't recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u52	So I'm really worried. So if it didn't matter where it was arranged, we wouldn't have a problem. But we do have a problem. We do have a problem two years after the introduction of the Wlz. The right of residence is not properly secured. Otherwise, we wouldn't be having debates about pee contracts. Otherwise, there were no institutions that would say one-sidedly to their residents: we only shower on Sundays. I got an e-mail from Patrick yesterday. He's a Wlz-indicated resident. He writes: "I would like to comment on your text. That was about the care plan. It's called my support plan. I was surprised at Mona Keijzer's interruption. She didn't understand why right of residence had to be arranged, because that was all good. Everything in my support plan now has no guarantee whatsoever. Anything that's in there can be taken out in no time. I've been there several times. It doesn't matter if my signature's underneath it. It has also happened several times that they suddenly want something in it, but not me. They came back a lot back then. I didn't agree. But that's how you get cases like in Maassluis. It is therefore important that these right of residence be established." The Secretary of State can insist that, where he has arranged it in lower legislation, it works. But we know, two years after the introduction of the Wlz, that it is not. If he leaves my amendment to judge Chamber, we'll still settle the right of residence at legislative level. In that case, institutions must come from the right of residence if they are not to give the people the right of residence they so badly need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u53	Whether these right of residence is in the law or in an AMvB, they always apply, to the institutions and to the people. If in a place no good agreements are made about how someone should be cared for, then it does not matter whether it is in the law or in an AMvB. Then we'll have to have that discussion with each other. The inspection should intervene in the absence of proper care. Whether or not care plans should be taken into account. There is now no obstacle in the legal text or in the AMvB text to intervene on that point. I can't judge the situation you're describing. Maybe it's not arranged properly, but that doesn't change if we write it down in the law instead of in an AMvB. No, if something is not going well, we must ensure that this situation is restored and, if necessary, monitored and maintained. It does not help if you regulate it at a different level of regulation. Mrs Agema, I would almost like to appeal to you now that we agree on the principles on this point that they are in the laws and regulations. Let us ensure that practice improves and that we can maintain where things are not going well, and we can intervene with the instruments we have had a whole debate on. That's what this is about. It's not a matter of rules. It's a matter of doing. We've set the rules. You can rely on that. You can derive rights from that. Now it is about improving practice where things are not going well. Then you will find me at your side to fight for that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u54	In concrete terms, you are asking Mrs Agema to withdraw the amendment. If she doesn't, you'll stick to your judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u55	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u56	Too bad. We are here two years after the introduction of the Wlz and we are having debates here on water contracts, which would not be possible if the right of residence were simply properly regulated. They're not. They're arranged in an AMvB we couldn't even find ourselves. That's how bad it is to find. The point is that people who have their right of residence and that we do not have to have debates here like last week, or the week before, about puddle contracts. The AMvB is actually very vaguely formulated. Let us be clear: "discuss," "at least pay attention to," that is really something other than a right. Because it is so vaguely regulated, because it is regulated under a care plan, there are institutions that still keep it on one-way traffic. That's why it's badly arranged. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to leave my amendment to the Chamber of Justice, because it will then be settled at legislative level before the end of the year. Then it's done and then it's over. After two years, the Secretary of State should really agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u57	I understand that you are maintaining the amendment despite the appeal of the Secretary of State. Mrs Keijzer, do you have a question on the opinion on Mrs Agema's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u58	Yeah, I have a question about the input. In the e-mail Mrs. Agema read, my name was also mentioned. Patrick was the person in question, if I remember correctly. I would like to invite him to e-mail me as well, because I want to know if this is done properly. Mrs Agema's amendment states exactly what is contained in the further legislation, namely that agreements should be made on how the insured person is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u59	You can also have the discussion on this in the second term. What is your question to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u60	My question to the Secretary of State is: is it correct that, if you do as Mrs Agema proposes, you will not have a discussion as it is now? Can't an institution just go into Patrick's house and say, "Yet I want it a little bit different?" I think what the Secretary of State says is true. I would like that to be confirmed, because I do not want people to think that it will be better arranged when it is not. Mr President, you know me; I am a lawyer from home. If anything can be arranged better, I'll be the first to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u61	Mrs Keijzer is right. The text contained in that principle law has been incorporated one-on-one in the AMvB, including the wording contained in Mrs Agema's amendment: at least when discussing subjects mentioned in paragraph 1, attention will be paid to... Then there will be a whole range of subjects that you can regulate at law level or at AMvB level. So that doesn't make any difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u62	I haven't been interrupting much...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u63	I see Mrs. Agema is so angry that I'm giving her the chance...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u64	...you really need to allow this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u65	I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u66	Yeah, I hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u67	I'll give you a chance to interrupt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u68	The debate of the Wlz is part of this legal process. At that time, there were inter-rupt debates. At that time Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Otwin van Dijk said that we had all the care life plan. We have said, even in the debate that we had with the legal process and which is part of it, that it would come under the care plan. That was the motivation to remove it from legal text level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u69	No, we are not going to start a new debate on this. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u70	That's the big difference. That's why, two years after the start, nothing has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u71	We are not going to start a new debate on this. No way. You may ask a supplementary question, Mrs Bergkamp, and I will stop!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for this opportunity. However, I would like to make a point about what Mrs Agema says. Have we settled this properly and fully in the General Measure of Governance? Or is it true what Mrs Agema says, namely that it should be regulated in the care life plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u73	The Secretary of State, at the latest, and I will close this matter. You can come back to that yourself in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u74	At the time, the text of the bill on principle law was incorporated into the AMvB one-on-one. It states that when discussing the subjects mentioned in paragraph 1, which is also mentioned in Mrs Agema's amendment, attention will be paid to... then there will be a whole range of subjects that were first in the law and now in the AMvB. It makes no difference to the legal situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u75	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I suggest that we proceed immediately with the reply from the side of the Chamber. May I ask Members to discuss or listen to Mr Van Gerven's input in the hallway?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u76	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a few motions. Heavy paracetamol, minerals and vitamins can be found in the package, says the Zorginstituut. That's supposed to be $120 million. If the heavy paracetamol has to be paid by the patient himself, it costs him six tens a year. Then you can say: €60, what are we talking about? On top of that, however, the cost of minerals and vitamins is added. Soon you'll be talking about €200 a year. That affects hundreds of thousands of people. That's another blow for the rheumatic patients. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Zorginstituut Nederland advises to remove heavy paracetamol, minerals and vitamins from the basic package;]] [[noting that it transfers €120 million in healthcare costs to the elderly and chronically ill every year;]] [[Whereas, following the removal of physiotherapy and antacids, for example, this is yet another measure affecting this group;]] [[calls on the government not to follow the advice of the Dutch Health Institute to remove heavy paracetamol, minerals and vitamins from the basic package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u77	Then there's the pharmaceutical industry. The Minister says, "I'm playing fast." But when we look at the pharmaceutical industry, you have to see that greed prevails there. What does the Minister do about it? She does nothing against thousands of doctors in the Netherlands who encourage doctors to prescribe wrongly. She hasn't tightened the Drug Prices Act, so we miss 250 million a year. What is it doing in the price negotiations for very expensive medicines? It's not visible. Sovaldi of the company Gilead, a remedy against hepatitus C, allegedly costs €1,000 per pill, while the cost is €1. We don't know exactly what it costs, because the minister can't say it from Gilead, a company that, per month, doesn't worry, makes 1 to 1.5 billion profits. A month! That's as much as Philips in a whole year. We pay that with our premiums. We have to do something about that, don't we? Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the exercise of its supervisory function, it is essential that the Second Chamber understands the actual costs of medicinal products, the net prices, the size of the margins obtained and the destination of those margins;]] [[noting that such data, such as for example in the case of the "lock" medicinal products, are not sufficiently transparent;]] [[noting that the pharmaceutical industry is abusing its dominant position by demanding secret agreements which are not in the public interest;]] [[expresses the need for transparency from a democratic point of view in the case of sluice medicines;]] [[calls on the government to stop such secret negotiations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u78	Strangely enough, Mr Van Gerven and I share a great deal on this subject. We are both deeply concerned about expensive medicines and about the excessive power of pharmaceutical companies. We would like to do something about that. I totally agree with him. But if the transparency demanded by Mr Van Gerven means that the medicine is not available to patients in the Netherlands, is he prepared to bear that consequence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u79	The question is whether we should all take the Netherlands first, but also allow other countries to be held hostage by an industry which itself decides that a pill should cost a thousand times the cost. Anyone would say that's unacceptable. One of the ways to get through this is transparency, making it public, so that we can see what the actual price is. We should, of course, also have an idea of the actual cost. No one is opposed to a reasonable profit based on the cost and a reasonable margin, but to the profit we are talking about. If we allow this system to continue, let us actually dictate the law by industry. We should not do that, and that is why I want a statement from the Chamber that we are not going to do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u80	I fully agree with Mr Van Gerven that we are in a very difficult package with regard to pharmaceutical companies and their monopoly position. The Minister also acknowledges this, and she has written very harsh words about it this week, including in the international context. We have recently seen that the Healthcare Institute considered a remedy that it was not sufficiently cost-effective, because simply the costs were too high, and that it would not be included in the package and would therefore not be available. It was a cure for lung cancer. At that time, the Minister had two choices: do not include in the package or negotiate in secret. As a result, the medicine is now available to patients. So once again, if the consequence of the transparency he requires is that resources are not made available to patients, is he prepared to bear that consequence? For the rest, I agree with him, but does he want to bear that consequence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u81	We must tackle the pharmaceutical industry. We should not tolerate the lack of transparency when we negotiate pharmaceutical prices. This will require government restraint and regulation. Otherwise, we won't get there. Now the market fails and the minister bows. That is the reality. Mr. Rog says the patient is the victim. So we're gonna have to go other ways. Let's take Sovaldi as an example with that extreme pricing. One possibility is to go down the road of the compulsory licence; France has threatened to do so. In this way we can ensure that we do not pay a price on the back of the contributors and the patients whose money goes directly to the shareholders, when we need that money very much for good care and affordable premiums.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u82	Mr Rutte, last but not least, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u83	If I understand correctly, Mr Van Gerven does not give a 100% response. He thinks there are other ways. If there are, we must certainly continue to walk it. But if, at the end of the day, it becomes clear that the course he wants to take will not make the drug available, will he accept that consequence because we want more transparency in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u84	We should not bow to industry and not be satisfied with what is now lying. One of the ways of breaking that is transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u85	There is no point in this, Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u86	Look at what KWF's done. They have tried in their way to get a little transparency about what is happening in Europe. That is the way we must continue. I realize that this is not an easy way to go, but it would be good if the Chamber were to give its opinion, so that we can send the Minister with the message to try other ways. I have called a compulsory licence as one of the possibilities of getting those resources available for a reasonable price for patients. Due to the high price of the hepatitis C medicine, not all patients who need it may receive it. That is a figure that we say: that cannot be true, we should not accept. I will continue my speech with the transgenders. We believe that this should be included in the package. Now there's still a problem with breast implants. The majority of the House has said that it is unfair not to solve this problem. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a majority of the Chamber considers that breast implants should be reimbursed in the case of transgenders;]] [[noting that the consultations on this matter between the Zorginstituut Nederland and the field were stalled;]] [[whereas this is a clearly defined group and costs are therefore manageable and, moreover, relatively limited;]] [[calls on the Government to also reimburse breast implants for transgenders from the basic package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u87	Then there's a motion on consultants. The question after six years of Minister Schippers' policy and four years of State Secretary Van Rijn's policy is who is now better off with this system. In any case, we would like to have an overview of the consultants and consultants who have raised thousands and thousands of euros in care money. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a great deal of money is being wasted on unnecessary health advisers and consultants who provide expensive advice to healthcare organisations to save as much as possible and how they can declare maximum;]] [[Considering that advisors and consultants earn money from healthcare organisations in which directors do not know how the care works, while caregivers suffer from bureaucracy, lack of sufficient colleagues and increasingly have less time to provide care;]] [[Notes that the best advisors in the care are the clients and caregivers who know what is needed and that hiring advisors and consultants should be reduced as much as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that health care institutions make clear in absolute and relative terms what they are spending on health advisers and consultants in the annual reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u88	My fifth motion can actually be summarized in one sentence. It's a charge against the calculator that's being handled in the care system and we have to get rid of it when setting indications. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Centre provides guidance on care (CIZ) and municipalities through the Wmo 2015 provide indications based on hours and minutes;]] [[believes that it is completely undesirable that, for financial reasons, indications should be given on the basis of hours and minutes, so that people do not always receive the care they need;]] [[points out that indications should be based on the need for care and not on the number of hours and minutes set for austerity purposes;]] [[calls on the Government to establish the indication in the Wlz and the Wmo 2015 on the basis of the care needs of people and to ban indications at hours and minutes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u89	I think that, taking stock of the policy of this cabinet and of Minister Schippers and Secretary of State Van Rijn in particular, we can see that the high point of faith in market forces is over. That market would be good for everyone; I don't think so. When you talk to the people, they say: the care has been taken away from us; the health insurance companies increasingly determine where we are going. People say that there is also more and more hassle, and it has all become much more complicated. Look at the policies. What kind of madness is that? There are 61 policies, while people say: make one good basic policy for everyone. That's what people need. The affordability of care is also at stake. The Minister throws out all sorts of figures, but what is the reality of everyday life? That people can't afford their own risk anymore. That 800,000 people have to make a payment arrangement with the insurers. That there are almost 300,000 people in the penalty regime. What do you mean, affordability isn't at stake? That is the reality for which the Minister seems to close her eyes. The Minister says of his own risk: that is very social. She said that in the paper the other day. That seemed like a provocation towards the SP. Of course, the SP has always been against its own risk, but also the PVV, the Labour Party, GroenLinks, the CDA and the Christian Union all say: lower with that own risk. But the Minister says: nothing is wrong, and as far as I am concerned, it can continue to rise; it is now €385, but the cost of care will continue to increase and so will the risk itself. Apparently, the Minister doesn't see anything wrong with that heading in the direction of €500. I think she simply has no idea what is really happening in society and how that own risk is hanging around the neck like a millstone by an awful lot of people. So we have to get rid of our own risk. There's a cure for that: the National Health Fund. It eliminates its own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u90	Mr Van Gerven, you may speak for as long as you like, but that all depends on your colleagues' time for other budgetary discussions. I just said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u91	I know, Mr. Chairman. With this National Health Fund, at least one of its own risks will be eliminated. I highly recommend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u92	In my opinion, this National Health Fund is mainly a national reorganisation fund, because people will be very busy organizing everything differently, moving people, changing systems and new contacts. This is all time that cannot be spent on concrete care, on contact with people and on connecting. Doesn't Mr Van Gerven think that's just a shame?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u93	Your conclusion is not correct. The Labour Party has actually said in its draft electoral programme that there must be one insurer and one policy that operates at regional level. That's how I get it. Fine, because that is also what we intend to do with the National Health Fund. What we do not want is for competition, market forces and the changeover circus to continue. We have to get rid of all the money going into expensive consultants and get rid of all the bureaucracy. Let us spend the money on good care and on eliminating one's own risk. That's what we're suggesting with the National Health Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u94	You may respond briefly and then you will discuss this in the next few months in election time but nicely in rooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u95	Fortunately, everyone is talking about their own words, because our input was very much about how to re-establish the connections in the care. We have said that the market creates competition while we want cooperation. We want people to be listened to and we want quality and cooperation. This is not achieved by letting go of a very large reorganisation plan on the care of which the Court of Auditors says: don't do it, because people are already screaming about the rules. So in what way does the SP want to join our plan to return care to cooperation and the equivalent dialogue between a doctor and a patient? What specific proposals does the SP have for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u96	Look, the Labour Party is in a trap, because it is in a coalition for which market forces are sacred. Because she sold her soul to the VVD. But in its election programme, the Labour Party simply proposed to change the system. It calls for a change in the system. I would therefore like to say to the honourable Member: just look ahead. Let's put this shit behind us and choose the future and for one National Care Fund, without the health insurance companies who can leave without market forces and focus on cooperation and a regional organisation of care for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u97	Mrs Bouwmeester is probably going to say that she has not received an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u98	Exactly. I would also like to say very briefly that I note that we have been able to achieve an adjustment in favour of people and of cooperation, while you have been talking on the side for four and a half years. That's one. Secondly, we have a story about people, for two days and a lot of debates for a long time, and you have a very long story about systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u99	Mr. Van Gerven? No response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u100	No, that was a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u101	Mrs. Klever, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u102	Mr Van Gerven makes a very strong plea to eliminate the far too high own risk. That's what the PVV wants. The PVV also believes that this is far too high and that it should be abolished, but Mr Van Gerven's solution is a system change that will cost many billions and take many years. The PVV has a simpler solution, which we can realize faster. If we eliminate our own risk and cover it by abolishing development aid, we do not need a system change. We can fast-track that. How does the SP feel about that? Will the SP, together with us, eliminate its own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u103	No, because we have a better proposal. The SP proposes to abolish this system of the Health Insurance Act and the health insurance companies and to introduce a better system that saves billions. With this billion-dollar saving, we are paying for the elimination of our own risk. We therefore share the objective of eliminating our own risk, and we are also sympathetic to the amendment tabled by Mr Van Dijck. We will certainly support that. However, to arrange it structurally, we find our coverage better. We want to take good care of our own citizens, but we also have an eye for the needs outside the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u104	Obviously. Mrs. Klever, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u105	I welcome the support for the amendment, but that is, of course, only a small step towards reducing one's own risk. It is a pity that the SP does not take part in the effort to eliminate its own risk more quickly by covering it from development aid. You can only spend money once. The SP spends it twice in this way and that is a bit of a shame, because the Dutchman pays the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u106	You can give your appreciation of the SP's response in your own term. Mr Van Gerven, has your input been completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u107	No, just reacting. Mrs. Klever says the SP pays double. That's not true. We shall see all this when we pass on the electoral programmes, because we have included cover for the elimination of our own risk. Then it will appear that this is not a double-cross, but that we really save by changing the system. This will generate a great deal of money, which will enable us to eliminate this risk. I'll continue with a rounding. I will do that by looking at the hospital kitchen and the reaction of nurses in the hospital that we have surveyed. What was the conclusion? It is worrying that half of the participating nurses experience a deterioration in working conditions due to an increase in bureaucracy and increased workload by too few colleagues. It is also worrying that of the participants who have been working in hospital for more than ten years, no one indicates that the work has become more fun after the introduction of market forces. It is up to directors, policy makers and health insurers to take serious account of the people who do the work they show off. The gap between the picture presented and the harsh reality of under-employment and alienation in the workplace must be eliminated. That was the nail-hard conclusion of the people in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u108	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has just spoken extensively about nursing care, but when I hear the problem from blacklists to wet contracts, I really wonder whether the Secretary of State is genuinely of the opinion that it is going in the right direction. Can he give further details on this point in his second term? Our elderly people, the people who built the country, deserve no less than all nursing homes become of the highest quality. The amendment I tabled with Mr Volp must also contribute to this. By getting better grip on the floor to share the best examples, the quality sector-wide can also be increased. The fact that the right pill is on the bedside table is, of course, the basic condition for quality. Can the Secretary of State now guarantee that medication safety in all nursing homes is currently in order, including in the houses on the blacklist, and that it is safe there? When is it really absolutely safe for the three providers who are still not fully in order? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that our fathers and mothers, grandpas and grandmothers are no longer at risk of getting the wrong pill? Since the sector did not emerge, the Healthcare Institute must now come up with a quality framework before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u109	I have the impression that Mrs Volp wishes to place an interruption on the previous subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u110	Perhaps Mr Potters has already seen some non-verbal reaction to his speech, but I would like to ask him: has he listened to the State Secretary's speech? Because in my view, the Secretary of State does not have to explain again in the second term what he is doing. He made it quite clear in the written reply that we are not ready and that a great deal is being done. I would like to know from Mr Potters when the answer from the Secretary of State is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u111	I've heard the answers, too. I've also heard that there's a lot of work going on to improve it. I'm talking about a value judgment. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if he thinks it's going in the right direction. On the one hand, a number of nursing homes go off the list, but on the other hand there are three more. Last week we had a whole debate here on puddle contracts. We still see bad examples every day. I just really want to hear from the Secretary of State if he thinks it's going the right way. What we're doing, I've heard too, but I just want to hear a value judgment, a standard. Are we going to take a step forward with the nursing home sector? I'm not convinced yet. I'm not saying that the good things aren't done, but I'm not convinced yet. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u112	The Secretary of State also gave his input to this assessment of value. Maybe it's a suggestion to the Secretary of State that he's making a spin out of his input and reading it again, but that value judgment was in it. I am afraid that we are doing exactly what we do not want to do, namely to take advantage of each other in indignation, while we need to cut back on politicisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u113	I need an opinion from the Secretary of State on where it's going. We hear bad examples every day, week in, week out. We hear good examples, but also bad examples. I'd like to know if we're really on the right track. Not only do I want a process answer on what we are doing, but I also want to hear the deep conviction that we are now taking a step forward with the nursing home sector. If we have to have a debate on this every day, Mrs Volp, we will do so as far as I am concerned. Mr. Chairman. The fact that the right pill is on the bedside table is, of course, a basic condition for quality, as I have already said. I think it is important that we take this step forward. Finally, I have a question. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State about the Potters motion regarding the personal funding experiment. The VVD strongly supports the scaling up of this experiment, but I'm actually curious what the Secretary of State thinks about it. Does he agree that we should take a step forward in the coming years if the experiment succeeds well and that we should increase the scale? It would be a shame if these experiments were left alone in a nice experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u114	Mr. Chairman. Many thanks for the comprehensive answers both from the Minister and the Secretary of State. I just realized that this is probably the last time that this Minister of Health is doing the budgetary treatment. You never know for sure, but I think it's her ambition to do something really different. That is why I would like to thank her very much for the great work that has been done in this ministry over the past few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u115	The Minister doesn't know anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u116	Yes, the Minister is surprised. Then I've said things that don't add up, but I think it could just happen. It is very good that the Minister concluded her speech with the words that she is proud of Dutch curative health care. That pride is totally shared by the VVD. We should be proud of what is happening in our healthcare system. We should be proud of how we organised it and how we dealt with all the challenges. But I'm glad this is being shared. It has to change faster than it is now. Our society is changing. We're getting older. It is really necessary that we take the step, as the Minister so nicely said, from the waiting room to the living room. The VVD will continue to monitor all these developments and, where possible, continue to drive them forward, hopefully with the support of the Minister and the Secretary of State. We feel that very much. Finally. When it comes to the future of Dutch health care, it is important to recognise that we are on the right track together. Things will always go wrong. It will always be exciting to keep care available and affordable for everyone, but let us really pay attention to the fact that we continue to look after each other, that healthy looks after sick, and let us be careful with all kinds of experiments that radiate that care can be free. Care isn't free, care costs money. We will have to deal with this very carefully, now and in the future, precisely to ensure that we have good care available and affordable for all of us not only today, but also in 10, 20 and 30 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u117	Mr. Chairman. I have the necessary motions and little time, so I'll start reading the motions immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many elderly people are now unnecessarily and unnecessarily long in emergency care (Seh) and that there are problems in organising good (temporary) first-line residence of elderly people after hospitalisation or deterioration in the home situation;]] [[noting that the first-line residence contract has been completed by health insurers in mid-November and that it can then be identified where such first-line residence is or is not adequately regulated, and whether there are sufficient places;]] [[Whereas in several regions of the Netherlands there is too little flow of older people due to capacity problems in the ER, as regards hospital beds, first-line beds and palliative care care;]] [[Calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before 1 December 2016 about where white spots are in the first-line care (including in emergency situations) for vulnerable elderly people;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the field by region, to make an emergency plan for vulnerable elderly people based on the availability of appropriate care for older people as soon as possible and to inform the Chamber before 1 January 2017 how it is organised by region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas almost one in three Dutch people are struggling to understand and organise their own health care;]] [[Whereas many patients can use support in preparing for a consultation with a doctor, understanding the information given by the doctor during a consultation, and organising the care in the follow-up to a consultation;]] [[Whereas the Social Support Act provides for independent customer support;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with the independent customer support organised in the Wmo, to consult patient organisations on how to implement this in curative care and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Volp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-44]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Bouwmeester. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u118	I have a question for Mrs Bruins Slot, also to make it clear to myself. Isn't it just the job of the healthcare professional in whom the patient is consulted to provide information and discuss it with the patient in an understandable way? We have talked a lot here about watching and listening money, what room should be for. This is what we are putting up a huge amount of money with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u119	No, this is really something else. In the first period of time, I have talked about this in detail. This fits in with the beautiful projects, for example around the co-patient in Erasmus MC and the healthcare buddies who also work in other hospitals. It supports patients in difficult situations. That's what this motion says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u120	And the CDA doesn't see the possibility that hospitals that are already doing that can shape that themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u121	The problem is that there are a number of hospitals that shape this. You will find that because of lack of funding or organizational capacity or the impossibility of training volunteers, it is badly off the ground. If research is carried out into what the patients themselves think of it, it shows that they think it has enormous added value. Given that it is such a success, but that it is difficult to get it off the ground, Mrs Bouwmeester and I have tabled a motion to let the Minister, together with the patient organisations, see how we can move this forward. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that meaning issues do not only play in the final stages of people's lives;]] [[Whereas patients at any age may be confronted with diseases that may raise questions of meaning;]] [[Whereas provision should be made for the discussion and discussion of meaning;]] [[Whereas mental caregivers play an important role in this;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate structural funding for care purposes in addition to palliative stage meaning,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Fat-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u122	Mr President, in the last recital, I said 'can fulfil', but for those who record, I say that it must be 'filling'. It's also in the motion I have in front of me on paper. Now, my final motion. We've been running into waiting lists in mental health for two years. The Minister states that she has taken new steps to really get rid of them. I think that the answer shows that it is going to take a lot of time again and therefore I would like to look at another possibility. That's what the next motion will look at. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are waiting lists in mental health care and several surveys are taking place there to gain insight into the waiting lists;]] [[noting that many people are now waiting for ggz assistance and care;]] [[Whereas some people urgently need ggz care;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with health insurers and healthcare providers, to organise for each region to have a game distributor who, in consultation, identifies the best appropriate care and treatment, determines which healthcare provider should provide that care provider and monitors that that healthcare provider actually (directly) implements and continues to implement it, and may, if necessary, use perseverance power to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr. Chairman. Two final questions. I thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to work on the suggestion of the CDA to look at the law of association and that he will also discuss this with the Association of Dutch Organisations Volunteers and the NOC*NSF. I would like to make it clear to him that, for example, it is a question of whether a board can direct several associations. That's what I wanted to give the Secretary of State. I thank the Minister for her truly positive response to the CDA's action plan to reduce drug shortages. I am very confident that the Minister is now going to take real action and come forward with measures in the short term. The Minister will send a response to the Chamber. Is it prepared to indicate the time frame within which they can be introduced in the measures it will describe? I am asking for this, because it is an urgent issue that must finally be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u124	Then I give the floor to Mrs Keijzer from, once again, the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u125	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by reading out a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities is a policy starting point;]] [[Considering that there is a concept General Measure of Governance based on the Equal Treatment Act based on Disability or Chronic Disease and that it does not sufficiently reflect the desire of people with chronic illness or disability to be able to participate in society;]] [[Whereas the general commentary on the accessibility standard contained in Article 9 contains ingredients, including general standards, for the further development of the concept of AMvB, and that this may give the field a handle;]] [[calls on the Government to involve this general commentary in the further elaboration and, in consultation with civil society organisations, industry, government and institutions, to adapt the concept of the AMvB and to link it to the various implementation plans, and to inform the Court thereof by 20 December 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the final evaluation of the experiment showed a low level of concern that 700 rules were submitted which could be deleted according to the field;]] [[Whereas a large number of these rules are the responsibility of the Secretary of State;]] [[Whereas, as a result of the final evaluation, hours can be released for care, attention and nursing activities;]] [[calls on the Government, the rules that have been put forward by the field and which fall under the responsibility of the Secretary of State, to delete and to inform the Chamber before the summer recess 2017 how many hours have been spent in practice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are dysfunctional drivers in the care of the elderly and disabled;]] [[noting that in the event of bankruptcy and in the case of foundations, a civil administrative ban may be imposed;]] [[considers that this should also apply to dysfunctional drivers in care for the elderly, disability care, youth care and ggz;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a corresponding legislative amendment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NZa study shows that healthcare providers who do not meet the cost of transport now resolve this by substitution within their overall budget or choices with consequences for clients;]] [[noting that the NZa is going to investigate the rates of transport to and from day-to-day expenditure in long-term care and that this research is going to be part of a wide-ranging long-term care cost study;]] [[Considering that, from 2019 onwards, tariffs may be adjusted in the policy rules and that such surveys tend to run out;]] [[considers that this is too long a period;]] [[calls on the Government to step up its investigation of transport tariffs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Krol and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-49]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-50]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer and Mr Potters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-51]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u126	I have one more question that has not been answered, namely what is happening now with the overhead for the implementation of the Wmo and, in fact, with youth care. In the old law it was still 10%, but I cannot escape the impression that it is much more now. Is the Secretary of State prepared to find out? My final point. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering my questions about municipalities that do not comply with the Social Support Act, and in particular municipalities that have simply abolished simple domestic assistance as a tailor-made provision. This is contrary to the law, and it is now clear from the answers given by the Secretary of State. Thank you, too, for the statement by the Secretary of State, Mr Delors. It is strange that we should be talking about this at all. If anyone is reporting for support, research should take place, the so-called kitchen table discussion. I am not yet ready with this Secretary of State for his own contribution, unfortunately. Contrary to when we talked about the law and the abolition of compensation for chronically ill people, he said that support was mainly directed at minimum and low middle-income people. There is still a way to go, because this leads to major problems for people who sometimes have a month's salary in additional care costs. When the Secretary of State just concluded with thanks to those parties who supported all reforms, I am referring, in particular, to the Wmo and the abolition of the concession, I was glad that I and with me the CDA were not mentioned, because unfortunately the problems are not yet over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for the answers they have given. The answer was very satisfactory, and that is always nice when a Member of Parliament is last on budget. The starting point of the Labour Party in this budget is to ensure that people get the care that suits them. This requires an equivalent conversation, understandable information and then the offer needs to be adapted accordingly. It is therefore a matter of taking the patient as a starting point and not as a closing point. I told you before, only you're going faster, but together you'll move on. That's why I made a broad call for more cooperation. There are two other points that we would like to stress. That's why I'm filing two motions. The first motion is about costs for one's own care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is compensation for the cost of own risk for people with high care costs in relation to their income;]] [[whereas not everyone is aware of all the possibilities for compensation, which makes people wrongly unable to receive compensation;]] [[Whereas access to compensation for the individual risk should be readily available to all;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that municipalities, as part of the income window, set up one central and accessible point where people can benefit from all forms of compensation for healthcare costs, and actively point out them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bouwmeester and Mr Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u128	When we spoke here in the Chamber about the abolition of compensation for chronically ill people and the abolition of compensation for one's own risk, there was actually no problem. I argued at that time that this would mean a huge bill, especially for low and higher middle incomes. Is the PvdA going to mean something in that or is there only a window where people can put their worries down? As you know, you don't pay bills when you're worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u129	The essence of the motion is that there is a lot of compensation, but there is also a mismatch. There is tax compensation, there is local compensation and there is compensation through the care allowance. That's a long line, but a lot of people don't know that. In my previous life I was a social counsellor and I pointed out to people that they could use all kinds of jars if they couldn't get around. We want to make that easier for people. If you set up a whole compensation circus, make sure people can find it. They must be pointed out so that they can be helped and compensated. In the long term, we want to eliminate our own risk, so that you can also abolish the compensation circus, but that is not settled overnight. That is why we want to offer people this intermediate step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u130	I'll try one more time: what can we make up for mismatch?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u131	I suggest you ask Mrs Keijzer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u132	You're pushing the ball! Mrs. Keijzer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u133	I'm just moving the ball to the PVV! Let's see if it can come up with a nice Dutch word! I hear Mrs Bouwmeester speak from her experience as a social counsellor. With a social counsellor, minimums often end up. This fits with the Labour Party, but also the VVD is under this motion. Has Mrs Bouwmeester discussed with the VVD that this is really only for minima or are we going to do something for minimum incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u134	All sorts of assumptions are made. I can tell a very warm story about social counselors. I can tell you what they're doing and who they're there for, not just for minima. Mrs Keijzer probably means well, but her assumptions are wrong. The VVD is indeed under this motion. That means we both think it's important. People with high care costs in relation to their income must be compensated. That compensation is there. Care is not necessary, but people do not always find the compensation. Then let us improve on that. That's the intention of the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the purchase of (medical) aids does not take sufficient account of the ease of use, wishes and lifestyle of the insured person;]] [[considers that it is important for quality and acceptance that patients are explicitly involved in the development of these quality standards;]] [[considers that the quality standards registered at the Quality Institute and the demand and needs of people should lead the procurement process by health insurers;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that a patient has sufficient space to opt for a blood glucose monitor appropriate to his circumstances by ensuring a wide range of options by category based on official quality standards;]] [[invites the Government to examine which other medical devices may be subject to this procedure and to notify the Court of Justice thereof before 1 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bouwmeester. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u135	I will briefly explain this motion. For us it is about the patient's question, so his wishes and his needs, are the starting point for providing care, not the final point. The point of contention among other tools is now that the question is who decides what you get. This motion, the discussion we had in the Chamber and the very good answer given by the Minister, show that you must be closely in line with people's wishes. Make sure that their questions are ultimately the starting point! Of course, this has to remain within a certain bandwidth, but let's turn the system around, so that people and people are thinking about it and not from systems. I will say it one more time: this is my last VWS budget treatment, after ten years in the Chamber. Of course, I am going to work very hard until 22 March, when there is a new Chamber, but there is only one moment when you can thank everyone in plenary. In addition to the people in the country, I would like to thank you as chairman, but also, of course, our highly esteemed clerk, who is going to say goodbye a little earlier than I am. I would like to thank him very much on behalf of the entire Labour Party for all the hard work with all these MPs, who are all very easy and always very accommodating. Many thanks and appreciation! The same applies to the executives, because it is also the last budget discussion of this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u136	Thank you very much. I don't read what I found in "compensatory," because that's all about really weird technical terms, electricity and stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u137	I'd just say "bad connection" in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u138	I think that's very good. We're gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u139	Mr. Chairman. It is good to see how we, as President-in-Office of the Council, help you not to use English terms where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u140	As little as possible!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u141	I too would like to thank the directors for their written and oral reply. Over the last two days, we have talked in a predominantly good way about quite difficult issues. I am very pleased with the Secretary of State's commitment to start his contribution today so that he will develop a vision of longer life. It is important to take a broader view of how to move from a more value-driven old-age approach to a society that responds to the fact that we all live longer and which focuses on the fact that longer lives are also longer healthy lives. I very much welcome the support for the amendment that I have tabled on behalf of Mr Potters of the VVD in order to achieve a better alignment. I said almost'match' of what is being developed in practice, in order to ensure that it is validated and tested and then applied more widely in practice. It would be very good if, in the short term, it became clear how that would be developed. It would also be worth a sweet thing to us, if that is ultimately the standard on which, for example, an inspection will be carried out. What works in practice and what caregivers and nurses can do must indeed be substantiated and extended. Mr Dik-Faber briefly spoke about the display ban and the covenant to do so. December is a nice month anyway, but I can't wait until December. I think we've really waited long enough for it. I therefore consider the motion to be a stick behind the door, but I assume that we will get white smoke from the Secretary of State. Several spokesmen have raised an important issue today. Mrs Keijzer has tabled a motion. On behalf of the parties who have supported an important amendment to this effect in the ratification of the UN Convention, I would like to table a motion that might make it even more stringent. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the course of the examination of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a majority of the Chamber expressed its support for the obligation of general accessibility;]] [[noting that there is a concept of General Administrative Measure for consultation in the field on the basis of the Equal Treatment Act on the basis of Disability or Chronic Disease;]] [[Considering that the Internet consultation shows that the concept of the AMvB does not seem to be in line with the principles of the UN Convention, thereby making society more accessible to people with chronic illness or disabilities and thus does not seem to meet the wishes of a majority of the Chamber who, in the course of examining the UN Convention, has expressed support for this standard in order to achieve general accessibility and has indicated how this standard should be met;]] [[calls on the Government to consult patient and client organisations with a view to achieving an AMvB that they support that which is necessary for people with chronic illness or disability and which meets the wishes of the Chamber majority as laid down in the Acts of the Second Chamber, and to send this AMvB to the Chamber before 15 December 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Volp, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u142	The Alliance for the Implementation of the UN Convention, to which all relevant organisations are affiliated, has drawn attention in its response to the General Measure of Governance to the general comment, the general comment, which is attached to the UN Convention. Is it also Ms Volp's intention that the VWS Ministry, in consultation with this institution, should speak along those lines, including general standards, about a new General Measure of Governance? First of all, I would like to ask this because Mrs Volp said that her motion is a little sharper. I want to know what that's like. Secondly, it has been from the very beginning that I started last night, because we are all so incredibly concerned about general accessibility. If Mrs Volp's answer is yes, I think after the Secretary of State's ruling, we should see if we can all do it all together in one motion. I don't care who's the first signatory. Ultimately, the goal must be the most important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u143	I think that the operative part of the motion makes it very clear that this must be done in accordance with the people who it concerns. The concept of AMvB must be supported by the field. If the alliance indicates that it needs it, I assume that this motion, with its compliance with this motion, will respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u144	Were you at the end of your contribution or would you like to say something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u145	I have responded to the questions on this motion. I see two directors who are far from ready at the end of their term as directors in this cabinet. I think they have done a good job in recent years and thank them for their cooperation. It was the first budget for me. Maybe it won't be my last. I would also like to thank you, the support and certainly Mr Teunissen for the pleasant cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u146	I have one more practical question. Mrs Volp said that the Secretary of State came in December with a response to the displayban. At what time is the Secretary of State going to give white smoke about the displayban?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u147	I have heard the Secretary of State in such a way that it will be clear to the Chamber in November that the motion will be carried out, so a covenant. If that is not the case, he has indicated in response to a follow-up question from Mrs Dik-Faber, he will start legislation on this. That means that that clarity, that white smoke, must be there on 1 December, but the deadline was in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u148	That's what I heard. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u149	Mr. Chairman. In any case, I wish Mrs Leijten, whom we must miss today, well-being. I forgot to thank her for her support yesterday. She was the only one who confirmed my contribution. She said that the level of revenge with which the good proposals for care for the elderly were all removed after the disappearance of the tolerance of the PVV was appalling and that they were political games. I thank her for that, and I cry for it, because it is. Every time, we're back to square one. Each time the wheel is reinvented. I refer, for example, to the amendment on item No. 23 that calls for a quality institute. We already had that in the agreement and it was implemented. We have the Zorginstituut Nederland. The amendment is therefore completely superfluous, but it is nevertheless given a Chamber's ruling. But, yeah, you probably always get that when you're coalition. We have just had a violent debate on the right of residence. I'm not giving up on that. I gave Patrick as an example, the e-mail he sent yesterday. A few months ago, I was visiting him. He lives in an institution. He's spastic and can't use his hands. The setting doesn't want to brush his teeth, so his teeth aren't brushed. It's those examples and those visits that I'll never let go of. We now know, two years after the entry into force of the Wlz, that the right of residence does not work. Patrick would like his teeth to be brushed. That is not what is happening in practice. Mrs Bergkamp has taken the initiative to tighten things up with a motion that I have co-signed. In this we aim to ensure that residents are given the last word when it comes to right of residence. I think that is an improvement, but I continue to believe that the right of residence should be regulated at legislative level. There are all kinds of details that we have arranged in the Wlz at legislative level, such as the indication, the message traffic or the AWBZ-wide healthcare registration. They can also be in an AMvB. There are certain things that it is important that they are in the full light. These are, for example, the right of residence. Hearing the debate, it has also given the impression that right of residence can be included in a conversation in a care life plan. As far as I'm concerned, that's wrong. So I'm gonna keep fighting for this. On the five concrete examples that I gave in the first term of juggling with figures by the Secretary of State, he gave no response whatsoever. So I come to the conclusion that he agrees with me. I think that's interesting, too. Staff, further training, rules, overhead, driver test, etc., everything was already arranged. We see that the Chamber continues to file motions. I'm kind of done with that. We've taken care of everything. We shouldn't want everything in our own name now, in election time. I am very sorry about that. It doesn't help people either. For the rest, on to the elections, on to sufficient staff and on to Prime Minister Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u150	Mr. Chairman. Three out of four Dutch want a reduction in their own risk. One in five Dutch people sometimes avoid care because of the high own risk. The Minister keeps ignoring this instead of doing something about it. Our amendment to reduce one's own risk is not recommended. If there is a will, the reduction of the own risk for 2017 is, of course, feasible, if necessary through an emergency measure. But the minister doesn't want it and thus ignores the wishes of many patients. Too bad. I hope that the House will take a different view on this and support our amendment to reduce its own risk by €100 at least next year. E.R.'s out of order. Crucial emergency care cannot be provided in all cases. An overall plan of action will only come in May 2017. I think the Minister can do more and the Minister needs to do more. First of all, it is necessary to prevent all or part of the closure of emergency services. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the acute care sector currently has problems;]] [[Whereas a comprehensive plan to address the problems in the acute care sector will not be available until May 2017;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent all or part of emergency services from being closed down until the overall plan for acute care is available,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u151	The Minister lists seven places where information on the disclosure of hospital quality and price information can be found. That is far too fragmented and unclear. I'm really wondering which patient knows how to find this. I believe that the government should pool and make public a selection of relevant and reliable information. The information is just there. The NZa, IGZ and the Quality Institute have indicators per hospital. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that patient-friendly indicators on hospital quality and price information are now fragmented and unclearly made public;]] [[Considers that understanding of quality and price information is of great importance in order to improve the patient's position;]] [[Considers that pooling indicators on patient quality and price information is necessary for finding and clarity;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that a bundled information card is made available per hospital with the scores per indicator,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u152	Mr. Chairman. I am not discontented, because I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment that saves me a motion for a resolution that she will be discussing with the Huntington researchers and the Huntington Campaign Team, who are far away with a solution to this debilitating and terrible disease, which unfortunately still has a great taboo. We are therefore looking forward to reporting for Christmas. How wonderful it would be if this would lead to a breakthrough. I am also satisfied with the Minister's response to her eHealth plans and the funds released. We hope that within three years we will succeed in making the objectives set into reality. I also welcome and welcome the Minister's written commitment to engage with the Central Committee on Human Research (CCMO) on the possibility of a patient representative on medical-ethical review committees. I hope for a positive result, because according to D66, the patient's voice must not be missed. I would like to receive a written reflection on germ-track modification for the treatment of the Embryowet, including advantages and disadvantages and the possibilities the Minister sees for this. I have not yet seen it in the written reply. I understand that, but I'd still like to get it. I spoke yesterday about the regional plan. The Minister indicated that she would like to focus on knowledge sharing between innovators rather than on one innovation region. That's fine. They can also be several regions, because these differences, of course, but I would very much like to see a real exchange now, so that all the fine local initiatives are no longer isolated but are grouped together in long-term regional agreements. In this way we can see what the results will be if you can make good agreements with each other. I'd like to hear the Minister's gonna be tough on this. I look forward to answering the questions about PrEP. The Minister would come back to this in the second term. Finally, I would like to table a motion on an issue raised by my colleague Mr Bergkamp. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a survey among users of medicinal cannabis shows that they do not always come up with the current range of medicinal cannabis from the pharmacy;]] [[noting that patients can contact the Office for Medicinal Cannabis (BMC) if they benefit from specific variants that are not currently (yet) offered;]] [[considers that it is important that users who do not comply with the current variety are aware of the possibility of bringing this up with the BMC;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the BMC to engage with medical cannabis users on a regular basis so that the species offered can meet the patient's needs as much as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u153	I have just received an amended amendment from Mrs Voortman and Mrs Dijkstra on healthcare interpreters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u154	For those who follow us at a distance: that is the amendment to item No. 42 to replace that in item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u155	Yes, indeed the amendment to item No. 42 to replace that in part No 42 13. The Minister has already said that she wants to compensate those interpreters for the first six months. Then people still have time to learn Dutch. After that, people have to do it themselves. This amendment provides more money. Apart from what we think about that, we do not agree with that, I noticed that after that six months D66 considers those interpreters so important that D66 is apparently willing to sacrifice the 8.7 million for ICT in hospitals, whereas D66 itself has fought for it and that is important for eHealth and for transparency in ICT systems in hospitals. Am I getting that right? I'm so surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u156	We've gone looking for a good cover. Then you must always see where the possibility lies. I think that ICT is very important in hospitals, but we also think that this issue is very important. It is about status holders who need care and where there can be a great deal of error if there are misunderstandings about the care that is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u157	For years, D66 has argued for more focus on ICT in hospitals and for more eHealth. These are all things that are incredibly important to be able to provide good care to everyone in this country. Then it really surprises me that interpreters for status holders who have stayed here for more than six months and thus had the opportunity to learn Dutch, but who apparently have not done so in time, are considered more important than that fundamental component of ICT in hospitals. It's hard for me to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u158	I just gave my answer. I can repeat that. By the way, Mr Rutte says that people have had six months to speak the language so powerful that they should be able to have a conversation with doctors themselves. That seems to me to be extremely ambitious. Mr Rutte understands that himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u159	Doesn't Mrs Dijkstra find it extremely regrettable that this cabinet, which says that people should learn Dutch as soon as possible, has still not implemented the Sjoerdsma motion about one Dutch learning from day one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u160	I find that extremely regrettable, Mrs Voortman. I'm glad you reminded me of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u161	Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union has the floor. No, I'm going too fast. I call Mrs Bergkamp of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u162	Mrs Dijkstra and I are from the same party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u163	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u164	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to vulnerable young people. The Secretary of State is talking about a debt-relief period. We're looking forward to his letter coming up on that before Christmas. We hope for a positive result. It was just as intense yesterday between Mrs Agema and me, but I am glad that we found each other today in a shared motion, because we have the same goal in mind. I'll read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Chapter 6, Healthcare Plan Review, of the Decision lists long-term care a number of topics to be discussed in the care plan;]] [[considers that the care plan should be seen as a contract;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Chapter 6, Article 6.1.1 of the Decision is not only discussed but also guaranteed, and that the client and/or family has the last word in this regard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u165	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, for a number of years, concerns have been expressed regarding the adjustment of tariffs for the carriage to and from day-to-day use of wheelchair-related clients and children;]] [[noting that in October 2016 the Dutch Healthcare Authority (NZa) conducted exploratory research into fares for daily and daily transport and advises on follow-up research;]] [[considers that making an efficiency impact, where possible, is an understandable step as long as this does not create bottlenecks in care;]] [[considers that the cost of transport from the healthcare budget should not be at the expense of the care because of a reduction in the amount of money left;]] [[Calls on the Government to implement the NZa's recommendations and to carry out follow-up research by mid-2017 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Volp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u166	I think I've tabled a motion of this kind. Maybe we can see if we can put them together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u167	I think it is a very good suggestion to take a look together to see if the motions have the same effect. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u168	If these motions were the same, wouldn't you have been aware of them when Mrs Keijzer filed them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u169	I missed that for a while, Mr President, otherwise, of course, we would have done that already. We have just done so in motions for resolutions on the UN Convention and the disabled, but this has passed each other for a while. We sometimes drink a glass of water in the hallway. I'm just gonna use that as a reason. My third motion is next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet reduces the maximum own contribution in the Wmo, in particular for multi-person households under the AOW age;]] [[Whereas the group of single chronically ill who are unable to work as a result, below the AOW age, is currently not compensated;]] [[considers that an exception should be made for this group;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of reducing the maximum own contributions for single chronically ill people under the AOW age,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u170	Why not people who have AOW? Why are they excluded? I agree that the regulation, of which we still have to get its effects, has been sought, so to speak. I always thought it was crazy that people with an AOW shouldn't be included. Why didn't you choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u171	I understand Mrs Keijzer's question. We have joined the cabinet's proposal. That is what our proposal is in line with. The cabinet is based on people with a partner. We say: why not also people without partners? That's actually the reason. Of course, we are always open to motions and ideas to broaden it, but this is why we have chosen to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u172	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both directors for their reply, both orally and in writing. Because of the time I start filing my motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Breast-feeding Platform and the National Breast-feeding Board conclude that a timely reference to the lactating person is crucial in preventing mothers from giving up breast-feeding earlier than they wish;]] [[considering that lactation should be available for any mother who wishes to breast-feed;]] [[Considering that the opinion of the Care Institute from 2015 looks at maternity care in a broad sense and does not specifically address lactation care;]] [[calls on the Government, the Health Institute, to seek advice on the funding of lactation care, taking into account at least the option of reimbursement from the basic package and the option via the consultation offices,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u173	I've got three more motions. The first one is about the displayban. I know that the Secretary of State has already made a commitment on this, and I appreciate that very much, but there will also be elections and a legislative process will take a long time, hence my commitment to a ruling by the Chamber with Mr Volp. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Rebel/Dik-Faber motion (32011, No. 41) adopted a covenant with the supermarket industry for a tobacco product display ban;]] [[Whereas the deadline for a Covenant has already been missed twice;]] [[Whereas, in order to reduce tobacco addiction, it is important that tobacco products disappear from sight, especially in places where children and young people come;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare legislation for a tobacco display ban in the absence of a covenant on 1 December 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the involvement of mental caregivers in the palliative phase is currently insufficient, inter alia because it is often unclear for patients, their relatives and other caregivers how mental care is financed in the first line;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to ensure that spiritual guidance is not reimbursed in the palliative phase as otherwise it would be at the expense of other forms of care;]] [[Whereas Agora recommends that structural funding be provided for mental caregivers in the palliative phase;]] [[calls on the government to examine how mental care can be financed structurally at the palliative stage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that Fiom and Siriz received a grant in 2017 for the national impetus for prevention and support of unintended pregnancy and for knowledge sharing in this field;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to use the amendment funds beyond 2017 in the areas of prevention to support, but that it is not yet clear which organisations will be financed;]] [[Whereas Fiom and Siriz play a key role in preventing unintentional pregnancy and supporting unintended pregnant and young parents and in promoting this expertise throughout the sector;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the financing of Fiom and Siriz in the years 2018 and beyond, in the spring 2017 note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Volp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-64]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-65]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u174	Finally. I have tabled several amendments. I understand that there may be political discussion about amendments, but at least there should be no political discussion about the best care for young people with age-old diabetes. It is so sad that this occurs in our society. There are just opportunities to improve care for them. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Unfortunately, the minister didn't advise it, but I'm hoping for support from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u175	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many medical specialists are either free-established or otherwise not employed;]] [[noting that it is undesirable for medical specialists and medical-specialist companies to remain separate from the hospital organisation;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to oblige medical specialists to work as an employed person,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Observed that in 2015, municipalities had a total of 1.2 billion left over from the care they carry out under the Youth Act and the Wmo;]] [[noting that there are large differences between municipalities in how much they are left or lacking;]] [[Whereas municipalities must have sufficient budget to provide proper care to their inhabitants;]] [[calls on the government to investigate the reasons for the total surplus of municipalities of 1.2 billion, at least in the following cases:]] [[whether municipalities have made too high their own contributions;]] [[whether the distribution model should be adapted;]] [[whether there are people who did not call on care when they could have done so on the basis of the Wmo;]] [[whether there are people who have not received adequate care;]] [[and then to look at what solutions can be offered,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Rutgers' research shows that abortion has become more taboo;]] [[Whereas this is an undesirable development;]] [[Whereas it is important that women make choices about their own bodies without a taboo atmosphere;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a plan of action to remove abortion from the taboo area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-67]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-68]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman, Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Wolbert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u176	I would like to say a few words about one amendment, namely the amendment on interpreters for accelerated inflow status holders. Yes, everyone has to learn Dutch.That is why, as GroenLinks, we also advocate that all asylum seekers receive one Dutch lesson from day one, but these are status holders who have been rushed in as a result of family reunification. We do not think it is realistic to say that they should be able to speak Dutch after six months in order to be able to conduct the interview. If you say that this money is no longer needed after two years, you also ignore the fact that in two years time there will still be accelerated inflowing status holders. I have now tabled an amendment with a different coverage. I am open to all kinds of suggestions, because I am particularly concerned that we need to get this right. Good communication between caregiver and client is very important. That is what the amendment is about. We are also under Mrs Volp's motion on the UN Convention. We really think that the Secretary of State should do more in terms of general accessibility. What we have now is simply not enough. Finally, I would like to say that we are also under a motion by Mr Van der Staaij. It is about an issue on which we agree in this case, namely abortion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u177	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers. I do not want to increase the tension too much, so I would like to move as quickly as possible to the motion on abortion, which has been signed both by Mrs Voortman and by me. That is, of course, a special issue on this sensitive subject. Especially if it is November 10th, you have to be completely careful. After all, everyone remembers of course 10 November 1925 when a proposal from the SGP to lift the mission to the Vatican...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u178	The Christmas motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u179	Yes, the Christmas motion. That motion received unexpectedly broad support and that led to the fall of the first Colijn cabinet. In this respect, the cabinet was warned of special occasional coalitions on 10 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u180	We both remember it vividly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u181	Christmas night, yeah. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Government has announced an evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act and the intention is to send the letter of order to ZonMw in December;]] [[invites the Government to send the draft contract letter to the Chamber no later than 1 December 2016 so that the Chamber can exchange views with the Government in advance on the issues to be examined,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u182	I have a second motion on the grounds of care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas figures from the Central Statistical Office show that one in seven people providing care are overburdened;]] [[Considering that carers feel, to a large extent, not sufficiently supported by their congregation, despite the fact that the rights of the carers are firmly enshrined in the new Social Support Act through the Van der Staaij/Otwin van Dijk amendment (33841, No. 87);]] [[calls on the government to examine whether and how municipalities implement their mission to support tailor-made carers;]] [[calls on the government to increase awareness of the rights of carers and to encourage municipalities to make real work of supporting carers, pending the results;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Tanamal. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u183	I co-signed Mrs Keijzer's motion on the implementation of the UN Convention and the AMvB, and the motion by Mrs Dik-Faber on the timely clarification of Fiom and Siriz after the deadline for the 2013 amendments from the Van der Staaij and others amendment. and the Voortman amendment. Finally, I would like to highlight two amendments that I tabled earlier. The amendment in part No. 31 is about the financing of the coalition From Meaning to the End. I thank the Secretary of State for his positive response to that. He leaves the judgment to the Chamber. It is very important that citizens speak about the end of life in good time. This is a good collaboration between organisations such as Agora, the Humanist Federation and the Dutch Patient Association. Thank you again for the positive response to this amendment. The amendment in part No. 37 is about 3D printing in the prenatal treatment of open backs. The Minister was positive about the content of this amendment, but negative about the fact that there should still be money, regardless of the subsidy schemes that are already in place. I understand the administrative argument, but I would like to put the amendment to the vote as an expression of our political desire to speed up the investigation that is already under way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u184	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS sincerely thanks the directors for the very comprehensive answers, both in writing and in the first term. I am sorry, by the way, that I could not be present at the first part of the answer today. People's alarms can be an important condition in order to remain able to live independently with a feeling of safety. People want to, and the government wants to. In those situations, it is not a luxury, but rather a necessity. That is why an independent assessment of the general practitioner is needed. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas elderly people with a need for care and chronically ill live at home more often and longer;]] [[Whereas alerting persons makes an important contribution to ensuring safe living at home;]] [[Whereas it is not always clear, per health insurance provider and municipality, how the compensation for personal alarms has been set up;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to determine independently whether a person needs an alert;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with VNG, Health Insurance Netherlands and other interested parties in order to establish a uniform basic system for obtaining personal alarms for medical and/or social reasons, including the role of the GP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u185	50PLUS has a pressing question to the rulers. Prevention is vital for young and old. There is still so much to save, and here too, the cost goes for the benefit. More and more activities are being undertaken. The alliance aimed at the elderly is therefore good news, but given the growing group of older people, an extra boost is needed. Is it really enough what the rulers want? I hope they can convince me, otherwise there will be an amendment, which is already ready. In particular, a medication assessment is almost literally vital for the risk group............................................................................................................................................................................ Apart from the welfare aspect, there can be very high costs of care to prevent accidents and other medication-related hospitalisations. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas some health insurers have placed the medication assessment outside their own risk;]] [[Whereas a medication assessment for older people in the risk group makes an important preventive contribution to health and well-being and can also lead to significant savings in healthcare costs;]] [[Whereas this effect increases as more people receive a medication assessment;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the costs and revenues of all elderly people in the risk group on medication assessment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u186	Finally, a motion on the shortage of HBO nurses. Much has already been done in this area, but the deficit remains and that is worrying. That is why I am tabling the next motion on behalf of my colleague, Mr Bergkamp. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a structural shortage of nurses in inpatient care for the elderly, despite campaigns to combat this;]] [[Whereas many initiatives are being developed to increase the number of nurses in the coming years;]] [[Whereas all negative publicity about nursing homes does not contribute to a positive picture of this profession;]] [[calls on the government, in its consultation with the social partners and other parties on strategic labour market policy, to explicitly involve the negative perception of the profession of nurse in the media and to consider how this can be reversed;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u187	We look forward to the study on the surplus of 1.2 billion in the municipalities. We will certainly talk about this later. Our concerns about the nursing homes have not been removed yet, but they will be discussed at another AO. In any case, we have great appreciation for all employees. 50PLUS welcomes the focus on loneliness. Thank you for the commitment to support a coalition in the coming years. Finally, I want to talk about my neighbor. Not my neighbor at home, but the one in the room. Opposite my chamber is the clerk Teunissen. I would like to thank him very much for all the support he has given me in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u188	Then all the way to the end. This is the day of the carers. I thank them very much. For them I bow deeply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u189	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Krol's fine words about the carers and the thanks to the committee griffin. I would also like to thank the directors for answering the questions and their commitment over the last four years. Personally, I had hoped to participate more often in debates on care. That's where my heart is. I hope to do more about this in another Chamber. In the context of time, I shall confine myself to one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the report on Hospital Care for Migrants shows that the quality of care and patient satisfaction in patients with a migrant background is systematically lower;]] [[noting that this report also shows that investment in culturally sensitive care can lead to significant savings;]] [[calls on the Government to identify with health insurers and municipalities whether sufficient culturally sensitive care is being purchased and, if necessary, to encourage health insurers and municipalities to achieve adequate supply of culturally sensitive care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XVI-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u190	That brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. 35 motions have been tabled. Last year it was 53, so we go forward or backwards, depending on the perspective from which you look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u191	I'd be happy to give the floor to the Minister for the rejoinder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u192	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input in the first term and for the pleasant cooperation we have had all this time. To those who are already happy with my departure, I say never cheer too soon, because then it can be very disappointing. At least I'm not working on it myself. Mr Van Gerven refers in his contribution to the research of the SP among nurses. In my first term, I have already gone into that. To a Member of Parliament who is constantly on the interrupting microphone when I quote an investigation whose results he does not like very much, to ask whether it is scientific and independent, I would like to say: look at your own research too. In the first place, I have cited a study that I do once every two years among workers in health care. Here, people are called upon to respond to the view that market forces and competition have a major impact on the staff working in the care sector. In this survey very direct questions are asked, such as this one: do you also notice that there is an unnecessary length of treatment? I don't think this one's gonna pass a freshman's test from the average college. This investigation is not that independent. I also notice that the piece is full of quotes. It seems more like the research data have been searched for in the quotations and the theories than there has been an objective determination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u193	It was to be expected that Mr Van Gerven would like to say something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u194	Yeah, this is entrapment. The Minister disqualified 1,120 people who responded to their consciences. Of course it is an indication, but one of the results is that almost 100% say that it has deteriorated and that the joy of employment has not increased since the introduction of the market forces system, which the Minister is in favour of. Well, that's a big deal to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u195	I do not disqualify those who have responded, but I disqualify the independence of the SP in questioning these people, as do the questioning used in the study, the presentation of the results and the conclusions drawn from them. The Van Gerven/Leijten motion in part No. 38 asks the government not to follow the advice of Zorginstituut Nederland to extract heavy paracetamol, minerals and vitamins from the basic package. I haven't gotten any advice yet. That's still in the concept phase. Then it goes first to the parties involved. Patients' associations and treatment providers may respond to this. So there's no advice yet. I am waiting for that advice and I will, of course, inform the Chamber in good time for the general discussion on the package. I advise against this motion. The Van Gerven/Leijten motion in part No. 39 states that transparency from a democratic point of view is also necessary in the case of sluice medicines and calls on the cabinet to stop secret negotiations. This choice is not without obligation, but Mr Van Gerven's explanation is. If I do what this motion asks, there is a possible consequence that we do not have these medicines for our patients. So let's talk about the backs of those patients who don't have access to them. Another possibility is that we pay the grand prize. This doesn't do any service to the health care costs and to the contributor. In the construction of the motion, the policy pursued is underlined. I am not at all happy with the pharmaceutical system we have now, but the Netherlands is 1% to 2% of the world market. Mr Van Gerven gave an example of the medicine against hepatitis C. That is being brought to a world market. In some countries, where there is no negotiation, we see that patients do not receive this medicine, because it is not affordable. Yeah, we need to change the drug system. I put in a plan for that. I'm working really hard on that. I do not think we have much of an opinion on these statements by Mr Van Gerven. However, if I finally have to choose between a situation where a patient can get that medicine, and one where he can't get it, then so far I've chosen a situation where he can get it if I'm able to get that price down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u196	That's why the verdict is on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u197	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u198	The consequence of the SP proposal is not that the patient should not ultimately receive the medicine, if, of course, it is just a good and efficient means. The question is, however, whether there are no more roads to Rome in the attempt to do something about that price. Has the Minister made every effort to get that price to a normal level? In some countries, for example, Sovaldi has achieved a price of one hundredth of the price paid in the Netherlands. In Egypt, the price is much lower, to give an example. We shouldn't just let this go. If we continue to follow the Minister's policy, we will never get rid of it. I would like to emphasise that with that motion. We must get rid of this insufficiently transparent situation. Those negotiations must be made public. And of course we have to get rid of that price. Maybe the Minister can say something...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u199	Mr Van Gerven, if we now vote on every motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u200	Mr President, I am about ready. I would like to add one more sentence to my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u201	I would like to say something, Mr Van Gerven. It is not intended to have another debate on every motion now. That's really not the point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u202	Look, the Minister is responding to the motion. This invites us to respond; that is inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u203	Certainly, but not in the form of a new debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u204	Sometimes such a reaction takes the form of a debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u205	Well, not as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u206	That's inevitable. Perhaps the Minister could go back to the compelling 'compulsory licence', as it is called by an expensive term. Can it respond to the path of the mandatory licence? That might be a solution. This could perhaps be a step further in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u207	I think it's very noncommittal. Mr Van Gerven is also taking the risk that this will be at the expense of patients. And it's really not just a risk. Mr Van Gerven himself mentions the remedy Sovaldi. Is that all over Europe on the market? No, it's not. Is it possible to obtain all over Europe for these diseases and those serious diseases, as we have arranged in the Netherlands? I can tell Mr Van Gerven that this is not the case either. He can now make a comparison with developing countries, but if he has looked into this, he knows that there are very different arrangements for these countries. So there is no western, developed country that gets that price down without price negotiations. In fact, there are many countries where these medicines are not on the market. There are a lot of countries in Europe that I am in contact with, where a lot of our medicines we have secret agreements on are not on the market. I don't want to run the risk of our patients not being able to have those drugs either. But I don't want to pay the grand prize either. I wouldn't pay that grand prize personally, but it has to be paid by all the people who pay the premium. So I think this is just a really dangerous motion. If I stop such secret negotiations, a high price will have to be paid. I therefore strongly advise against this motion. In the next motion, in part No. 40, the government is also asked to reimburse breast implants for transgenders from the basic package. I told the Chamber that the consultation with the Transgender Association, the Dutch Health Institute and the insurers unfortunately did not lead to a common outcome. I have said that I am working on a subsidy scheme and that I will come back to the Chamber later on. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u208	Could the Minister please explain what this subsidy scheme means? What does she have in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u209	It is my intention to look at whether I can work out a subsidy scheme, not from the health and package logic, because that is where we ended up on... but from emancipation logic. Then I have defined a much stronger and much easier arrangement for us to organise. The road we've been on before, it's jammed. I am committed to sticking to those package criteria as well. So I'm choosing a different angle here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u210	The outcome is the same as the outcome that is meant by the motion, if I understand the Minister correctly. Can the Minister indicate the deadline for this? I assume that the grant scheme envisaged by the Minister falls within the scope of the VWS Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u211	I'm working on that grant scheme. I need to get this money around, so I think that whole tombola's going around the spring note. We will try to get it done at that time, so that we may or may not be able to make a proposal to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u212	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u213	At the request of Mr Van Gerven, I propose his motion (3450-XVI, No. 40). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u214	In the motion in part No. 41 the government is invited to ensure that health care institutions make clear in absolute and relative terms what they spend on health care advisers and consultants. We are trying to reduce the administrative burden. I am really busy with professional groups, but also with institutions and hospitals, who sometimes go crazy about everything we ask them to do and what they all have to keep up with. I would like to make the point that we all want the people who work in healthcare, the care professionals, to spend their time on their patients. We want them not all to spend time on things other than patients. A number of institutions sometimes fail to do so themselves. You can say that in that case they have to hire more people who are going to make the change. Often, however, this is more expensive than hiring people who know how it went in other institutions and who tell you how best to do it. Eventually, it can be more efficient and cheaper to get that knowledge out of the open. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u215	The Secretary of State is dissuading the motion. It says that external experts sometimes give good advice and that they sometimes have knowledge that the institution does not have. We also know the examples of the Antony Hospital, where manuals are ready for upcoding within the hospital. With this motion we want to identify exactly what is being done about external advice and external hiring by healthcare institutions. I would remind the Minister, for example, of the Roemer standard that we apply within the ministries. It also looks at external hiring. It would be good if we really were to spend care money on care and if we had a good understanding of what is happening in healthcare institutions in that area, because we have many examples where things are going wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u216	An institution that does upcoding does something that isn't supposed to. It does something that a supervisor has to intervene on. To write that down a little bit to externals, I find it rather easy for that institution. That institution should make a proper and proper declaration. It must declare for the care that has been provided and not for care that has not been provided. It's not just unethical, it's just not allowed. I want a supervisor to work hard on it and act when that happens. Keeping lists of all kinds of things is going to get us all in trouble, while there are all kinds of institutions that do not go into this area at all. I'm really against that. Mr Van Gerven said that I wouldn't mind if the own risk went to €500. It bothers me that this is being said between the nose and the lips. The Central Planning Bureau has said that costs will rise so fast that their own risk will rise to €500 if a minister comes after me who does nothing at all and lets everything go. This is linked to each other. I've been doing everything I can for six years to keep costs from rising. I will do everything I can to ensure that care is delivered in a sensible and economical way. So I will do everything I can to keep the risk as low as possible. I would therefore like to make the point made by Mr Van Gerven. Then we have the motion in part No. 44. This calls on the government, in consultation with the field, to draw up an emergency plan for the care of vulnerable elderly by region, starting from the premise that appropriate care is available to older people as soon as possible. Before 1 January 2017, the Chamber should be informed of how this is organised by region and the Chamber should be informed of where the white spots are located before 1 December 2017. The dates contained in this motion are completely unfeasible. I really do not know how we should respond to that. This motion is therefore actually impossible. Furthermore, I believe that there is a looming error in the motion. This motion calls on the government to draw up an emergency plan for each region. This case must be resolved as soon as possible. I do not want to say to all the parties who are actually on the team to solve the problems: take it easy, because the government is making a plan for you. No, I want everyone to get out of their seats in a hurry and make a plan. This motion is therefore quite impossible for me. I am prepared, however, to give the Chamber for the Churches an overview of the main lines of action showing what acute care has been contracted and what that looks like in the Netherlands. This concerns emergency aid and the first-line residence. On the basis of that outline, I will then give an assessment of what is further needed to resolve this not only at national level but also at regional level and what the parties should do. However, health insurers simply have to buy in. It is their job, their duty of care, to ensure that the entire acute chain is in order. I'm not taking over their work. What I can do, however, is give the Chamber a sketch: what do I see when I put the stick in it, what is contracted, what do I possibly see white spots and what do I call parties to so that they raise it like a raging one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u217	Did I miss the verdict on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u218	I really need to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u219	The operative part of the motion, of course, also covers the responsibilities of the various partners. I do not therefore ask the Minister to take over the role of health insurers. That part of the operative part may indeed be read in such a way that, on the basis of its own responsibility, everyone must jointly draw up regional plans for procurement, hospitals for the best care and first-line providers. What we are trying to say in the operative part of the motion is that at least the Minister is very strongly in charge of it, so that a solution can finally be found. However, I would like to say to the Minister: while maintaining the responsibility of the parties. The Minister also says something about the implementation of the motion. The Minister is already making an important step forward in relation to what she has promised in writing. I should also like to look at the second petitioner, Mrs Volp. It is important that, following the information received from the parties, the Minister should indicate, for each region, for example by ROAZ region, what exactly is the solution direction. According to the Minister's written input, the final, effective direction of the solution would not be communicated to the Chamber until May. This motion calls for a genuine sitting. I would therefore ask the Minister whether, after this further interpretation, I should also like to look at Mrs Volp's report on the implementation of this motion. Then perhaps we would like to change the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u220	In the written response I gave, May was mentioned. However, this involved giving a reaction after the entire chain has been vetted. Every part has been looked at what can be done better. I'll never be able to cross-check an entire chain before Christmas. That reaction will indeed come later. I understand the impatience of the Chamber. Mrs. Bruins Slot also reads the newspaper. She sees what's happening, too. She says it doesn't give the Chamber enough guidance. That's why I'm trying to meet the Chamber. That is why I say that we have not only taken control of all the chains, we are already being vetted, but we will also be able to inform the Chamber for Christmas about the national state of emergency aid and first-line beds. That is the state of the country which makes it possible for the Chamber to make its own judgement, but we will also give an opinion on it, indicating what, in our view, should be visibly improved at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u221	Going once, going twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u222	This is a considerable improvement on the Prime Minister's plan. Is it possible to forward that information to the Chamber for the last AO on confused persons held on 22 December?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u223	I think the 23rd is the last day. That one day is gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u224	Then may I ask the Minister what her assessment of the motion is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u225	Mrs. Bruins Slot should amend the motion. I find it hard to say anything about it with these dates. The motion should be changed for a while. It's really something other than the reaction. Maybe Mrs. Bruins Slot can rewrite the motion. By the way, I made a commitment to this. So there is that possibility. However, if she wishes to do so by motion, she can better rewrite the motion and adjust the dates and what I have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u226	Together with the author, I will look at the wording that is appropriate to what we have now exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u227	But you're the author. Do you mean the co-subscriber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u228	Indeed, Mr President, I meant the co-author.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u229	And you now know the spirit of the opinion of the motion to be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u230	It's like we've been talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u231	That's obvious. Then we'll move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u232	That's the motion in part No. 45. In this motion I am asked, in line with the independent customer support as organised in the Wmo, to consult patient organisations on how this can also be introduced into curative care. In the written replies I referred to the support that is now possible in curative care. Mrs Dijkstra also asked about the care professional. The district nurse, the general practitioner, the geriatric nurse and other supporters in the disease process or in the hospital have a job to do. They are supported by the campaign 3 good questions from the patient movement. We have a lot of volunteers, including in hospitals. 450,000 people are active in healthcare. Municipalities support volunteers locally and may decide, in consultation with voluntary organisations and healthcare institutions, to recruit and train healthcare buddies. According to the law, a municipality should also be able to inform people about the Health Insurance Act. Healthcare insurers can also help people find good care in the right place. This function has been asked to be a little more interested, especially because much is happening and this advisory and mediation function is often not yet sufficiently known. In short, there are many forms of support in many areas. On the occasion of the motion, I can see if there is a white spot for certain groups, just to keep using those words. Mrs. Bruins Slot had an example of something in a hospital. Something worked very well there, but now it doesn't work well anymore. I can imagine that, despite all these efforts, parts of the concern are not sufficiently known. I can discuss this with patients' associations, and I can inform the Chamber about that consultation. So I leave the judgement to the Chamber, but with the remark that a great deal is already happening. Then I come to the Bruins Slot/Dik-Faber motion in part No. 47, which calls for research into structural financing of sensual issues. Earlier, in a letter to the Chamber, I referred to the position of mental care in the system of statutory insurance. This statement still applies. This letter states that insurance benefits are defined in function-oriented terms and that therefore mental caregivers may also be employed in so far as this insured care is concerned. The research carried out by Agora at my request showed in October this year that the funding of mental care in palliative care is still a bottleneck. This is a problem, particularly in the first line and in the case of reimbursement of specialist mental care. That is why, as I wrote in my letter of 3 November, I asked the profession of mental caregivers, the profession of nurses and the Health Institute to discuss this with each other. In the next letter I will send to your Chamber about palliative care, I will inform you about that progress. So I think we should wait and see about that conversation first. Maybe the motion can be held. To go to structural funding while we are still in the middle of a conversation, I think it is a little premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u233	I didn't hear any judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u234	I'd recommend holding the motion. Otherwise, I'm gonna dissuade the motion. First, I want to finish the conversations so we can get a good look at how to proceed with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u235	It would be more convenient if we had a judgment first. Then the petitioner can do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u236	Mr President, there are 35 motions. The motion with Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Bruins Slot as signatories is indeed about the structural financing of palliative care. The operative part of my motion is actually broader: it calls on the government to consider what can be done in addition to palliative care. Judging by the Minister's explanation, I think she had just mentioned the Dik-Faber/Bruins Slot motion, because she referred to the letters on palliative care, including the letter sent on 3 November. So my motion is about meaning issues outside of palliative care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u237	In that case, I would like to include the motion Dik-Faber/Bruins Slot. So that trajectory has now started. I'm gonna ask the parties if they'd like to talk more broadly about that concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u238	I think that's a good commitment. In the conversation between Agora and those parties it will therefore also be about meaning issues outside of palliative care and about the role of spiritual guidance. In that case, I would like to continue the motion, but with the question to the Minister when she expects to be able to inform the Chamber of the outcome of those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u239	I would like to give these people a chance to have these talks for a month or three and to explore the problems, obstacles and opportunities well together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u240	I ask the Minister if he can do this before 1 February. After all, the Chamber stops its meetings in the last week of February.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u241	I think we're gonna go on for another three weeks in February. I will at least ensure that this is not included in the election recess, because it would be of no use to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u242	At the request of Mrs Bruins Slot, I propose her motion (34550-XVI, No. 47). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u243	Yes, Mr President, I am holding the motion, so I will not withdraw it, but I will do so with the Minister's undertaking that she will at least inform the Chamber well before the election recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u244	On the next motion, which in part No. 48, I've given a response before. This motion calls for a game divider and for someone who can use perseverance. We have it in our system. I really think we should stay clean in our system, so we shouldn't do something like that. I have taken a number of measures to this end. For example, I indicated the obligation to wait for institutions. If you don't know how long the waiting time is at an institution, you can't do much. I've got the NZa involved in this, too. We're working on this. We are looking at what is needed in the regions. The health insurance provider, with his duty of care, is in the process of doing so. So I really don't want to recommend this motion. The motion in item 51 calls on the government to prepare a legislative amendment. The applicants consider that the possibility of imposing an administrative ban should also apply to dysfunctional drivers in the care of the elderly, disability care, youth care and ggz. This is about governance. We've been working on this for a while. It's a very intensive journey. We all believe that it cannot be the case that a number of drivers in the care sector, because of their dysfunctions, actually infect the professional of this profession. There are a lot of good drivers in the care. When it comes to dysfunctional colleagues, the good guys will no longer dare to say at parties that they are a driver of care. It is therefore in the interests of the good drivers that we take appropriate action against dysfunctional drivers. The PVV once filed a motion on an appeal test; after all, everyone can just become a driver, but are the people qualified? We said that we would get to work on this. This resulted in the accreditation process. This has started. Only a few drivers have been accredited now. I am also doing this for the supervisors, because being a good supervisor is also a profession. But that accreditation has already started. If the stock is sufficient, we can set the standard for ourselves and the inspection can ensure that one is accredited. So that trajectory has been set in motion. It's preventive. Something could always go wrong. If anything goes wrong, you can go to the Enterprise Room. There you can say that there is maladministration and ask for a ruling on it. Then there can also be a ruling about the driver. It is also necessary to regulate the liability of directors and supervisors. That bill's in the First Chamber. That is not our legislative proposal, by the way, but the proposal for a directive on security and justice. We have looked at how this is regulated in the corporate world. The Entrepreneurship Chamber is a very heavy instrument, but it may also be that an inspection to monitor it says: we do not have a good feeling about it and we are going to replace it in extreme form. So we've done a lot. A great deal has been put in place. The point is that it must be applied. But since you're changing a lot, some things aren't even finished yet and are still in the Chamber, it's important that we... if the Chamber appreciates that, I'd like to put on paper what we've all done and what we can do, to sketch the palette. However, this motion calls for something that I am not in favour of. The motion implies a very far-reaching intervention in the right of ownership and the legal entities for non-foundations. I can't see the implications of that right now. I can't see what I'm going to commit to in a law. I don't want to do it that easy. As the motion now stands, I would like to dissuade it. I come to the motion in part No. 53 of the member Bouwmeester. In this motion, the government is asked to ensure that municipalities, as part of the income window, set up one central and accessible point where people can go for all forms of compensation for healthcare costs and to actively point out to people. Municipalities have an important role to play in providing information. Together with the CAK and the Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten, several actions have been implemented which have led to an improved information provision. In order to give further impetus to this, we will organise a working conference with and for municipalities, including the visibility and findability of compensation policies. It is a good service for municipalities to provide clients with adequate and personalised information on the cost of a provision. Of course it's decentralised, but we all know how to send it from the locker to the wall: which window should you be at now? I leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber, because I can imagine that it is also quite simple for us to say that at least in a municipality there is one point where you can go. Mr Bouwmeester also asked the government in the motion in part No. 54 to ensure that a patient has sufficient space to choose. We have talked about the businesswoman, the younger and the older who may have very different needs than others. The motion also asks whether, through working with categories, the offer can no longer be tailor-made. This fits in with the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u245	Excuse me, what motion are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u246	That's the motion in part No. 54. We also discussed this in the debate. I think it is important that a health insurance company can continue to shop selectively and that there is not just one manufacturer on which the health insurance company depends. Of course, different manufacturers within a category can make an ordinary offer. The health insurance company then buys in selectively, but he ensures that he has offers in every category. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Mrs Bouwmeester also made a suggestion. Can we not take everything off the table and get to work with eight indicators that really say something? I can reassure her or at least give her positive news. We have the Innovation Center Cure. Anyone who says they want to get rid of all these rules can go there because they can do better without it. Medical specialism Radboudumc and VGZ have put forward exactly this idea there. So that was taken care of very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u247	I have a very short question to answer. Where can people who listen in come in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u248	They can report to the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America. This has started. There's all the information on the site. I have been in a very large room full of all kinds of people from curative care to talk to them and ask what they need. As a result of their answer, we have arranged it in such a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u249	That's a very nice answer, thank you for that. I asked another question about diet preparations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u250	That's what I'm getting at. The NZa is working on this and will provide a purchasing standard for the AO on package management. That standard is now being worked out. I will give the category idea perhaps the NZa already works with it; I don't know if I will deliver it to the NZa for security. I come to Mrs Klever's motions. In her motion in part No. 56 invites the Government to prevent all or part of emergency services from being closed down until the overall plan for acute care is available. I really don't want to recommend this motion. We have worked hard to address this problem. I have promised the Chamber that I will report on this before Christmas. If, like for example in Vlietland in Schiedam, there is no adequate staff at some point, closure is an emergency intervention that I cannot stop. I don't think it's up to me to do that either. It's up to insurers to buy in good care. They will have to press for this type of emergency services to be reopened as soon as possible. In her motion in part No. 57 asks the government to ensure that a bundled information card is made available per hospital with the scores per indicator. There's a lot of activity. Mrs Klever referred to that as well. Actually, it's not that complicated. Kiesbeter.nl is the government site. On this website you can find all the information you want. Either you will find the information on the site itself, or you will be redirected to another site. We have made sure that people do not have to search in a forest of websites. If they are looking for specific information, they will automatically be redirected to the site on which they can be found. Kiesbeter.nl is therefore the website that connects people when looking for the health card or a home doctor. So I'm deceiving the motion. Mrs Dijkstra has asked me to give a written response to the germ line research for the treatment of the Embryowet. I will send a response to this to the Chamber. On 11 October I sent the request for advice on PrEP to the Health Council. I asked the Health Council for advice on the following points. Is there a collective interest here? What is the contribution of PrEP to the Dutch approach to the fight against HIV? What is the definition of high-risk groups? What are the side effects and side effects? The Health Council is about its own pace and has indicated that it is likely to be able to give its opinion at the beginning of 2018. In each country the situation is different, in terms of incidence, risk groups and in particular embedding in care for the risk groups. A lot of international and national research has been done. In order to ensure that the advice is completed as quickly as possible, all investigations will be taken into account. In mid-2017 the Health Council will organise a conference with and for the field on the progress and input of the field. Mrs Dijkstra and Mrs Bergkamp have in part no. 58 a motion on medical cannabis. In the motion, the government is asked to encourage the BMC to engage with users on a regular basis. That is in line with what we discussed in the debate. I therefore consider the motion to support policy and leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the motion in part No. 63 of Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Voortman asked the government to consult the Health Institute on the funding of nursing care. Advice on breast-feeding is part of the maternity care approach. In the case of more extensive care, reference can be made to the lactation expert. Many insurers compensate for this in the supplementary policy. I see no reason to include this in the basic package or otherwise. So I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u251	In 2015, the Zorginstituut gave advice on the broad package of maternity care, but not specifically on lactation care. Indeed, it belongs to a number of insurers in the supplementary package. My question is correct: should we not look at what health benefits can be achieved by including it in the basic package rather than in the supplementary package? Let's check that out. There is also a route through the consultation offices. Then we can talk about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u252	I don't see any reason for that myself. If the Chamber does see it, of course it will be different. The motion in part No. 65 I have actually already discussed at the same time with Mrs Bruins Slot's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u253	I think it's right to hold that motion. That is also what happened with Mrs Bruins Slot's mirrored motion. By the way, they deal with different areas of care. Then we'll hold both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u254	At the request of Mrs Dik-Faber, I propose her motion (3450-XVI, No. 65). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u255	Second-line providers have often set up a facility for interpreters themselves. That is why the interpretation system for the general practitioner is included in the proposal. The doctor is the health care provider where the status holder goes. He also has a POH-ggz. That is also the first aid in the case of ggz. As it continues, you can see that the interpreter in the second line is often already present as a facility. I personally think it is very important that there is an incentive to learn the language. I have been conducting this debate with Mrs Voortman for many years. I haven't taken care of it in years. I have arranged it now, because people who enter here because of the large influx are much faster to hold status when they have not yet been able to learn the language. Since I see a problem there, I said: okay, given that special situation, I think we should now provide for this arrangement. That is, in contrast to all the years before, in which I did not propose it. So there's a reason I'm doing it. The flow goes so fast that people quickly come to live in a municipality and go to a general practitioner. There are always interpreters in azc's. I see in this rapid flow a reason to settle it now, but in this way. Mrs Voortman has tabled an amendment. That is a much heavier amendment, in which we are talking about 20 million. That's really much more and much wider. I notice that if I had found that necessary, I would have imagined it myself. But I also find the coverage very vulnerable. This is precisely the catch-up that should allow patients to make much more decisions on their own files. We want much more decision-making information, we want to promote it together. That's what money has been spent on. With this amendment, there really is a very big bite out of that improvement. I wouldn't do that myself. And to cover it now from the subsidies for screening for breast and cervical cancer! I don't think that coverage is very good either. I am therefore not in favour of this amendment, but more in favour of my own proposal. But, yeah, that's not gonna be that amazing either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u256	You have another question, Mrs. Voortman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u257	Of course, the coverage can always be looked at. The Minister says she thinks her own proposal is better, but that is only about general practitioner care. There is indeed a POH-ggz, but I am also thinking of a midwife and all kinds of other caregivers. Then I find the argument in the vein of 'often it is regulated in the second line' far too vulnerable. What about the other primary care providers? What do you do with second-line care providers where it's not arranged?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u258	Those second-line care providers have a facility in practice. I see the GP as the key. That's the first point of contact. In the first line, basic care is actually regulated. That is why I have limited it to that. Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Voortman on part No. 67, on medical specialists in paid employment. I've sent the Chamber the report of the Meurs Committee. This report compares people in paid employment and people in a partnership. I thought it was a very surprising report myself. Sometimes you have a bit of a bias that wage earner is always so much better. Usually, when there's a fight somewhere, you have it as an employed person or as a member. You can see that there is very little governance there. Whether it goes well in an institution has little to do with paid employment or membership. That was something I noticed. I have communicated with you a great deal about this. The cabinet has indicated that it does not prefer a form of service, whether it is participation or an employed person. I think the medical-specialist company itself is more of an intermediate form. I have a subsidy for paid employment and will extend it again. I certainly want to encourage those who want to be employed to do so. I do like the free choice. So I'm deceiving the motion. Then I come to the Voortman c.s. motion, on a plan of action with measures to remove abortion from the taboo. I am very sorry when women feel that it is a taboo or feel that they should not talk about it. I do not think it does justice to the situations in which women can end up. I think our abortion services are incredibly important. When you see what alternative methods are sometimes applied in those countries where there is no such care, I am glad that we have arranged it as we have arranged it. We do regular research on this. In the last survey, women indicated that they were satisfied with the aid. I think that is very important, so we have done well on this point. I do believe that further improvement is possible. That is why I have announced a legislative proposal in which I want to increase the role of the general practitioner in the provision of abortion aid. Now you go to that anonymous abortion clinic, but if you can go to the GP in the first phase, the GP can say "Dear girl, how about the shot pill?" For this is not going to be arranged like this." So the GP can start the conversation. He knows who he's got in his office. All this is less anonymous and therefore a good alternative for women who choose to do so. I want to make that possible. We are working very hard on that. I see much more added value in this than in a plan of action. That's why I advise against this motion. Then I come to the Van der Staaij motion on part No. 70, in which the Government is requested to send the draft contract letter to the Chamber by 1 December at the latest. I have previously sent a letter to the Chamber on the subject of evaluation in July. I never got a reaction from the Chamber there. It may have escaped your attention, but of course I am prepared to send the draft letter, so that you have a second chance, I shall say, to look at it again. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then I will be at the Krol motion in part No. 73, on medication assessment. I assume that Mr Krol refers to the risk group 75-plussers and at least seven medicines, which were also the subject of written questions. These people will often receive a medication assessment as part of the quality agreements between insurers and the pharmacy. They also usually fill their own risks. I am prepared to examine the costs involved and I would like to return to that in the preparation of the general consultation package. It is a shame to anticipate a conclusion now. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. Then I come to the Kuzu motion on part No. 75. That's, if it's okay, my final motion, too. In this motion, the government is asked to identify with health insurers and municipalities whether sufficient culturally sensitive care is being purchased. The insurers are responsible for purchasing appropriate care for all insured persons. We have also made stricter agreements with each other. Healthcare insurers must publish their procurement policy before 1 April, and it can also consider whether sufficient attention is being paid to all kinds of groups. Did they buy care of that? Is that enough for us? There will be more transparency than there is now. At that time we also specifically discussed these groups. So I do not see any added value in such a broad study, because the procurement policy that is being made public already gives us a better picture of this. So I'd like to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u259	I see that Mrs Keijzer still wishes to ask or add something on one of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u260	If I have understood correctly, the Minister in his assessment of the Keijzer/Potters motion in part No. 51 on a ban on administration, it is clear that there is a great deal to be done in this area and that it is being prepared. Would the Minister please send that to the Chamber in writing? That may be the reason for me to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u261	I do not know when the vote will take place, but I have offered the Chamber an overview of what we have done in this area. That was a lot; preventive, lighter, heavier and heaviest. I've offered to give the Chamber an overview of what's going on. I also said that the motion tabled by Mrs Keijzer could have consequences which I cannot see so quickly. I really need to look into that with the Ministry of Security and Justice, but I'm warned it's a big deal. I can't just do that. But I will inform the Chamber in a letter of what has already been done and what, in that context, is or is not an added value of the proposal; the pluses and the mins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u262	For your information, the motion will be put to the vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u263	That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u264	No, and just for subtitles, this motion is about a ban on the administration of dysfunctional, misguided drivers. With this hand-off from the minister, I can get out of my way. I will therefore proceed with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u265	At the request of Mrs Keijzer, I propose her motion (3450-XVI, No. 51). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u266	This was also discussed in the consultation with the Secretary of State. He said he'd explain a few things. Maybe that can be combined in one letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u267	We're also doing this together, because healthcare institutions and hospitals all have drivers. I don't know what Mrs. Volp's time schedule is. I see her gestures that this planning suits her well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u268	I had asked the Minister another question in response to her positive response to the CDA's action plan on drug shortages. The Minister will shortly come up with a list of measures and I would actually like to ask the Minister if, if she does, she can indicate by measure when the measure can be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u269	Yes, Mr. Chairman. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u270	Mrs Keijzer had one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u271	I understand it won't work for next week, but when can the Chamber get that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u272	It's the middle of November now. January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u273	Beginning or end of January?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u274	Halfway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u275	January 15th. Thank you very much. Then we go to the motions that the Secretary of State will provide for a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u276	Mr. Chairman. A few specific questions have also been asked. Mr Potters asked me whether I could appreciate the quality of nursing homes going in the right direction. I had the impression that we had gone into this very extensively during my speech, but if Mr Potters wants an answer: yes, I think so. Not only because we are improving a number of things in the framework conditions. Think of Quality of life, Dignity and pride, Other and better supervision, standards of basic safety, intervention where necessary, transparency of quality, quality standards and guidance. The inspection's risk list shows that things are getting better. The inspection reports from 2011 also show an improvement in quality. The figures of the ZorgPortal.nl are at 7.6. There are many more initiatives that ensure small scale and quality, which also changes the sector as such. So my answer is yes. But that doesn't mean the job's done. I have argued very extensively that there is still a world to be won and that it continues to work very hard. Will there be no more incidents? Of course I do. Every day, about 130,000 people receive medication. This Secretary of State will not guarantee that every time the right pill ends up on the right desk, of course not. At the same time, we see that basic safety standards are being drawn up and that inspections are being carried out. To us the call not to magnify incidents. We must take the words of Mr Potters' neighbor to heart: incidents should not be seen, because that does not help to improve quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u277	I say it every time I am asked this question: there are, of course, a lot of good nursing homes and we have to think about that regularly. We should also highlight this, but that does not mean that we should run away, nor does the Secretary of State do that for the fact that there are also bad nursing homes and that we should intervene if necessary. I asked another question. It has to do with the motion we tabled before the summer on medication safety. Where exactly are we? Is it safe at all nursing homes now? On three, improvements need to be made. How soon is that gonna be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u278	We'll talk about that in two weeks. I'd like to hear that from the inspection. I hear that's next week. Measures have been taken. Moreover, medical safety is a standard part of the inspection policy. Each inspection shall be monitored to assess the safety of medications. If it is not in order, measures will be taken. If safety is in order, it's all fine. On this subject, we have said to each other that we must, in general terms, ensure that quality is improved, as is the way in which we talk about it. Of course, there is still a lot of work to be done. In Rotterdam they would say "no words but deeds," but much more beautiful is Proverbs 14, verse 23: In all effortful labor will benefit, but the talk of lips only leads to lack. Then there is Mrs Bergkamp's specific question about the tailor-made profile: when exactly is that coming? In my letter of 2 September, I offered the Chamber the examination of the experience of clients with the current arrangements for extra care and extra costs at home. I have indicated that the Healthcare Institute will finalise its opinion on this this autumn. I have now understood that this opinion is expected in December. That is an opinion from the Dutch Healthcare Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u279	Is this also about the multi-care scheme? Can we expect that advice in December?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u280	We have to wait and see, but it is about extra care and extra costs at home, about entitlement, access, funding and delivery. It involves a wide range of parties, including client organisations. We expect this opinion in December. Mrs Bergkamp had another question on the opinion on funding. In the spring of 2017 I will receive an opinion on the evolution ofzzp's, the care packages, and the surcharges on them. It is on this basis that we need to consider whether we should draw any consequences for tariffs or whether further research is needed. Costing is often very complex, but I expect that advice from the NZa in the spring of 2017 and then I can assess whether this can lead to consequences for the rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u281	It is therefore not true that the NZa will not be carrying out the cost investigation until the end of 2017. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u282	You already heard me say something, because in the spring I get an opinion on the development of thezzp's. Then we need to see whether further research is needed to translate this into the rates. I can't say anything about that yet. I can't tell you until spring. Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Dik asked about the funds for Fiom and Siriz. There are two issues at stake here. On the one hand, the amounts are brought back to the old level and on the other hand, we are making them structural. The comment I made is that in 2017 we will continue as we are doing and that we will take the time to see whether it can be limited to a number of organisations or whether it needs to be looked at more broadly. We have time for that in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u283	Then I guess we'll go to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u284	Not only sweet, but also steady.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u285	I am now trying for the third time, because I would like an answer to the question whether the Secretary of State has a view on the overhead of the implementation of the Wmo now. He explained very nicely that it was 10% with the old Wmo, but I already knew that. How's it going now? If he doesn't know that, will he take a look at that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u286	I would like to take a look at that, but the implementation costs vary from municipality to municipality. Sometimes they're in the primary process and sometimes you can distinguish them. The question is, for example, whether we find the operation of the district teams overhead costs or whether they are covered by the primary process. It seems to me almost impossible to get a clear answer after examination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u287	Well, that's special, because it worked out with the old Wmo. The administrative costs were assessed in 2008 and 2010. I can just read the answer from the Secretary of State. Well, that's got to be possible now, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u288	We now have a broader social domain and, secondly, we are looking at the Youth Act and the Wmo. Within the Wmo we look at many different services of general amenities and customization. Some municipalities work with district teams and others don't. I am very willing to look at this in the evaluations too, but I predict that I am doing a bit of expectations management that we do not really get very clear answers to that. Moreover, implementation costs are really the responsibility of municipalities and municipal councils, whether they are high or low.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u289	Finally!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u290	No, not quite. The word "system responsibility" has often been mentioned. If you can do this with the old Wmo, you can do it with the new Wmo. I'm sitting on this because I'm afraid these implementation costs have increased enormously. When I hear how long people are busy in the process before they finally hear or, if so, what care they get, I think this can be a lot less. Then you should start by just looking for numbers for that. The Secretary of State isn't happy right now. He'll make it big and complicated, but this will only be a motion for another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u291	That's what we're waiting for. In the motion in part No. 43 ask Mr Van Gerven and Mrs Leijten to have the indications in the Wlz and the Wmo established on the basis of the need for care, and to ban indications at hours and minutes. I would advise against this motion. As Mr Van Gerven knows, in the context of the Wlz, the indication is given on the basis of care needs and on the basis of care gravity. There, minutes and hours don't matter. This is done objectively on the basis of those criteria in the law, and this is done on the basis of care needs. Not so long ago we talked about domestic help and then the SP asked whether this domestic help could not simply be indicated by the municipality in hours. That would also be a bit contradictory. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion-Keijzer c.s. in piece No. 49 is linked to the Volp c.s. motion. in piece No. 55. Both motions concern the AMvB and the UN Convention. I find both motions a bit special. The concept AMvB is now in consultation. I have yet to process the results of that. I shall then have to refer the AMvB to the Chamber so that the Chamber can see whether it also meets the requirements it lays down. In the debate I indicated that, of course, I am very willing to talk to all the organisations to see if we can achieve a good AMvB, which complies with the law on the one hand and everything we have exchanged in the discussion here on the other. I have no objection in substance to the motions, but I honestly believe that they are being tabled at a slightly wrong time. The final assessment of whether the motion meets the requirements of the Chamber is, of course, up to the Chamber. In both motions I read a bit that it is a good AMvB when different parties say it is a good AMvB. I would prefer to leave that judgment to the Chamber itself. But of course you're there yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u292	What is the precise opinion on the motion in part No. Forty-nine and actually simultaneously on the motion in part No. 55?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u293	If there is an integrated motion, I am not opposed to the substance of the motion. However, I would advise the proposers to look at the wording. It is actually said that if it meets the wishes of the field, then it is good. I would prefer to leave that judgment with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u294	The Secretary of State is formally right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u295	I'm happy about that anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u296	That is what I am saying to the Secretary of State. I think, however, that the Secretary of State must also understand that we really want to point out that it is of the utmost importance. The Secretary of State also talked about the timing of this. We do indeed have the final word on the AMvB, but it must be there. The Secretary of State is therefore formally right when he says that the Chamber should ultimately give an opinion on this matter. I will consult with Mrs Keijzer to see if we can blur these motions together. With regard to timing, I think that Chamberwide is the feeling: let us now make sure that a further step towards real accessibility is taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u297	We agree on that. If you are going to put these two motions together, I would ask you to look at the wording of the question when the AMvB is good. I think that is important if we are to be able to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. We are going to look into this in consultation with the parties concerned. Then I will make a proposal to the Chamber and you will have to assess whether that is right. If you give me the message "the AMvB is only good if everyone likes it," then you don't make life very easy for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u298	I'll be back on the deadline. I would like to make that clear before 1 January. It is important that there is support in the field for the precise implementation, because it is ultimately about the 2 million people who are going to be affected by this. We therefore feel that we have a heavy responsibility in this regard. So I suggest we look at it. I assume that we will get out and then have a motion on which the Secretary of State can pass judgment on to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u299	That seems to me to be a good way of making a good motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u300	I'm willing to do that, too. The reason why we are trying to connect with the target group is that the UN Convention is also about the statement 'not about us, but with us'. People say: talk to us about accessibility. We all agree. We feel that sometimes too, but if you don't have that limitation yourself, it's hard to talk about it anyway. I think I speak on behalf of all the co-signatories when I say that we have the willingness to look together at how we can prepare a good motion to guide the work of the Secretary of State to finally lay down a good General Measure of Governance here. I had myself put in my motion on 20 December because that is the Tuesday for Christmas. Then we still have the possibility to plan an AO on the next two days, if necessary. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will be able to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u301	Sure. I also need some procedural time, if only to be able to discuss it in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u302	From my role as President, I should like to point out that I strongly recommend that you do not construct any motions in which constitutional inaccuracies have already been recognised by Members in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u303	That means I'm holding my motion. I think that goes for both of us. We will try to make a nice story of that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u304	At the request of Mrs Keijzer, I propose her motion (3450-XVI, No. 49). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u305	I agree with Mrs Keijzer and, of course, I listen to your wise words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u306	At the request of Mrs Volp, I propose her motion (34550-XVI, No. 55). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u307	The motion in part No. 50 calls for the deletion of rules that have been put forward in the field, following the experiment with low regulation settings. We have discussed it before in the Chamber. Many of these rules are internal rules. It is very important for institutions to see for themselves which internal rules can be deleted, whether or not at the request of another. Many of these lessons have already been taken into account in the development of legislation and regulations for the benefit of long-term care. I am working on a further reduction on the basis of what is requested in the motion, through scraping sessions and standardisation. I am reporting on this this spring, not only with the Wmo and the Wlz, but also with the Youth Act. Given that I am already taking on the activities in the motion, I advise against the motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 52. It calls on the government to bring forward the investigation of transport tariffs. I'd like to discuss this with the NZa. I would also point out that transport shortages must not be at the expense of the necessary care. If you want to know if that investigation can be speeded up, I need a word with the NZa. I could do it like this. On 24 November 2016 we have an AO on the Long-Term Care Act. Then I can report on my deliberations with the NZa. I therefore ask the author to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u308	Agreed, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u309	At the request of Mrs Keijzer, I propose her motion (3450-XVI, No. 52). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u310	I have in front of me the motion in part No. 59, which concerns Article 6.1.1, which states that care is not only discussed but that it is also guaranteed that the client or family has the last word. For two reasons, this motion goes too far. Firstly, the legislation and regulations already provide that, if there is a discussion, it is carried out according to the care plan. The law itself already lays down the circumstances that can prevent this from happening, for example because it is contrary to the quality of the healthcare provider or because damage could be caused to other residents. The law itself lays down that the client's wish must be respected and also lays down the cases in which this is not the case. Secondly, this really must be a two-sided arrangement. The client and the family have the final say. The regulations provide that this must be respected and in what circumstances this cannot be done. For those reasons, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u311	I have just looked closely at the AMvB with Mrs Agema and it says that attention should be paid to showers and toilets, for example. That's different than guaranteeing it. It is too crazy for words that we should talk about this. Mrs Agema and I think it is important not only to discuss it in the context of the healthcare plan, but also to ensure it. In these basic matters, I sincerely believe that the client and the family should have the final say in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u312	The laws and regulations already state that the healthcare provider respects an informed wish of the insured person with regard to the way in which the insured person wishes to organise his or her life, unless this cannot reasonably be asked of him or her and a whole list of examples is given. So yes, we need to agree on all those aspects mentioned in the laws and regulations. That deliberate wish must be respected, unless it is. That's taken care of, too. I think that we should also remove the health care provider's balance, because he must be able to say that something goes beyond his responsibility or that he cannot do something for a particular reason. That must be respected. It's gotta be a two-way deal. The Berkkamp/Volp motion in part No. 61, in my view, is the same as Mrs Keijzer's, namely on the question of transport costs. My request is to hold that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u313	In fact, I think it would be wise to hold on to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u314	At the request of Mrs Bergkamp, I propose her motion (34550-XVI, No. 61). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u315	In the Bergkamp/Voskamp motion on piece No. 62 is requested to examine the possibility of reducing the maximum own contributions for single chronic patients. There may be some misunderstanding about the numbers. There are around 250,000 single people who use facilities for which their own contribution is to be paid in the Wmo, 70% of whom are entitled to AOW. If you wanted to expand that, it would be $4 million. As of 1 January 2017, the contribution for single persons and AOW-holders is €17.50. If it falls for these households, it will cost 60 million. I would like to point out that 50 million has been taken for a family of earners in which one of the partners is chronically ill and therefore unable to work, in order to meet the wishes of the Chamber. For the other groups using Wmo care, the maximum period contribution and the percentage contribution shall be reduced. The government has therefore taken 50 million specific and general purchasing power measures for that group and has reduced the WMO contributions in a generic sense. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u316	The Secretary of State is talking about the group above the AOW age. That is also his response in response to our motion and our questions, but we want to align it, so also for people without partners. The call in the motion is to investigate. My question is whether the Secretary of State can zoom in on the question of whether there are problems with this group's own contribution, and to inform the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u317	The cabinet has weighed this extensively in the decision-making process on the Spring Note. We have looked at purchasing power development and measures to support it. At that time, a number of specific and generic measures were taken, including these. We now see no reason to look at further measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u318	My question is not whether the Secretary of State wants to take action now, but whether he wants to investigate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u319	We have examined this in the context of purchasing power decision-making in the spring note. Measures have already been taken at that time. If we now have a motion to ask whether I want to look at it again, we shall have an advance on a discussion to further reduce it. That's what they're asking. That's why I'm sticking to my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u320	Mrs. Bergkamp, what do you want? You've heard three times that the Secretary of State doesn't want to. That's annoying, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u321	At first, he said he didn't want to take any action. Then I said I didn't want a measure. I wanted an investigation. Now that Secretary of State says he's already investigated it. Now my question is whether the Secretary of State can send this information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u322	Then you'll ask for another investigation. The cabinet has tried to make an integral decision on purchasing power, with general and specific measures. I'm not in favour of another investigation into a specific group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u323	In itself I think it's wonderful that D66 is concerned about their own contributions, but these have been discussed extensively in the context of the Wmo. The Secretary of State talks about purchasing power, but this group is not shown in the purchasing power picture, because it is about care costs. It is a pity that the Secretary of State has also now refused to carry out research on this subject, as I have often asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u324	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion by Mr Dik-Faber/Volp on part No. 64 requesting that, if there is no covenant on 1 December, legislation be prepared for a tobacco product display ban. I consider that motion to support policy, so I'll leave it to the Chamber to decide. The motion in part No. 65 is about the structural financing of mental caregivers in the palliative phase. It is asked to investigate how mental care can be structurally financed in the palliative phase. We are talking to insurance companies, among other things, to see what the advantages and disadvantages are. I think it's good to wait for that conversation. I would ask the applicant to hold the motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u325	What's the verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u326	The request is to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u327	I had already held the motion after the Minister had responded to the motion. It was a unanimous cabinet response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u328	The cabinet always speaks with one mouth, not only in theory but also in practice. That's what it turns out to be. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 66, about Fiom and Siriz. The government is sought to provide clarity on funding in the Spring 2017 note. I've just indicated what we're going to do with the budget. We're gonna raise it and make it structural. I can imagine that Fiom and Siriz should know in good time if there are any changes ahead of 2018 and beyond. I consider it to be policy support and leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 68 Mrs Voortman and Mrs Bergkamp are asking for an investigation into the reasons why municipalities had 1.2 billion left. I would like to carry out this research widely, but I would like to make a comment on the points raised. It is asked whether we can also see if there are people who did not call for care, when they could have done so. That seems to me to be a group that is very difficult to investigate. The same applies to people who have not received adequate care. You only know when people have received care and received a decision from the municipality. So I want to do the research as widely as possible and I will take those aspects as far as possible. However, I cannot be asked to investigate matters that are not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u329	The Secretary of State is right, so I will delete the recital on people who have not called on care. For people who have not received appropriate care, it is different. I assume that the Secretary of State can discuss this with client organisations that also receive information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u330	It's an investigation into how that 1.2 billion was spent. Then it is asked whether you have not spent it on people who have not received appropriate care. You can't investigate that in general. You're gonna have to count, and I don't think you can. I appreciate Mrs Voortman's amendment. If she changes the motion, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u331	Just to be clear, you will give the opinion to the Chamber if a certain change is made?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u332	Yes, and I will. I'll just e-mail the change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u333	Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 71.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u334	Yes. In this motion, the government is asked to raise awareness of the rights of carers and to encourage municipalities. Research is currently under way to see whether municipalities can better support the carers. This research is done by the Social Cultural Planning Bureau. We are also in consultation with Mezzo and the VNG to see how this can be better brought to our attention. In short, I consider the motion to support policy and leave it to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 72. I am prepared to consult with the VNG and the health insurance companies to see how to clarify the question of when to be eligible for a personal alert. It takes me too far to say that the purpose of the consultation is to arrive at a uniform basic regulation. We're dealing with the Wmo and the Health Insurance Act. I do not think it would be appropriate to establish a uniform basic regulation. I would like to interpret the motion in such a way that we consult with VNG in order to clarify when you are entitled to alert persons. I see Mr Krol saying in sign language that that is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u335	Yeah, but that doesn't count until I see it and say it, and that's the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u336	I'm always trying to do your job. I'm gonna have to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u337	You can say anything. Then suddenly it's in the Acts. Mr Krol agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u338	Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the Krol/Bergkamp motion in part No. 74 the government is invited to consider, in consultation with the social partners, how to reverse the negative image surrounding the profession of nurses. I would like to consult with the social partners and municipalities to ensure a more positive picture of this sector. I'll leave this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u339	This seems to have come to the end of the answer. I've been watching very carefully. I have heard the Minister, between the motions, express an opinion on Mrs Voortman's amendment to item No. 60 in place of the amendment to item No. 60 in order to replace the amendment to item No. 60 in order to replace the amendment to item No. 60 in order to replace the amendment to item No. 60 in order to replace the amendment to item No. 60 in order to replace the amendment to item No. 60 in order to replace the amendment to item No. 60 in order to replace the amendment to item No. 60 in order to However, I have the opinion on the amendment to item No. Forty-six of Mr Leijten and Mr Van Gerven to replace Amendment No. Thirty-two missed, but that could be me. Let me see if Mr Van Gerven has heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u340	The amendment has not been changed in substance. It was a textual improvement. Let me look at the Secretary of State: do we at least agree on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u341	Yes, and so my judgment remains the same. I don't recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u342	That brings us to the end of the reply. I thank the rulers very much for their comprehensive reply. I think that is what I am doing on behalf of the Members. I see them all nodding in agreement. All the particular words about the last treatment have already been said. I would just like to point out that it is very special that we know during the treatment that it is the last one. On previous occasions, we did not know that at all. It's been a long time since we've known that before.
