ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u1	Mr President, you said it already. This debate would be about the decline in the value of the homes in Groningen, but we have noticed that the spokesmen have raised many more issues. That expresses great commitment and sympathy with the people in Groningen. I can tell you that I fully share that feeling. For almost four years I have been confronted every day with what is going on in Groningen and with all its implications. I am therefore very well placed in the concerns expressed by the spokesmen. I will be happy to respond to what the spokesmen have brought in. I will start by doing that in a few broad lines, after making some preliminary remarks. Then I go into the National Coordinator Groningen, the damage, the reinforcement, the schools and finally the housing market. All other subjects will then be discussed. I may go into more detail on the issues I have just mentioned when I deal with the spokesmen. I have already indicated that I am well aware of what is going on in Groningen and that I am confronted with it every day. The same applies, of course, to the cabinet as a whole. We have therefore done a great deal since this cabinet took office. The first year I used to do the investigations that were necessary to base our far-reaching decisions. I also informed the Chamber immediately after I took office that I wanted to do so, and the Chamber agreed to do so. So I've been busy collecting information for the first year. Then I did everything I could to make sure that what was needed for the area became real. We can see that a number of things have also improved in Groningen. The large problem area in Groningen was Loppersum and surrounding area. We all know it's very quiet in Loppersum and surroundings now. We know the number of earthquakes has decreased. In 2013 it was there, if you count everything from 1 on the Richter scale, 77. Two years later, it was just... I'd rather say... it was still 46. The earthquakes that had a real impact are the earthquakes of more than 2 on the Richter scale. In 2013 we had twelve of them, in 2015 eight and in the first five months of this year one. So there is a major change in seismicity in the area, caused by the drastic reduction in the number of cubic meters of natural gas produced there. In fact, the amount that is extracted there is halved. Some spokesmen Mrs Mulder began by saying: we had to drag that away before the gates of hell. I don't think that's entirely right about how it went. If people are very concerned and the Chamber is very concerned, then it can vote on a Tuesday afternoon in a motion. Then there is the motion, but in order to be able to take action, you must first know exactly what the situation is. Then you have to make sure that you think out and prepare the necessary measures. Finally, you need to provide an organisation and money and pay attention to aspects such as security of supply. It is not just about the interests of the people of Groningen but also about the interests of all people throughout the country. After that, you can only take measures. We have taken these measures at the highest possible rate. I also feel very strongly supported by the administrators in the area, by the Chamber and by the people in the area, all of whom, like me, are on the line that we should do the best we can to make the problem manageable there as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u2	That's a bit of entrapment, isn't it? I have given three specific examples of why it feels that way. It is, of course, an addition to everything that has happened in recent years. For example, for the safety of children, schools need to be safe. Secretary of State Dekker van Onderwijs en Cultuur made a statement on this subject, which had to be repaired in the spring note. The entire House of Representatives wanted an increase in value, but the Minister ignored the motion. The whole Chamber wanted to know what was going on with these weird VAT deals and exactly what's going on. Then debate after debate and question and after question is necessary in order to clarify. All that gives us, but certainly also the people in Groningen, the feeling that you have to fight for your right time and time again. That feeling of injustice stings me. I was going to pass that on to the Minister. I hope he's aware of the apple I put on him. I hope he wants to get on with it, because that is what our Groningers need so much!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u3	I am very motivated to do everything reasonable to meet the Groningers. In particular, this is aimed at improving and normalising the situation in the area, making the housing market similar to that in other parts of the country and ensuring that people there no longer have to worry. I'm very motivated to do that. However, I do not recognise the examples mentioned by Mrs Mulder. I've never experienced any opposition from Secretary of State Dekker. For the schools in the area in question in Groningen, we have now made a sum of EUR 290 million available. The people in the area are satisfied with that, too. A lot can be done with it. A budget has been set for the value increase scheme. That money was then spent within two years instead of within the five years required for it. The Chamber has asked for more money. My first opportunity to make that negotiable was with the Spring Note. More money has also been made available. The increase in value is now continuing. As a third example, Mrs Mulder mentioned the VAT arrangements. The subject of VAT has recently been discussed. I have responded to this by letter and will say the necessary about it later. Every time something is going on in Groningen, I try to respond quickly and adequately. There is no question that the way in which the cabinet deals with the problems of Groningen would exacerbate the problem. On the contrary, we are contributing rapidly to solutions and improving the situation in Groningen. I have just said something about reducing seismicity and I am going to say a lot more about it later. All that is a reflection of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u4	I hear the Minister of Economic Affairs saying these things, but yet I feel that the accumulation of various points over the past few years shows that the Groningen people are getting pretty tired of it. Honestly, I recognize that feeling. The Minister says that the cabinet is doing well and that it can't go any faster, but I think he should take a step harder. Does he feel that way himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u5	No, absolutely not. If I think I need to take a step harder, I'll take a step harder. I am not going to wait until Mrs Mulder invites me to do so. We have now halved gas extraction in the area. We removed the damage treatment from the NAM and invested it at the Safe Living Centre. Together with the province of Groningen and the municipalities, we have set up a separate public service which means that more than 100 people are active in the area, all concentrated on this problem. There are still dozens of people to be able to do what is necessary. We have the appreciation scheme. We've got the backup. We have the depreciation scheme, which I shall be discussing later. We have taken dozens of measures because we were convinced that they were reasonable and even necessary. All the steps I could take, I've made. If I thought I could do more, I would have done it by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u6	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u7	The National Coordinator, which I mentioned earlier, has started. He has been assigned the task of establishing, through public direction, a supported approach to improving the damage handling process, speeding up the reinforcement exercise and improving the future perspective for Groningen in terms of viability, sustainability and economy. I very much appreciate the way he handled that. He has come up with a multiannual programme which is indeed widely supported. We have made extra money available a number of times. As we all know, a basic amount of 1.2 billion has been allocated at the beginning to the problem in Groningen. We then made available an additional amount of 96 million in the Spring 2015 note for the period covered by the basic amount, in particular to give the National Coordinator the opportunity to set up his organisation. We have added 284 million to the Spring Note this year. 244 million has been made available through an agreement with the Ministry of Finance and I have released 40 million from the EZ budget for sustainability. Of the 284 million we used 23.5 million for a package for schools in the area, supplemented by the NAM by 172 million, by the municipalities with 44 million and by OCW by 50 million. As a result, a total of 290 million were made available for these schools. Ample resources have become available for the activities of the National Coordinator. Furthermore, there is constant support from me for the National Coordinator, because I think he is important. I want him to succeed and get the support and cover he needs. I have established that he is successful, both towards the municipalities, the province and the residents in the area as well as towards the NAM. On top of that, the NAM is always responsible. It will therefore have to agree to all sorts of things, because it will then have to come to terms with them. All this needs to be cleared up and settled. I believe that the National Coordinator is also working well in this respect. I want to say something about the damage settlement. There can never be a misunderstanding about the damage. If the damage is caused by activities of the NAM, it must be paid for by the NAM. I have nothing to do with contours and all kinds of other things. If the damage is caused by natural gas extraction in the area, it must be compensated. It's how I organize that well that matters to me. There have been a lot of claims: up to and including the first quarter of this year 66,000. In more than 60,000 cases an offer for damage recovery has been made. So it's not a mess, which was suggested by a few, with the damage handling. No, it is a very well-organised process in which more than 60,000 out of nearly 66,000 cases have been offered for repair. In almost 80% of cases, this has been accepted and thus the damage in these cases has been eliminated. I have already pointed out that this means that money has often been transferred. If people have damage, the first possibility is that they will have it repaired on behalf of the Centre Safe Living. If the people don't want that, they can pick out a contractor themselves to get the damage repaired, which they'll get completely compensated for by the Centrum Safe Living. If they don't want to, but they want to get money transferred, they can. This has happened in 70% of the cases. Most contractors in the area could work if 100% of the claims were directly addressed on behalf of the Safe Living Centre or on behalf of the residents. Then there was a huge amount of work. If people choose to get money and then look at what they're going to do with it, when and how, what their right is, it also has an effect on the work of the contractors. We have to face that. It is striking that the decline in the number of earthquakes increases the number of reports of damage. I am not judging the value of this; I am merely repeating it. Seismicity decreases and the number of claims increases. I note that, in more than half of the cases, no relationship is seen between the damage report and the extraction of natural gas. There is a remarkable movement going on there and it is easy to see exactly what is behind it. Why is 70% of the cases not commissioned or accepted that the Safe Living Centre will repair the damage? What about what I just mentioned, namely that there are more damage reports while there are fewer earthquakes? We're gonna let them all figure it out. The National Coordinator is working on that. If we have the data, we will see how we can respond adequately to it. My point will always be that damage caused by the earthquakes must be repaired quickly and adequately. This is quite apart from the fact that such damage should not occur at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u8	I would suggest that the Minister conclude this section on damage first. Then I'll give the MPs the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u9	It is good to talk to each other about the complex cases. A few people have suggested that the complex cases remained and that the cracks in the wall were chosen. I think that's what Mrs Klever said. This is contrary to reality. The complex cases have received special attention. Mr Vos of the Labour Party asked about this a few years ago and said that the aim should be to solve all these complex cases by 1 January 2016. That was 195. 186 were solved before that date. There's still nine cases open. In all nine cases, I believe that a reasonable offer has been made to those concerned. For me, all these cases have been dealt with. Since then, of course, new complex cases have come into the picture. We took those complex cases out of the Center for Safe Living and put them with the National Coordinator. It is currently about 70, 80 cases, 30 of which have already been taken off. The others are being treated and all are being treated as a matter of priority under the direction of the National Coordinator, who has appointed specialized people for this purpose. So let me get this straight. I told you, there are 66,000 damage reports. 60,000 times an offer of compensation has been made. The complex cases were all completed by 1 January of this year. The cases that have occurred since then are being dealt with by the National Coordinator, who closely monitors them. That is the reality. Special situations may arise around these claims. That is what the Committee on Special Situations is for. I formally set up this committee on 1 May this year, thus improving its position and guaranteeing independence. That committee therefore plays an important role in this. I will also say something about the damage outside the contour map. For the damage, I don't have that kind of message on the contour map. It is a question of whether or not a damage is caused by natural gas extraction. However, you have to work in a practical way. The NAM has put all the earthquakes that have occurred, with the area on which those earthquakes have impacted, on a map. There comes a certain area in Groningen. Then they enlarged that area to all sides by a few kilometers. That is the contour map and they use it for the practice of their work. Experience has shown that the damage outside the contours is not caused by natural gas extraction. That was investigated by Arcadis and this was the outcome. Next, the National Coordinator said: this is not the last word, I will have Delft University of Technology validate that research and he will advise me what the significance of that research is and how it should be handled. In the meantime, all damage cases are recorded outside the contour. The NAM has already promised that these people will also have a damage expert who will look at their damage. That makes sense, too. However, the NAM has chosen to wait for the validation of Arcadis' research, which says that there is no link to the extraction of natural gas, and to see what comes out of it, because then they know where they stand. Then these people can also get a visit from a damage expert and the damage can be treated. It is therefore damage outside the area, the experience of which has so far been that these are not related to the extraction of natural gas. Nevertheless, they do get that visit. That's about the contour map and the point about damage. I would just like to point out that the term 'damage' is being used, as Mr Vos pointed out. It concerns damage occurring in the area caused by mining. That's the idea. In the case of mining damage, there are two possibilities. It can be translated in the form of earthquakes, but also in the form of soil movement. Soil movement is very gradual over a large area. It is not obvious that this will result in damage. In addition, soil movement is also caused by a decrease in groundwater levels. For agricultural reasons, this is done by the waterboards. If there is damage due to soil decline, then it is still the question of where the soil decline is caused by it. We must always see the whole thing in such a way that everything that is caused by natural gas extraction, whether it is in one form or another, must be compensated. Where we are still talking about the arbitrator's earthquake damage, it must ultimately be the case that the legal text as it stands in the Civil Code,'mining damage', is also used for the arbitrators. In order to prepare for this, there is a need for a wide range of consultations with interested parties. That's happening right now. My intention is to consistently use the legal term "mining damage" and translate it into the work of the arbitrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u10	Damage can sometimes have multiple causes. It may be that a crack is caused by the fact that a house is not the strongest built, that the water level has also decreased and that a soil movement in any form has been overcome. It's possible. The question is how sharp you have to cut with a pair of scissors to record all the damage when you think in advance that something is or is not earthquake damage. I am pleased that the Minister, following the example of the National Coordinator Groningen, says that the contour maps will not be used as a hard dividing line. However, we can see that this is still happening and that the damage in humans is not being recorded. I heard the minister say that the NAM is waiting for the validation of the TU Delft research. That is not fair to the people who suffer from damage, because they did not cause that damage. Regardless of who is responsible for that account, whether it is the waterboard or the NAM, or perhaps some of the people themselves, the damage must be recorded first. Does the Minister agree with D66 that we should at least ensure that everyone who has damage receives compensation, so that we can then assess who should be responsible for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u11	I disagree that this wouldn't be fair. At the moment, the contour map is used, with all earthquakes in the area being processed. A margin will be taken: the area will be enlarged. It's being handled. I can understand that for practical reasons, but that does not mean, for me, that damage caused outside that area by natural gas extraction must also be compensated. This is the subject of discussion, in particular because Arcadis has found damage caused outside that contour area by soil degradation and that such damage cannot be related to natural gas extraction. That's what's going on. We're not basing ourselves on that, but let's get that validated first. We'll see what comes out of that. We will then proceed on the basis of the conclusions we draw. I think it's good to do that. It took a while. I don't think it's gonna take that long. The validation should be completed and the process continued thereafter. Anyone who's checked in is registered. Everyone who's registered gets a visit from a damage taxi. Then we'll get back to business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u12	It's not fair that if you have damage to your home for which you are not responsible, you have to wait months until you get a ruling whether your home is safe. Apart from the question of who will ultimately have to pay the bill for that, I really do not run away from the fact that there is sometimes late maintenance. There can be no financial barrier for people in the sense that they have to wait months because they cannot afford it. Those people may be in an unsafe situation. Apart from who will eventually have to compensate for the damage, that can be the waterboard or the NAM; it really won't always have to go to the NAM, shouldn't that recording just be done as soon as people get hurt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u13	It is not the case that only in the area of earthquakes there is damage. There is damage to houses throughout the country, sometimes because houses are misconstructed, sometimes because they are poorly maintained, sometimes because wrong renovations have been carried out and sometimes because of sinkings in the soil, which occur all over the country. There are all kinds of reasons why you can have damage to houses. Of course, it is not the case that anyone who lives near the earthquake area and who has some kind of damage can expect an immediate compensation from the NAM. That's why a system has been set up. I think that's a good system. It must always be maintained that if damage is caused by natural gas extraction, the damage must be compensated by the NAM. It's always gonna stay up. In the implementation a discussion is taking place because of the research of Arcadis and the validation. I intend to conclude this discussion as soon as possible. In the meantime, everything is registered for everyone. Then the visits to the people will be made and the matter will be dealt with further. I think that's how we're gonna handle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u14	Finally, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u15	The Minister does not hear me say that the NAM must compensate all damages throughout the Netherlands. He also does not hear me say that nowhere in the Netherlands any other damage could occur beyond the fault of the residents. However, we are talking about an area in which we have been working together for four years to restore people's confidence in the government. Is it really so difficult in that region, where there is at least a good chance that the problems of earthquake or soil movement and other problems are converging?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u16	There's not a great chance. We shouldn't say there's a big chance. The area in which damage caused by earthquakes can reasonably be expected is the area identified by all earthquakes so far and which has also been enlarged. That's the area where you can reasonably expect that damage. Beyond that, you cannot reasonably expect that damage, but that does not mean that there can never be anything related to earthquakes caused by natural gas extraction. This means that there must also be an adequate response outside that contour. I have just explained the way in which we are dealing with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u17	I would like to comment on the point raised by Mrs Van Veldhoven. I have here a letter from the Association Eigen Huis, which sounds the alarm clock because the damage recovery stagnates with large groups of residents and which also questions the numbers mentioned. After all, the numbers of the NAM do not correspond to the numbers of the National Coordinator and of the Centre Secure Living. The Vereniging Eigen Huis states that there is certainly no agreement on the settlement of damages in 16,000 cases and perhaps in 21,000 cases. That is a huge amount, and that is a different figure than the one the Minister is talking about. To come back specifically to the contour card: the Minister promised that all damages, even outside the contour card, would be recorded. According to the Association Eigen Huis, there are 3,300 reports outside the contour map that do not lead to anyone coming to see it. That's a huge number, isn't it? Those aren't just any other kind of damage, are they? Isn't that where you have to go, at least for those people, to absorb that damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u18	I have just gone into the last point three times. I don't think there's any point in doing that for the fourth time. The first point was that the figures differ. I think the numbers are very consistent. The figures of the CVW, the National Coordinator and the NAM regarding the damage are broadly consistent: in general 66,000 claims have been made, 60,000 offers have been made and agreement has been reached on this in 80% of the cases. This means that no agreement has been reached in 20% of the cases. This has several causes, for example because after weeks and months there is no response to an offer from the Centre Safe Living. That happens and then no agreement has been reached, but there is no misunderstanding about the figures I have mentioned in the area. I would also like to explain these figures to the Chamber on every occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u19	Thanks for the explanation, but the fact remains that thousands of people have not yet agreed on their damage. I really do achieve quite different stories from Groningers, namely that there is a fuss about whether or not there's a counter-expertise, stuff about confidentiality statements, stuff about really everything and that these people are all over the water. But I'm going to go into those 3,300 reports outside the contour area. The Minister says: I explained that three times, we are waiting for a validation. But what does that mean specifically? A number of inspections have been carried out in that area. It's been concluded that it has nothing to do with earthquakes. Does that mean, if it comes from validation that it has nothing to do with earthquakes, that those 3,300 people will not be visited?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u20	We should perhaps ask ourselves whether we ourselves are not causing unrest in the area because of the words we choose. Mrs. Klever says there's some stuff about counter-expertise and secrecy stuff. There's no fuss about the counter-expertise. We have set up the scheme in such a way that a valuer goes to all those who have and sign up for damage. That valuer does not go there with the order to keep the costs as low as possible. He goes there from the Centre for Safe Living, which is also supervised, with the task of looking at the damage there, the cause of it and the cost of repairing it. If the person concerned, the person who reported the damage, does not agree with it, he is simply entitled to a counter-expertise. The costs are also paid by the Centre for Safe Living. If the person also disagrees with that counter-expertise, so far there has still been an opportunity to get another valuer. In the meantime, we have set up the arrangement in such a way that there is a separate arbitrator, who can go there as a kind of moving judge and make a decision there as soon as possible. If the person concerned does not agree with that, he can also go to court. It's a very neat procedure, which is all about reporting the damage and trying to do the damage reporter justice. I'll tell you about the secrecy later. Or maybe I can do that right away, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u21	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u22	The point is that in a number of cases an agreement is entered into between the NAM and often a complex case, with an amount being paid for reimbursement. It says in the agreement that there is secrecy. The background to this is that if people do not want data on the streets, those data do not enter the streets. We shall now see, as a result of the debate that has arisen, that the next line is being followed. If the damage detector concerned, the person causing the damage to the agreement, wants to talk about the amount of the debt also about all the cases so far laid down in agreements, he has the freedom to do so. He can just do that, despite what it says in that agreement. The agreements that will be concluded from now on will only include confidentiality if it is at the request of the creditor; in other cases it will not. On the part of the NAM, there will in any case be no active and passive communication on compensation. This is entirely left to the damage detector and the one that is part of the contract concluded as a damage detector. Mrs Klever also asked what that validation means. This validation means that under the guidance of an expert at the Technical University in Delft, the entire Arcadis research will be built up. It looks at the assumptions, the conclusions that have been drawn and the systematics that have been followed. Furthermore, Delft University of Technology looks at and assesses what Arcadis has done. That's the validation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u23	Can the Minister guarantee that regardless of the outcome of that validation all the 3,300 damage cases outside the contour area will be visited and that the damage will be recorded there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u24	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u25	The Minister has dealt with a number of things which, for my group, are also the crux of the debate, regardless of the peace in the housing market. I'm really still struggling with the term "earthquake damage." I'm also still struggling with the function of contours. The reality is that small damages are all handled. I think a very large percentage is being handled well. Then it's about clear cracks. I was just in Woldendorp. That's well beyond the contours. 70% to 80% of the village is damaged. The housing corporation has been working on these houses for a long time, but people with a place to buy don't hear anything or they're told it's C-damage. I'm not an expert in damage qualification, but it's not C-damage, I swear. Looking at this region, on cut clay and on soil and who knows about the subsurface, distinguishing itself from other parts of the province, I think: this is heterogeneous substrate. Both the subsurface, as well as the upper layer, as well as of course what is on it, and I refer to the terpen, canals, locks, the type of houses and the types of foundations chosen: it is so heterogeneous that you cannot say that you have an even bottom drop across the board and that you can therefore determine the earthquake damage separately from those factors. I don't think that's possible. Arcadis said something. Yesterday the Technical Committee on Soil Movement told us that she was not impressed by that report. Now that is validated by another group. When are we gonna be done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u26	You can be done very quickly. If you make your decision right away, you'll be done in one day. What are we doing? Before we take a decision on the area outside the contours, let us first carry out an investigation by an expert agency, Arcadis, and draw up a report on it, on which we could base ourselves. Then we decide not to. If we had, we would have been back on track and could have rejected everything. We'll have it validated first to find out what another of that report thinks of the research method and the conclusions. Then we're gonna draw our conclusions. Meanwhile, all notifications are registered. In any case, all reports are followed by an injury assessment, as I have just said. I think we're doing it the best we can. I appreciate it very much when a Member of Parliament goes into the area, forms an opinion and brings it into this Chamber. Mr Smaling does that. Others do, too. I'm guessing everyone's been there many times. That goes for me, too. However, it makes no sense if Mr Smaling says, or if I say, that something is C-damage, B-damage or A-damage. That's not how it works. We need to get it done in an orderly manner, by people who are expert in it. That's why we founded the Safe Living Center. He'll have to do that with valuers. If these do not come to something in which the damage detector can find itself, then what I have just said happens: a counter-expertise is carried out, an arbitrator comes into play and, if you do not agree with it, a judge comes into play. That's all gonna happen. This is done to ensure that damages are handled in a responsible manner. I find it irresponsible, with all due respect to Mr Smaling, if he, or I, would say that it is A-, B- or C-damage. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u27	This is not good in two respects. If you look at the state I showed you from the CVW, you'll see a significant increase in C-damage throughout the year. You don't tell me that they were suddenly at all kinds of objects and concluded that it's C-damage. It's just been chosen to award more C-damage when it wasn't at first. You're just getting that out of the graph seamlessly. The other point is that the Minister is now also abusing the concept of "contour." He has always said to the Chamber: the contour serves purely and exclusively as the basis for the reinforcement programme and is linked to the NPR Directive, and the contour is used for this. The original damage map of the area does not follow the contours at all. That's where the eastern area of Delfzijl is already located. That's where the areas around the contours are already generously located. So don't do that, because it clouds the discussion about looking at damage and indicating and compensating damage if you keep getting the contour. I don't think that's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u28	The Chamber wants to talk to me about contours and asks me about them. Then, when I go into that, Mr Smaling says that I should not do that. But should I ignore what the Chamber has brought forward? I explained exactly what that contour map means. I hesitate to do so for the third time, but that map shows all the earthquakes and the area in which those earthquakes have had an impact. This is made clear with the first line, the so-called "blue line." The extension of that area by a few kilometres is represented by the so-called "red line." We can reasonably assume that the damage in that area was caused by earthquakes caused by natural gas extraction. However, you also have to look at the area outside, and we let Arcadis do that. A validation has taken place and conclusions will be drawn on this basis. The claims outside that area will then be assessed. Mr Smaling points out that what I said about those figures is not true. I'm sorry he said that. I merely note that there has been a sharp increase in the number of reports of damage at a time when seismicity has been reduced and so there have been fewer earthquakes. At the same time, it is increasingly observed that the damage reported is not caused by earthquakes. That all seems logical to me and in line with what we see. There are fewer earthquakes, but there are more reports of damage, and more and more reports show that the damage was not caused by natural gas extraction and earthquakes, but has a different cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u29	There could also be cumulative damage, couldn't there? If your house keeps getting ticked, isn't it so crazy that those cracks become visible at some point and there is a level of damage that requires repair? That's very likely, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u30	There are all kinds of things reasonable and plausible. I can also very well imagine that we are still coming to the conclusion that, despite the sharp decline in seismicity, new reports are still coming. In almost half of these cases, these reports are also honoured. However, it is remarkable that there is an increase in the number of claims, while seismicity is decreasing. A large proportion of these reports conclude that there is no damage related to earthquakes, and that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u31	There's a lot to do about the damage settlement. I would like to come back to the Centre for Safe Living, because that is an important place at this point. I hear very often from the people of Groningen that they feel that the NAM is in control there. Not only those people have that feeling, even the chairman of the supervisory committee has given an interview in which he said he would very much like to see the Centre Safe Living at a greater distance from the NAM. He also said that the Centre for Safe Living should be given more executive responsibility and that it should be given more room for ex post accountability to the NAM instead of having to ask for prior authorisation before it can start working on a project. I take these comments to heart, precisely because it is an opinion of the supervisory committee. How does the Minister feel about this? Does he want to get to work on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u32	I am convinced that the Centre for Safe Living is a very important step forward. It was removed from the NAM and a separate organization has been set up. I know that the people who work at that organization come from the area themselves and are very motivated to deal with all claims in a proper manner. They want to ensure that the damage is repaired and compensated as soon as possible. I am convinced that the Centre for Safe Living is doing a very conscientious and good job. I appreciate the supervisory committee, but I think it is a big deal for organisations, supervisors and committees. We have now also visualized the National Coordinator. He has drawn all the complex cases to him, but I think it would be good if he was also supervised by the Centre for Safe Living. I will take a decision on this shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u33	I am pleased that the National Coordinator is getting a position in that. But to give the National Coordinator that position, the ties between the Centre Safe Living and the NAM will have to be established differently. The distribution of responsibilities must change. Of course, the NAM is responsible for the damage and the payment thereof, but the Safe Living Centre should have the freedom to determine what is going on and to fix a damage amount etc. Surely it can't be that the NAM has to give prior consent to that? The NAM will have to cross the bridge afterwards. That method will have to be turned upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u34	I am convinced that the working methods of the Safe Living Centre are sufficiently independent. If there are any claims, a damage taxi will be sent. He has the opportunity to draw up a report. That can be decided quickly. In practice, that all works out fine. There will always be NAM's involvement in that process in one form or another, because eventually the account has to be paid by NAM. The NAM is not just an agency that gets orders to transfer money to a bank account number. No, it's an organization with its own responsibility to answer for what it does. A certain involvement in the settlement of damages will therefore always be there, especially in the larger cases. I must therefore make sure that there is sufficiently strong supervision of not too many bodies in addition to the Safe Living Centre, which, I believe, operates at a sufficient distance. In this case, I think it would be very good to burden the National Coordinator with this. So I've actually done three procedures. Firstly, the Centre for Safe Living has been established. Secondly, the complex cases have been removed from the Centre for Safe Living. Thirdly, I am considering having the National Coordinator also carry out supervision of the Centre for Safe Living. I think I've created a very workable situation with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u35	The Minister considers that the Safe Living Centre operates independently of the NAM. However, the chairman of the supervisory committee says that it is not sufficiently independent. I'd like the Minister to give in to his considerations. I hope he still wants to talk to the chairman of the supervisory committee to see how we can increase the distance between the NAM and the Centre for Safe Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u36	I'm ultimately responsible. I'm also accountable here. I'll make sure things are done carefully. I'm talking to everyone involved in this. I'll draw my own conclusions. I'll make sure that what I think is necessary is done. I answer for this in Parliament. The supervisor doesn't; I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u37	I am now the fifth or sixth speaker in a row with interruptions. I actually hear the Minister say: my policy is good in all respects, I have the responsibility and I have given it a lot of thought. I'm the spokesman on the policy of three whole ministries and half of the e-mail I receive is about Groningen and Groningers at all levels. The spokesmen have all given examples. I have given the example of health research. You can blame people for not using the damages for repairs, but if their health goes down, something really is going on. Then the Minister can say: I am working for it, but it is not yet possible; but he says: the procedures are in order. In all the areas mentioned so far by all the spokesmen with suggestions for improvement, the Minister's consistent answer is: I am fine, I am responsible, I have looked at it and it is true. How can it be explained that the perception of a lot of people in the area is so different? This applies not only to the citizens, but also to the people in administrative positions, a large proportion of the spokesmen here and the people of the Provincial States of Groningen who are asking for a parliamentary survey. Does the Minister see an opportunity for movement on a number of subjects or is everything going well in his opinion and is the Chamber incredibly whining, if I may charge for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u38	I'm not doing very well in Groningen. I am very concerned about the situation in Groningen. As a result of decades of natural gas extraction, people are confronted with earthquakes that have a major impact on people, on the safety and security of people, on schools, businesses, economy and monuments. There's a lot wrong there. Everything must be done about that and it is my responsibility to do so. If I thought my policy wasn't right, I'd change it immediately. I am also constantly looking at new insights and new data where things can and do better. So it is not a static policy, it is a policy that is in full swing. This policy is also influenced by the exchange of views I constantly have with the directors, people and organisations in the area, and not least with the Chamber. There is every reason to be concerned and to see if what we are doing is enough and if not, what else needs to be done. I'm working on that all the time. Mrs Van Tongeren calls it health research. I would answer that if I were to answer her questions. I can already say that these signals should be taken very seriously in my opinion. Such an investigation is not done for nothing and it has produced those findings for a reason. I can imagine that it will have all kinds of effects if you are constantly confronted with that uncertainty. I have already said what I am doing: reducing natural gas extraction and then ensuring good damage recovery. I'll be back on the reinforcement program later. Then there are all kinds of things around there for special cases. I would also like to mention the strengthening of the economy. Everything is being done, and it is also necessary to do justice to the people in the area who are confronted with a problem that they have not caused and why they have not asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u39	I am glad that the Minister has said this so clearly. It just sounded a little like the current policy is solving all the problems. I made a specific suggestion and there was a question underneath. For residents with some more complicated damage it is an incredible quest they have to go to, what they can and what they can do. In the Netherlands, anyone can go to court. I have previously proposed with, I believe, Arie Slob of the Christian Union that the Minister to the Northern Court should consider setting up a mining damage chamber with specialised judges. The advantage is that that room is about everything, bottom descent et cetera, and doesn't have to stick to contour maps. Moreover, it is automatically binding and public because it is a court of law, and it creates precedents that make it clear what is happening in the next case. Is the Minister prepared, in addition to all the policies which he thinks are sufficient to solve the problem, to enter into consultation with the President of the Court to see if this might be a supplement for people who feel well-mannered and report to MPs in large groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u40	No, because that room's already here. I'm not gonna ask for anything that's already there. There's already a separate room at the courthouse. My job is to make sure things don't get to court. This is what I did. The expert who is sent to damage must really go there to determine the damage and the cause of it and to ensure proper compensation and recovery. If that doesn't work, a second damage taxpayer can go on behalf of the Centre for Safe Living. If that doesn't work out, we'll send an arbitrator. He looks at what happened on the spot and can make a ruling on it. I've arranged for that ruling to be binding on the NAM. The NAM must therefore carry out what the arbitrator says. Of course, it may always be the case that the person concerned, who has already had a second damage taxi and has received a ruling from the arbitrator, does not yet agree and goes to court. There is already a separate room available for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u41	The decision of the arbitrator shall not be binding on the water boards. You're about to get a split between earthquake damage and soil decline. That's impossible for people to follow. If there is already a separate room at the courthouse, are there any obstacles to why people don't use them? For example, would that be in the question that the Minister is likely to answer, as well as the lack of legal aid and the lack of opportunities for people to designate a valuer that is not on the approved list of the counterparty, i.e. the NAM or the NAM. The Centrum Safe Living?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u42	I find it a pity to talk about a counterparty, because the party that we have organised with the Centre for Safe Living and the National Coordinator is also not a counterpart to the people in Groningen. We are here to do justice to the people of Groningen. That's what we're doing. The arbitrator, Mrs Van Tongeren says, is not binding on the waterboard, and of course that is not possible either. Natural gas extraction has caused earthquakes and if damage has been caused, the winner of natural gas, the NAM, is responsible for this. But if something has been done somewhere in an area near Groningen or in Groningen by a waterboard itself with the groundwater level causing a soil decrease, and there would be damage as a result of that soil decrease, then the NAM is not liable and that arbitrator is not in the picture either. The arbitrator is in the picture for all cases where the problem is caused by the person who wins the natural gas, being the NAM. Secondly, Mrs Van Tongeren asked about legal aid. As elsewhere in the country, anyone in Groningen can insure themselves for legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u43	I am, and with me probably many Groningers, grateful to the Minister for the fact that, in accordance with Article 177 of the Civil Code, he now wishes to use the term 'damage by soil movement' instead of 'earthquake damage'. Because many people in Groningen are frustrated because they are confronted with reports from the NAM or with decisions by the minister that state "earthquake damage" when it comes to "damage from soil movement." In my opinion, however, the damage caused by soil movement is a little more complex than the Minister is now explaining. There is the fact that the soil is falling due to gas extraction. Then there may be compaction and discharge that affects the soil. There may also be an adjustment of the water level through the water shelf due to the decrease in gas extraction. There may also be damage to settings. I think you can also speak of damage caused by the fall in the soil due to gas extraction. So it's a little more complex. I am sorry to use this explanation, but it shows how difficult it is for the citizens of Groningen to recover their damage. How can a citizen who is confronted with a valuer who says it is a C-damage be justified by this story with the right parties? Can the Minister explain that one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u44	Again, if there has been a valuer who arrives at a conclusion that the person concerned does not agree with, a second valuer may be created. If the person concerned does not yet agree, an arbitrator may be called. It goes to the location, talks to the people and then comes to a verdict. That is the arrangement we have made with each other, and I think that is a very good one. Mr Vos says: first it is about earthquake damage and then you find out that it is actually about mining damage. We've all started the earthquake problem together, and that's what we've been working for. It's never like what we do is perfect. We must always check whether we are clear enough and whether we have organized it properly. I believe that we must be consistent in the way we put it. The starting point is what's in the Civil Code. Mining damage comes in two forms: earthquake damage and damage caused by soil degradation. In the event of earthquakes, the damage is caused by natural gas extraction. Soil decrease can have several causes. If soil decline is caused by natural gas extraction, that is one point, because then we still have to look at whether the soil decline caused damage to a building, which is not obvious. If that is the case, then the damage must be compensated. I can't make it any brighter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u45	This valuer works under the Centrum Safe Living Protocol and that protocol is based on contours and concepts as defined by the Centrum Safe Living. These concepts are sometimes closer to what we are discussing here today. The literal text of the Mining Act and what is formulated about it in the Civil Code make it extremely difficult for residents to do their story within the contours of the valuation process. That means that after a second valuer has been in place, they have to come out. That may have been an arbitrator's earthquake damage, but it's now being widened. So it's about the bottom descent in terms of the waterboards. When it comes to the waterboards, should they separately hold the waterboard in question liable? I can hardly explain it here as a Member of Parliament, so let alone when faced with it as a resident. Then you have to hold several parties liable and seek legal assistance, otherwise you will not come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u46	Of course, it's never simple. There's damage to homes all over the country. I have already said that this could have all kinds of causes. It can find its cause in the soil. It may be that somewhere underneath a house there is a ditch that is muffled which makes the ground different from any other place near that house, causing settlement and damage. It may also be that somewhere in an area the waterboard has changed the groundwater level and that this has had effects. Things that happen elsewhere in the country can also happen in Groningen. Where in Groningen there is a dominant factor, namely the extraction of natural gas, if there are reports of damage to someone from the Centre for Safe Living, you have to go there to see if there is soil decline or anything related to natural gas extraction, in which case the damage has to be determined and compensated. So that's what we're doing. There really is no need to call in a second valuer. My intention is that, in all cases, one valuer should be sufficient, because it comes with a good analysis and a reasonable proposal, so that the damage can be repaired. If that is not the case, then there is the possibility of a second valuer and then the arbitrator. The situation in that area, as elsewhere in the country, is 100% understandable for all individual cases. Of course, there can be all kinds of different insights, on the basis of which a decision has to be made. That must also be done in Groningen. I don't think we should make it any harder on ourselves than it is. As far as natural gas extraction is concerned, it is our intention and everything is intended to compensate for the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u47	Does the Minister agree with me that Article 177 of the Civil Code on damage caused by the construction or operation of a mining works also includes damage caused by soil degradation after which a waterboard had to adjust the groundwater level and damage caused by compaction, i.e. discharge of the soil decline?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u48	I don't want to make a statement like that. If Mr Vos thinks that this point needs clarification, I will try to clarify it. In fact, I think that Mr Vos has a point when he says that we should change the name of the arbitrator again, so what about those protocols of the Centre for Safe Living? I think it is my job, together with the National Coordinator, to ensure that the same wording is consistently used in all cases where there may be uncertainty. I will make every effort to achieve that. This point by Mr Vos seems reasonable to me. I now come to talk about strengthening the homes. In the beginning we spoke too easily, or let me say, about strengthening the houses. That's because of the pressure. The Bureau of Rossum had conducted an investigation on behalf of the province. It said that 170,000 homes in the area should be strengthened. That has, of course, had a huge impact on the area, and also here in the Chamber. In the Winning Plan of the NAM other numbers came into view. This is what is then worn out. A number of about 2,000 homes emerged from this, which, due to uncertainty, would still have to exceed a factor of 2.5-3. I myself completed that upstairs at the time. This means that in my image 10,000 to 12,000 homes should be reinforced. Last year, I think 1,100 homes were reinforced. We're working on a follow-up to this right now. But we, and I, should not underestimate all the effects of this. Well, for starters, you need to know what properties this is about. You don't know how many homes we're talking about right now. In fact, the extraction plan of the NAM that is now before us does not mention thousands, but several hundred homes. Moreover, this number is related to a size of 33 billion m of gas extraction, while we are now at 27 billion m. So the number of homes is much lower than we thought at first, but which homes they are, we don't know exactly. Now, here's what we're gonna do. We continue all the programs we've set up to strengthen homes that are still running. We do this together with the housing corporations in the area and linked to the zero-on-the-meter houses. We are now focusing on an inspection programme which looks at exactly which homes we should tackle. Houses are therefore viewed individually. We shouldn't underestimate that. Someone's in his apartment and there's an inspector coming at him to see exactly what's going on with the need for reinforcement of his home. Something like this often means that ordinary people open the ceilings, that in such a house things have to be done with walls and floors. So that's not something you just do for a while; you have to talk to those people about it quietly. Then a conclusion has been drawn with regard to that home. We may agree that it needs to be strengthened, but perhaps those people already had in mind to make it a life-supporting home, because they are getting older and want to live on the ground floor. And maybe those people would have thought about doing something about sustainability. They want to talk about the possibility of combining these things. There is therefore a great deal to be done in order to actually strengthen in a responsible way. If you do that, people have to leave their homes in a large number of cases. Then we have to have another house available. The house must then be dealt with. After that, people have to go back. This also requires the necessary consultation and time. We are now ensuring, with a great deal of human strength, that these inspections are carried out and that, if there is a result, agreement is reached with the people on what is to be done. Then we're gonna do it. When it comes to rental houses, we try to make as many appointments as possible with the corporations at the same time. Because this often means very good results for the corporations and the people in those rental homes, we hope that we can quickly make meters. But let us at least be glad that there are no more 170,000 houses at all, which were once mentioned. It's a lot less housing now. This is a result of the reduced seismicity, which also reduces the problem. Strengthening remains a major and important task, which has the attention of the National Coordinator and of me, because this is a crucial point for improving the situation in Groningen. Then there's the school program. We have begun to give priority to strengthening schools. Schools are large buildings with lots of glass where children are present all day with the teachers. It is clear that there are risks there. We have said that we must proceed quickly with this. We have said: we can do that quickly; there are 101 schools and let us strengthen them all. That is not wise, however, because there is shrinking in that area. There are also fewer children in that area, as in the rest of the Netherlands. There is also a certain ageing in the Netherlands. Moreover, you have to look at developments in education. If you are going to do such a big operation with the schools in Groningen, it is best to do so in such a way that there is a result that has added value for Groningen, so Groningen does not see a problem solved, but that something happens in Groningen that is more beautiful and better than in the rest of the country. People really have something to be happy about, because it's good for them. Against this background, we have started to work with the schools. In particular, the National Coordinator has started to do so. He's spoken to all the people involved. In the end, out of 101 schools, 41 could be strengthened in a responsible way and 29 completely new schools built. These 70 schools form the future-proof stock of schools. That took a lot of money. I have already indicated that EUR 290 million has finally been made available for this purpose. We're gonna do this as soon as we can. This should be completed by 2020. Then we really did something good for Groningen. I also think that Groningen has every right to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u49	I have a brief question about the school program. It's nice to have a solution. The Christian Union has also insisted on this. However, there are a lot of schools that need to close down. There are reasons for this, such as developments in the area, in particular the ageing population. As far as we are concerned, however, there should be no pressure for cooperation or merger of denominations. I realise that this also affects the educational portfolio, but can the Minister, on behalf of the cabinet, promise that there will be no compulsion for a merger of denominations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u50	I am very grateful to my colleagues from OCW for their involvement in what is happening in the school programme in Groningen. It is an additional task for them in which they are very involved and in which they have very much supported me in order to find a solution. I would like to leave the precise translation to the individual schools to those responsible. Of course, you can have multiple schools in a building. I'm already hearing that there are classes in which students come from different schools. I am not an expert in this area and cannot say to what extent this is all desirable and justified. I would like to leave that to my very concerned colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u51	I regret that the Minister, who is ultimately responsible for everything related to the earthquake problem, cannot make a commitment to this. We will discuss this again in the debate with the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u52	It is my fate to disappoint Mrs Dik-Faber from time to time, Mr President. I regret that every time. Mr. Chairman. I'm here to talk about the housing market. The housing market development in Groningen has my constant attention, because I think this is one of the benchmarks to see if our policy is successful. Our policy is to reduce natural gas extraction. It's been halved by now. The policy is also aimed at adequate damage treatment. The backup should be good. The economic development of the region must be encouraged. We must ensure that all the things that are being done there in connection with the earthquakes provide something extra for the area. Ultimately, the effect must be that the housing market in Groningen is not worse than that in similar areas. If that works, we'll be a long way away. It's not that far. There is a specific problem in the area. In doing so, we must realise the magnitude of the problem. The problems in the housing market arose in that area from the year 2012. If you compare the prices of housing in the area with the prices of housing in similar areas elsewhere in the country, you can see that according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, housing prices elsewhere in the country have increased by 0.2% since 2012 and housing prices in the Groningen area have fallen by 1.4%. So the problem is between that plus of 0.2% and that minus of 1.4%. It will of course be less for some houses while for other houses it will be more. I'll get back to you in a minute. This is about the margin of the problem. What am I doing? I have a good record of the problem. At the beginning of my presidency, I set up a separate agency to analyse it. After that, I moved to the Central Bureau of Statistics, and that is what it is very closely monitoring. Based on his figures, I'm following developments. I can see that developments in both areas, both in Groningen and in the reference areas, are now almost identical. That is a positive development. However, I am not satisfied with that, because I also want the difference to be made up. A lot of measures have been taken, some of which I have already mentioned: the economic impetus, the school programme and the extra attention given to the chemical cluster in the area. Furthermore, Groningen becomes a test area for 5G. So I have taken all kinds of measures to do some extras there. Ultimately, the result must be that we achieve our goal. Whether our policies are successful can be seen in the development of the housing market, which must then be equal to the development elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u53	Mrs. Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u54	Mr President, I would like to add myself to your wishes. However, the previous President's idea was that I would finish a subject and then be interrupted. If you want to do otherwise, of course, I'd be happy to leave it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u55	I see Mrs Klever thinks it's a good idea, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u56	Mr. Chairman. We have taken measures to respond adequately to developments in the housing market; I indicated that the problem is between 0.2% and 1.4%. The first major measure was the increase in value. If you live in the area and you have a damage to your home of €1,000 or more, then the amount of €1,000 damages will rise to €4,000 for solar panels or other forms of sustainability of your home. That money has to help, too. Moreover, a depreciation scheme has also been set up for the area. That depreciation scheme means that the lesser is reimbursed if a lower price is achieved for a property in the area than would be expected. If you sell your property and you believe that you have been given too little for your property due to the earthquake problem, an assessment will be made. If it turns out that is the case, then the difference with the amount you have collected will be reimbursed. A pilot scheme has also been set up for people who actually want something different and whose home is for sale for more than a year. On the basis of the pilot, we are looking at exactly what is going on; we want to have hard figures. There were 800 properties in the area that were for sale for more than a year. During the month of May, we gave people the opportunity to report if they wanted to offer their property for sale. 179 homes have been reported for this purpose, but 20% of these homes were outside the earthquake zone as I described earlier. We have only looked at the earthquake area, where the problem is most acute. In the end, we have found that 117 of these homes could be eligible for purchase. That is 15% of the number of homes in the earthquake area that were available for sale for more than a year. Half of these 117 applications consisted of people who were planning to live smaller but wanted to move into the same area. What remains is half of those 117 cases; those are people who want to leave the area. We shall now proceed with this pilot with the amount of 10 million made available for this purpose. We are going to see how that works and whether it can contribute to solving the housing market problems in the area. That's what I want to do now. I would like to move on to the various measures I have just listed, the depreciation scheme, the appreciation scheme and the buy-back scheme pilot, to see what their effects are. If it is necessary to discuss this further or if there seems to be a need to reach different conclusions or to draw certain conclusions from that pilot, we will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u57	My first question concerns the decline in the value of housing. The Minister talks about the CBS report, but the CBS only looks at properties sold while the problem in Groningen is that most properties are not sold. That's what the Minister himself says: 800 homes have been on the market for over a year. Secondly, the average decrease in value will be lower as the defined area increases. Fortunately, we also have the University of Groningen, which has done more specific research into the decline in the value of housing. It concludes that the decrease in value in some cores is on average up to €26,000 per home. In Loppersum, for example, it is 10% of the value of the property, just like in Ten Boer. Does the Minister recognise this report from the University of Groningen and these figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u58	There are a lot of reports. They are valuable, and we must all take them into our own hands, and we must try to take advantage of them. The Central Bureau of Statistics is following what is actually happening. We have set the percentages I have just mentioned. The Central Statistical Office has established this. I don't think it's better to have them established. That doesn't mean I'm gonna get rid of the problem. I find this very serious problem, as well as the fact that homes are for sale for a long time. Not only in Groningen, but also elsewhere in the country have many properties been for sale for a long time. Currently, according to the CBS, developments in the housing market in Groningen are similar to those in other parts of the country. There's still a catch-up to catch up on. Something must be done. That 10 million-dollar pilot is there for a reason. Anyone could sign up for this in May. I just gave the figures on that. We're gonna do this. Mrs Klever also spoke about Loppersum. I do not know when she was last in Loppersum, but the situation there is the most improved of the whole area. Loppersum was the most problematic area, but is now quiet in seismicity. People experience it the same way. That is a real boost that we needed for the direction we want to take, namely improvement for the whole area with a housing market similar to that in other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u59	I kind of feel like the Minister doesn't recognize that report from the University of Groningen. He wonders when I was last in Loppersum, but I don't think that matters at all. The point is that the University of Groningen has carried out a study and has started to look very specifically at the decline in the value of housing in certain areas. It comes to very different conclusions than the Central Statistical Office. I am sorry that the Minister does not acknowledge this, because the buy-out scheme is very thin, which brings me to my next question. People who are eligible under all these conditions will be reimbursed 95% of the current valuation value. However, if the value of that property has fallen so dramatically, 95% of the current valuation value is not enough. People can't even pay off their mortgage debts. Is the Minister aware of this? Is he willing to look at 95% of the valuation value before the problems in Groningen occurred, namely the WPA value of 1 January 2012?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u60	It is a pity when we say that things are not right without really having to say so. It would not be good for us to say that the Centre for Safe Living is no good, because the Centre for Safe Living is doing its best to do its job well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u61	I didn't say that, did I?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u62	It is also not good if we say that the Central Statistical Office is not doing its job properly. This organisation is completely focused on doing the job well, understands very well how serious the problem is in Groningen and tries to give a good picture of this problem. They do, and they said what I just explained about it. For the buy-back scheme, the buy-back scheme for Moerdijk has been modelled. We have experience with such a buy-back scheme and that 95% comes from it. For Groningen, this 95% is also the difference of about 2%; I mentioned the plus 0.2% and the minus 1.4%. Then you get about 97% of the market value reimbursed, if your property is bought up. That is a very real, good arrangement. Not everywhere in the country the market value of a house can be immediately converted into cash. You can do that in Groningen, if you're eligible for the buy-back scheme. I'm not saying that buy-back is the final answer. It's part of the answer. Besides, it's a pilot. I believe that the measures we have taken, including this pilot, are in the right direction, which can ultimately lead to the cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u63	I'm sure Mrs Mulder will continue with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u64	That's a good assessment on your part. The debate has been requested by my group, supported by all the other groups here, because of this report by the University of Groningen. I wonder what possibilities the Minister sees for this report to be complementary to the CBS figures. I am curious to see to what extent it could be a good addition to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u65	My policy is not to make reports complement each other. Reports I think are necessary, I'll have them prepared myself. Others come up with reports, too. One time there is a report from the Van Rossum office stating that 170,000 homes need to be strengthened, the other time there is a report from the University of Groningen on a particular problem. I take all these reports seriously. I look at what we can do with it and try to make them contribute to sensible policies. This sensible policy means reducing the production of natural gas, ensuring that the recovery of damage is done properly, tackling the programme of reinforcement in a very conscientious way, taking all kinds of other measures around it, having an increase in value, a depreciation scheme and now also a pilot for a buy-back scheme. All this, that package is partly borne by the findings of the University of Groningen that something really needs to be done in that area. That's what's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u66	What is the Minister doing with it in concrete terms? That's what I'd like to know. What if the $10 million in the pilot isn't enough? So, are we just gonna go ahead and select a little bit more? Should the National Coordinator set up some selection criteria? Or is the Minister willing to contact the NAM to get the amount increased, if necessary? I don't think so, given the numbers, but who knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u67	I just said, twice, what I'm gonna do with that report. 10 million is available for this pilot. That's how we carry out the pilot. We are looking at the results and we will draw conclusions from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u68	The Minister is going to study the reports. That's what I heard him say, but in the meantime, nothing changes the reality of people in Groningen. There's a depreciation scheme. We are talking about 2% to 3% of prices. However, there is a much greater depreciation for a significant part of the housing. The report of the University of Groningen also makes that clear. Is the Minister prepared to engage with the researchers and refine the existing regulations on the basis of the conclusions of the University of Groningen? I'd really like to hear a yes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u69	The answer is no. It's not like I'm going to study that report. The reports that are brought to my attention are somehow involved in the design of our policies. I just turned that in. I have also indicated that we have the hard figures set by the Central Bureau of Statistics. Mrs Dik says that depreciation is much more than 2% to 3%, but this is not reflected in the figures provided by the Central Statistical Office. But apart from those figures, I think there is a real problem in the area, in some cases a little more and in others a little less. Especially in cases where the problem is greater, extra attention is needed and is given to it. In addition to this pilot buy-back scheme, there is also a possibility to buy-back special cases. That is what the Special Cases Committee is for. So we have taken a whole package of measures to ensure that all the relevant information that comes to us enables us to shape the policy properly. That's what we're doing right now. If there are opportunities and need to improve policy, I am always prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u70	The Minister involves the reports in his policy. In my view, that requires at least that he study the reports and I think he should do something with them. So again the question: is the Minister prepared to talk to the researchers of the University of Groningen, who have indicated that the existing scheme is not working? In doing so, we simply miss a part of the housing market where there is a significant depreciation, more than that 2% to 3%. I ask the Minister again because I simply cannot understand that he says: I have looked at all the reports and based on what I have looked at and what I have taken into account in my policy, I think this is a good arrangement. The report of the State University indicates something quite different. I am happy to give this to the Minister and otherwise I will have to come forward with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u71	A motion doesn't scare me anymore. I'm too old for that now. However, I am convinced that there is a real housing market problem in Groningen. That is why I have taken a wide range of measures. I've just listed it. These are all measures that have a positive impact on the housing market. The CBS also notes that the housing market in the area is developing in the same way as in similar areas. I am convinced that if the National Coordinator considers it necessary for his work to have additional consultations with the researchers, he has already done so or will do so. For my part, I can say that I use all the information that comes to me from the CBS, from the University of Groningen, from our own experiences, from my own employees, from the Centre for Safe Living, from the National Coordinator, from the municipalities and from the province of Groningen to ensure that my policy is as good as possible and that the housing market in the area is ultimately the same as the housing market in similar areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u72	I do not think that the Minister's comment on the right to table motions is really appropriate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u73	The Minister would like a sensible policy. I can tell you that's what we're here for. I am also glad that I heard the Minister put the door on a small crack in relation to the report of the University of Groningen. The Minister said: I can imagine that the National Coordinator Groningen, if he finds that useful, will consult these researchers. My question to the Minister is then: is the National Coordinator Groningen also free to fine-tune the current regime if he concludes, on the basis of his talks with the researchers in Groningen, that the large difference between their report and that of the CBS gives rise to some tightening of the regime on points?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u74	No, I think that the pilot, as it is now set up, should be carried out. Once the pilot has been carried out, we will look at what findings we have to draw and what conclusions we have to draw from them. There are other things where information comes in all the time. We'll add it to that. I have also mentioned the report of the University of Groningen. Maybe we're gonna do other things or we're gonna have to fine tune things. I'm gonna check it out after that. I'm not going to change the pilot again in advance. This pilot is very good and has a clear design. An amount has been made available for this purpose. We need to run that pilot now. People have been able to sign in for a month. Mr President, you responded to my ruling on a motion. The Chamber sometimes suggests that I would only be willing to take a subject seriously and to meet the Chamber if there is the threat of a motion for a resolution. Mrs. Dik-Faber suggested the same thing. But it's not. Regardless of whether there will be a motion, I always do my best to do it as well as possible and to do justice to what the Chamber brings in. Perhaps you would consider my comments as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u75	Thank you for the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u76	Now it's getting a little tricky. If the Minister first says four times in answer to questions from the Chamber that he is taking it with him, that he is going to look at it and that the National Coordinator Groningen can still speak with the researchers, but then immediately concludes that nothing is going to change, then we are engaged in pastime. That can't be the intention. There is a big difference between the results of the report of the University of Groningen and that of the CBS. This may be due to the fact that the CBS is looking at the median, the mean. There may be a very large difference between the drop in the price of one house and the other. This is what the report of the University of Groningen goes into more. That could be a fine-tuning. In doing so, you could achieve higher compensation at one and lower compensation at the other. If the National Coordinator Groningen comes to the conclusion in his conversation with the researchers that this is a valuable fine-tuning of the pilot, why would the Minister oppose it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u77	I do not know what Mrs Van Veldhoven has been listening to, but I did not say that we are not going to change anything. I told you we're already doing a lot and the pilot comes with it. We're looking at the results of that pilot. Other information will also be available around it. On the basis of all that, we will see if it is necessary to do things differently or more. That's what I said. I didn't deny there could be a difference between one place and another. Speaking of minus 1.4% since 2012, that's an average. That's what I said. I know that in the case of one house it can be more than the other. If you sell your property in that area and you get a 20% lower price for it than you would have gotten in another area, that 20% will be reimbursed. One of the schemes has been set up. It shall be taken into account in individual cases. I take the whole issue as seriously in the future as I do now. I am convinced that the development of the housing market, along with a number of other indicators, is an important indicator of the success of our policies. Where I am already committed to ensuring that policy is successful for all kinds of reasons, I will also be committed to this because I think it is important. On 5 April we sent a response to the University of Groningen. We discussed the comparison with the methodology of the Central Bureau of Statistics. I also think it is a good thing that those who deal with the same subject at the CBS and the University of Groningen are in contact with each other. I'm guessing that's also the case. We'll run that pilot and then see what's needed or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u78	Mr. Chairman. I have a brief closing question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u79	Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u80	Will the Minister give the National Coordinator Groningen some space on this point? He doesn't have to tell me what space that is, but let's give the National Coordinator some space if there are any things that he would like to change out of that conversation. I will not threaten a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u81	On the subject of the motion, Mr President, I would like to say nothing. The National Coordinator has plenty of space. I'm sure he doesn't feel limited in his space because of me. I think that he agrees with me now; it seems to me very sensible that we all think that we are doing the pilot in addition to all the instruments we already have. We'll see what comes out of it. On this basis, and on the basis of other information, we will then examine, among other things, the University of Groningen, what we need to do to ensure that the housing market in that area will eventually function properly, similar to the functioning of the housing market in the rest of the country. I think I have now had the broad outline of the various subjects. I'm gonna go into the details a little bit more. Mrs Mulder asked me if I am ashamed of what is happening in Groningen. She said everything had to be fought and dragged away in front of the gates of hell. I said in my introduction that this is not the case at all. There has been a great deal of pressure during this cabinet period, with very large changes, which have always been well-founded on the basis of previous investigations. Organisations and people have been deployed to do what is needed there. I'm doing everything I think should be done. If things don't go so well, I'll try to do them better. So I'm not ashamed of anything. I am really doing my best to ensure that the serious problem in Groningen gets an adequate response. I'm sure we've come a long way. I am proud of what the people who have worked for this have achieved in the meantime, my staff, the people in Groningen of the National Coordinator, the people of the municipalities, the people of the province, the people of the organisations in Groningen. I think we should all go through with that to make sure that we reach the final goal in the end. I have already dealt with the decline in value, the mining damage and the increase in value. I told Mrs Mulder that I would come to the Chamber before 1 July with regard to the national point of contact. I intend to do so before 29 June, because there is a debate with the Chamber on 29 June. Perhaps Mrs Mulder would like to take this issue into account. So before that moment, I'll have that information in the Chamber. As far as the more structural support of the Groningers is concerned, I think there is every reason to support Groningers by ensuring that with the Centre for Safe Living you make an organisation that does a good job for the Groningers and that is committed to doing so, by ensuring that there is an independent counselor to whom you can go if you experience things as unreasonable, by ensuring that there are arbitrators who can make a decision on the ground, by ensuring that there is a National Coordinator with more than 100 people who will be able to do what they need to do and also by using my own staff and myself in the area, by ensuring that there is a committee for special situations, by ensuring that the municipalities and the province are facilitated to do what they need to do. So I think the people in Groningen are being structurally supported. If there are any shortcomings, we will look at how some extras should be done there and in what form. I am thinking, for example, of the monuments. There is, of course, a complex problem, which I will deal with later, but we will also look at how we can provide people with greater support in relation to monuments. Mrs Mulder also mentioned the decline in value. I've already talked about that. She also dealt with the soil movement and the mining damage; so have I. I think I have dealt with Mrs Mulder's points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u82	However, Mrs Mulder has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u83	Yes, about standards for vital infrastructure and industry. The Minister said something about the chemical cluster in general, but there would be another opinion from the working group. When does the Minister expect its specific results?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u84	I am not prepared to do so, Mr President. I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u85	I had another question; several colleagues had it. We have already dealt with it briefly at oral Question Time. It concerns the research done by the NOS journalist to the extraction in 2013. I would like to hear from the Minister once again whether or not the mining giants Shell and Exxon had any influence on the decisions taken by the Minister in 2013, because there was such an enormous amount of mining at the time and those agreements were there from 2005.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u86	I do not understand why Mrs Mulder keeps asking this, because the suggestion is that the answers I gave last time would not be correct and that there is reason to doubt that. If attempts were made to influence me, I would just report it here. If no attempts are made to influence me, so am I. About the year 2013 I have played an open card from the beginning, of course; I always do. The years before that we had a mining of 47, 48 billion m. In 2013, nearly 54 billion of mardgas were won. When I started in the Ministry, I saw that there was a problem where far-reaching measures were needed, for which I did not find sufficient information available. So I said that we are going to use a year now to make sure that this information is there. That's what I reported to the Chamber. The Chamber has agreed to that. I have done all these studies and since then I have been working very fast to take one measure after another and to ensure that they are carried out. In 2013 I did not intervene in the extraction of gas. So that gas extraction was almost 6 billion mhigher. I have also indicated to the Chamber several times, in writing and orally, exactly the causes that affected it. The main cause was that there was a cold winter, but it was also the last part of the time that was thought: you can win to a certain level. But in the meantime, we have established that you can win up to the level that is justified, primarily with regard to the safety of the people in Groningen. It comes first. Secondly, the importance of security of supply. Within these margins, we are now trying to keep extraction as low as possible. That is a different policy, and that is based on the investigations I carried out in 2013. When I decided to focus on the investigations in 2013 and only then to decide on major measures, I did not take into account any pressure from anyone. It was my own conclusions on the basis of the documents I myself studied. I did. There was no influence on the part of NAM, Shell or Exxon at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u88	Mind if I respond briefly, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u89	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a crucial point, because we have the report of the Security Research Council on everything before 2012. If colleagues in the House of Representatives then say that there is a need for a parliamentary inquiry, I assume it will be about the period after that. Then this is the most crucial point where it could be wrong. That is why I believe that the Minister is giving us complete clarity about what has happened or has not happened. Possibly such a suggestion as by GroenLinks, to ask the Research Council for Security to look at this again, can help to get the cold out of the sky. I will discuss this with my group and see where we can come up with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u91	I'll wait and see. Nor do I have any idea of parliamentary surveys. They belong to the room's toolbox. It is the Court's right to conduct investigations and also to decide in what form it conducts investigations and what period it covers. Mrs Mulder already says: if we are going to do so, we are going to do so over the period of this cabinet, in which Kamp is responsible. I would like to leave it to the Chamber to decide, if it is decided in that direction, whether that is the content. I have no idea what that means. I'll be right back at the Security Research Council. I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's points. I've gone over the depreciation, the NAM and the National Coordinator. I think it's good to say something more about the monument damage. I will therefore take the answer to what Mr Bosman has said about this. I'm worried about the monuments. In Groningen people are also concerned about the monuments. I think we all have reason to. Strengthening a modern school is still to be done. The strengthening of a regular home is still possible. However, if you want to strengthen a monument in which people live because it is a house, a church or a special, old town hall, you run the risk of compromising the monumental value. Moreover, because it is a monument, you have not only to take into account reinforcement rules but also rules for monuments. That's pretty complicated. So there's every reason to be concerned about that. That is why the National Coordinator is currently working on a guide for the restoration and strengthening of monuments. He does so in the form of a balance-of-payments framework, reflecting the different interests to be defended and how to do justice to them. To support this, there will be a separate heritage window. You can report all matters relating to monuments or, in a broad sense, heritage to that window. There will also be a separate team of experts who can assist owners of monuments in case of damage or reinforcement. It is a serious problem, as the whole problem in Groningen is serious. But this is a problem of a special nature. This means that it will receive the particular attention I have just outlined. Furthermore, Minister Bussemaker has agreed with the Cultural Heritage Agency that requests from the earthquake area will be dealt with as a matter of priority. That's helping again. With that in mind, therefore: priority, balancing framework, heritage window and heritage team, I am committed to ensuring that the worrying problems relating to monuments are adequately dealt with now. Mrs Dik-Faber has another question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u92	I welcome the warm words of the Minister and the particular attention given to the heritage, because this is a real identity for the area. The Brim scheme for the maintenance of monuments is not really enough, because its starting point is sober and efficient. There should be a plus in the earthquake zone. Will the Minister also look at that plus and who's going to pay for it? From my point of view, and also from the Minister's point of view, I think that should be the NAM, because it causes the earthquakes that make that plus necessary. I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u93	The relationship between the NAM and the Brim regime I can't make right away. If it is to be strengthened, it must be carried by the NAM. If the damage is to be repaired, it must also be borne by the NAM. The exact nature of these arrangements must be determined by the person responsible, in this case the Minister for Education and Science. It pays attention to the monuments in that area. I will pass on this signal from Mrs Dik-Faber to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u94	I'm happy with the latter. The Minister was also personally informed by me in the last debate on culture, but it is always good if there is also consultation between ministries. Let me return to the Minister's remark that he does not see the relationship between the Brim and the NAM. To put it in a little more words: there is a Brim scheme, which relies on the maintenance of monuments by owners in a sober and efficient way. In the earthquake zone it is sober and not effective, because a building needs to be made equally earthquake-proof. That's what we have to do in Groningen because it's a natural gas extraction area. Nevertheless, the NAM is responsible for the earthquake damage that is caused, which means that monuments cannot be sober and efficiently maintained, but must have a plus on them. In my view, it would be very logical to appeal to the NAM for these additional costs. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u95	I have already indicated what is being done with regard to heritage and monuments. Four different movements are made. The National Coordinator has been asked to make an inventory of schools, care institutions and monuments. The National Coordinator is going to do so and that will lead to a result. He will look at what the problem is, what it is already being done, whether it is enough, what problems there are and how to deal with them. He will involve all existing arrangements. That's what I can say about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u96	These monuments are not only common heritage, but also often the home of a family. For all kinds of families, we have said that it would be a good idea to deal with damage at a distance from the NAM, namely at the Centre for Safe Living. For families living in a monument, this is difficult, because the Centre for Safe Living says it does not have the expertise for it. It will then have to negotiate directly with the NAM and then we will face the same problems. In my contribution, I asked the Minister to see if we could equip the Safe Living Centre with expertise so that it could handle those damages in a good way, more remotely from the NAM, as it does for all the other families. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u97	I've already indicated there's going to be a special heritage team. This will be set up by the National Coordinator, following the Heritage Window. I think this equipment also offers what Mrs Van Veldhoven is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u98	Fine, I missed that for a while, but I'm glad it's settled this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u99	On the subject of monuments, because in the meantime we are faced with conflicting legislation: on the one hand there is the Monumentenwet and on the other hand there is the concern for security and sustainability and strengthening and strengthening. How do we prevent one from starting to strengthen, when the monument can be lost? Is that settled or is that soon being arranged by the National Coordinator Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u100	I said I was worried about the whole problem. It is absolutely not easy to reconcile these things. The strengthening can be viewed technically, but if you have strengthened a monument and the fun is off, then of course that is not good. Monuments are very valuable for the culture in the area and for its experience value for people. I think the monuments are one of the most beautiful things in this beautiful part of the country. I love this part of the country. The monuments are very important there. So I think this is a serious problem and I am concerned about it. Mr Bosman points out the different interests, and he is right to do so. It is therefore a good thing that we create a framework for this, that we create a point of contact, that we have a separate team for this and that we identify the whole issue in that area. I am not yet satisfied with the way we are dealing with it at the moment. We are working on it, but it must lead to better results than it is at present. Mrs. Dik talked about the fall in value. That's what I brought up. I talked about the pilots. I went on to discuss the increase in value, the reinforcement, the schools, the monuments and the year 2013. In the end, Mrs Dik-Faber's question was whether I would be prepared to put a mark on the horizon as regards the direction of renewable energy. She points out that it's fossil energy and says it's something that you started with in the past and which now leads to big problems. Working strongly on the transition to renewable energy can also be a solution. I can assure Mrs Dik-Faber that every day I take everything out of the box to live up to our ambition in the field of renewable energy. We have very great ambitions. By 2020, 14% of our energy must be sustainable and 16% by 2023. She herself follows what is happening, off the coast, in Drenthe, in Groningen and in all kinds of places in the country. I'm on top of it all the time. I have the dot on the horizon. That is what the coalition agreement says, what is in the energy agreement and what has been agreed in Europe: a CO reduction of 80% to 95% in the year 2050 compared to 1990. That's my dot on the horizon I'm working on. Mr Wassenberg spoke of a parliamentary survey. I won't go into that. He also asked if, pending the Mining Act, I would like to establish a moratorium on gas exploration. During a previous consultation here, a VAO, I said that the search permits are something other than the Mining Act and that the environmental permit and the nature protection permit are also other things. We have separate laws for that. I've gone through the legal procedures. I shouldn't be doing anything else in my position. Mr Wassenberg also spoke about VAT deductions. In complex cases, the NAM directs the restoration of a home. It may also be that people do it themselves. During the year 2015, it was chosen to place invoices in the name of the NAM in cases where the NAM could have done it itself, would have done it, but did not do it and it is done on behalf of the private person. There is no question that the NAM has put pressure on contractors or on people who have suffered damage, or has incited them to forgery in writing. There has been a certain way of doing things. It is now clear that this should not be the case. If the recovery takes place on behalf of the NAM and follows an invoice, then the NAM can handle the VAT itself. If the contract is given by another person, VAT is the responsibility of the other person. That case has been cleared up by now. We have found that the NAM has not deducted any VAT and that there is therefore no specific tax problem at the moment. With this action of the NAM in practice and with the intention to act as we believe it is in accordance with the rules, we think that this problem has been solved. Mr Bosman once again stressed the importance of dealing with the complex cases. I went into that immediately at the beginning of my speech. I told Mr Bosman what happened to all the complex cases until 1 January: they were dealt with. The cases from then on, the National Coordinator has drawn towards him. I think we should do it this way, because we can do justice to this often complex problem, which comes from several sides. Besides, we can't wait for each other. That requires directing. For that direction, we have appointed the National Coordinator. Mr Bosman placed an interruption on the monuments. This subject has now been dealt with. I would like to say the following about the increase in value. This arrangement stopped at some point, because the money had been spent for it or would have been spent soon. It has therefore been indicated that that valuation scheme would cease at a certain date. The people who already had ongoing cases would get another month to report them. These would then be dealt with according to the date of the injury notification. The Court then noted that the increase budget had been spent in one and a half to two years, while it was intended for five years. The Minister could have considered that this increase in value had been used and that it should therefore only be completed, but the Court wanted this increase in value to continue. I couldn't do that because I didn't have the money. It was only at the spring note that we could make money available for this. That's what happened, which means that Bosman c.s. motion. will now be carried out. I haven't been able to do that before, but now it's happening. Now it is also clear what amount is available for this. The National Coordinator translates this into an adapted scheme for the continuation of the value increase scheme. All this is happening now. I hope that I have done justice to Mr Bosman's contribution. As part of the assistance provided to the people in the area, Mr Smaling spoke about legal aid insurance. I've said a lot about that guidance. Separate residents have been appointed to the National Coordinator Groningen. There are people who act as case managers for the complex cases. There are people working on the reinforcements. More generally, it can be said that the National Coordinator has built up capacity for the guidance of residents who need guidance. I would like to point out that, in addition to this, there is also the Committee on Special Situations. In addition, the National Coordinator finances a support point for the residents of the area. This is the support point Stut & Support, set up by civil society organisations that form the Gas Council, together with the Groninger Bottom Movement. So the residents are also helped from that support point. Furthermore, the independent counsel is available for cases where there is something wrong according to the opinion of the residents. I believe that the Committee on Special Situations plays a good role in this whole. The best thing we can do, I believe, is to remove the cause of the problems as soon as possible. Hence the importance of reducing gas extraction, ensuring that damage is properly dealt with and tackling it properly, as well as all the measures around it. A number of them have now been reviewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u101	I'm glad to hear what's going on. That's fine. At the same time, both the provincial Ombudsman and the study of the University of Groningen indicate that the number of psychological and legal complaints increases rather than decreases. My own experience in the area is also that I often stand with my arms around the shoulder of crying people that I see for the first time in my life. Is what the Minister is doing now through the National Coordinator sufficient? I can't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u102	It is not enough until we have solved the problem there. That is not yet the case. This means that we have to do on a very broad front what is necessary to do justice to the people who I have already said did not cause it and did not ask for it. We are doing this in all kinds of ways, and I am doing my utmost to make a substantial contribution in all these different ways. Signals I get from the independent counsel I take very seriously. The same goes for the signals I get from the University of Groningen. People are constantly confronted with problems that they may not always be able to properly assess because they are communicated in different ways. They are regularly confronted with earthquakes and procedures that follow them. These are things they can't control themselves. I understand very well that this leads to uncertainty and anger. I realize very well that this also has physical and psychological effects. That is why we are working so hard on it. Once again, I think it is sufficient if we have achieved the result that the people of Groningen are no longer faced with a worse situation than in the rest of the country, caused by natural gas extraction, I say to Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u103	Once again, my compliments for all that is being done, but there is just a lot of silent grief. People are getting inside themselves and are no longer actively looking for help. This partly explains why both the Ombudsman and the university come forward with these results. I can table a motion, but I can also ask the Minister if he and the National Coordinator can see if we can cover this whole area sufficiently. Or is there still a need for an extra effort? In any case, we must take stock of this type of grief that arises and leads to inactivity and perhaps health damage. It is of course known what this kind of thing can bring about. Perhaps we can step up our efforts on that. But I'll leave that to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u104	Like Mr Smaling, I am most concerned about the people who are less easy to express themselves and who are sometimes less easily able to oversee the whole and not be able to put it into perspective where that can be done. They're people who aren't mature, can't talk away from themselves and can't take care of themselves so easily. Especially for those people, there needs to be extra attention. I will look very closely, together with the National Coordinator, at whether the whole of what we have now is sufficient, especially for this group. If that is not the case, we will see what additional needs to be done. I do believe, however, that we have made a very significant contribution by halving natural gas extraction and reducing seismicity. Of course, it makes a real difference: last year we had eight tremors above 2 on the Richter scale throughout the year. In the previous year there were 15 and so far we only had one this year. If we handle the damage properly, that also makes a difference. If people in the area can also talk about it in a more positive way, it will certainly go on to the target group described by Mr Smaling. I don't want to wait for that. I would also like to see whether what we have at present is sufficient specifically for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u105	Very briefly, Mr Smaling, because we are actually doing interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u106	I advise the Minister not to use that word "half" as often as he does now, because it should never have been 54 billion cube. I'd like to pass that on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u107	It was 47 to 48 cubic metres in the years before. We shall see what we come up with in the future. Mr Smaling spoke about the C-damages. That's what I've been working on. He also asked about the overdue maintenance and the fund to come for it. At some point, a house must be strengthened and the damage compensated. It is not intended to do less for those who have maintained the house well than for those who have not maintained the house well and that this is on behalf of society, but to meet those who have a house with overdue maintenance, we want to set up a fund so that it can be financed. If you sell that house, there could be a settlement. We're working out that arrangement now. Agreement has been reached on the money to be made available for this purpose. This agreement will enable us to work out the matter in detail, and that means that we can also do what is necessary with regard to late maintenance. With regard to Mrs Van Tongeren's questions and comments, I have dealt with the physical and psychological complaints. She asked me to ask the Security Research Council for updates on his investigation. The Research Council for Security is about his own investigations. It also seems to me to be something the Research Council should not have to do, because its recommendations were clear. I have said that I will accept these recommendations. So it is my responsibility and I have to answer to the Chamber again. I think it would be a good idea to update what we have done in response to the advice of the Security Research Council. I'll take care of that update myself. Mrs Van Tongeren also spoke about legal aid. I have already said that the people in the area can take out legal aid insurance. I have also spoken about the arbitrator who is going to work there, and I think that I have responded sufficiently to what Mrs Van Tongeren has said on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u108	If you now want to take out legal aid insurance in Groningen, it appears that most companies exclude earthquake damage, because it is a foreseeable risk. That means you can take out legal aid insurance, but not one that helps you with earthquake damage. A lot of legal aid insurers say you could already know when you went to live there and count back to older earthquakes. The people who already have such insurance are also excluded from it. There may be a few legal aid insurers who do and where you can now take out a complete legal aid insurance. Questions have been put by Mr Vos, among others, to Minister Van der Steur, in which that is what he says. My request to the Minister is to ensure that people can also go to court if they want to. If you have an equity, you can, but for other groups it seems fairly impossible to raise the money for that. Then the low-income people don't have as much to do with a specialised part of the court if you can't go there financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u109	I would like to prevent people from getting to court by making sure that the first valuation already allows the case to be dealt with. If that is not the case, there will be a second valuation, but then the arbitrator will come. These are former judges who make a ruling on the spot and immediately which is binding on the NAM. I am convinced that we have put in place an adequate set-up, which means that we do not need to go to court. If people want to go to court, I can imagine that legal aid insurance is important. On the basis of what Mrs Van Tongeren has said, particularly as far as that is different from what I have said, I think it would be appropriate to write down the situation regarding legal aid insurance and to inform the Chamber of Appeal, so that we can discuss it separately. Mrs Van Tongeren said that the people in Groningen have a problem because they often do not know where to go, to the province, to the city council, to the court, to the arbitrator, to the Special Cases Committee, to the independent counsellor. We have tried to find good solutions to the various problems that exist. Sometimes it's a little too much. Sometimes we have to add something to it. This is how the Chamber ruled that the arbitrator should be there. I agreed, so there is now. Sometimes something can be done, for example if the National Coordinator would also supervise the Centre Safe Living. The most important thing we can do is to ensure that the National Coordinator acts as a reception point. The coordinator is in charge of a public service consisting of employees of the municipalities, of the province and of various ministries, and of people we have attracted from outside, all dedicated officials, who work there for the area. An overview is available on the National Coordinator's website, which will guide citizens. If a citizen can't get enough information from that, he can call the National Coordinator, with the National Coordinator's office. Then he can be redirected to the proper facility. I think we should send a message to each other in the area: the National Coordinator's website and telephone, that's where you can go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u110	It seems very good to me that there is one central place where people can find information and that everything is quite easy to find there. In the opinion of the people who regularly e-mail me, that is still not the case. While we are still working on that website, I still have a question following a previous motion on the disclosure of information. Wouldn't it be easy to show on that website how many houses have been evacuated, evacuated and demolished? The answer given by the Minister was that this information can be found in the Land Registry and in the municipalities, but it would, in my view, remove unrest if those numbers were indeed quite low and simply easy to find. Otherwise there will be stories wandering around, including about the depreciation of those houses. This value would have been influenced, among other things, by the number of houses purchased by the NAM for or too low, or a reasonable price. Any false Indian story that we can get out of it, we need to get it out, because that's gonna get us out of it. That's what the Minister wants, and that's what the Chamber wants. Then all we have to worry about is the things that stand out above the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u111	I will pass on Mrs Van Tongeren's suggestion to the National Coordinator. I do not think that all the information about everything that the various authorities are responsible for can be found on the National Coordinator's website, but Mrs Van Tongeren does not ask that either. If you are confused as a citizen and want to know where to go for this or for that, then you should be able to go to the National Coordinator's website and be referred from there to the appropriate authority. If it's not clear then, you just need to be able to talk to a human. You need to be able to ask questions and get answers. That is what the National Coordinator is responsible for, and he sees that as his task. I will pass on Mrs Van Tongeren's suggestion to the National Coordinator. I believe that Mrs Van Tongeren's questions concerning the arbitrator have been sufficiently addressed. She also talked about confidentiality. I have also taken up this point. From now on, this will only be included in complex damage agreements if the people themselves appreciate it. In old cases, people can talk about that if they want to. The NAM doesn't talk about it, because that's the way it's supposed to be. However, people are free to do so. I think I have had Mrs Van Tongeren's points with this. I'm going to see Mrs. Van Veldhoven. I've gone into the housing market extensively and what's going on around the housing market. She asked very briefly whether we should not rely on the rebuilt value of the purchase scheme, rather than the market value. I don't think we should. The reconstruction is not the issue when you talk about an existing property. If you sell an existing property, the asking price is not the rebuilt value, but the price you think the property is worth on the market. If there is a problem, there must be provision for responding to it. There are also those facilities. I think we're doing it the right way. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked when the entire projects of the schools were completed. I have indicated that this project is to be completed by 2020. Mrs Van Veldhoven also wants to stay informed about what is happening at the National Coordinator. What amounts are being spent there and what activities are being carried out? I get a quarterly report from the National Coordinator and I will send it to the Chamber every quarter so that she can follow it herself. I have already responded to many of the points raised by Mrs Klever. She found it wrong that case managers who previously worked for the NAM now work for the National Coordinator. I don't think the NAM, the Center for Safe Living or the National Coordinator are dirty words. They are all organisations of people who are aware of their own responsibility and who are doing their best to act accordingly. If you are employed or have worked for one of those organizations, you want to do your job as best you can. If you have worked for the NAM on the basis of your expertise in dealing with damage, this will not prevent me from working for the Centre for Safe Living or for the National Coordinator. I would like the people who work in that area to do so professionally and professionally for any organisation or if they work for themselves, to do what the people in the area are entitled to. The people who hire the National Coordinator are able to do so, otherwise he would not have accepted them. I've gone over the complex damage in detail. Mrs Klever then spoke about the National Coordinator's budget. I have just said that I will send a report to the Chamber on this every three months. She also talked about construction companies that are ready to get to work, but they are getting bogged down in bureaucracy. I've said all the necessary things about the damage. It may be that any damage is repaired or commissioned by the Centre for Safe Living or by order of the damage detector. The recovery is then done by an acceptance company after which the account is paid. If people have reason to ask for a sum of money and to give their own substance to the recovery in the way they think best, I find that an interesting fact. We're gonna investigate that. This will result in less work being done by contractors than would otherwise be the case. We will have to accept that fact. Mr Vos spoke in detail about the recovery of damage. I have gone into this in detail. He said that when it's sold, the damage will have to be compensated. I have indicated the arrangements for this and I think they are good. I have also indicated what additional arrangements will be available for this. I agree with Mr Vos that the mining damage must be consistently translated into all the activities taking place in the area. This is what the organisations and arrangements set up should be aimed at. He spoke of several complaints that have come into the Independent Councilman's office. I have said that I take what comes into the Independent Councilman very seriously. I talked to him about that. He has mentioned all kinds of aspects that play a role in this. We've put his views in addition to my opinions. I take what is happening there, like the National Coordinator, very seriously and see this as an incentive to ensure that the Centre for Safe Living is made customer-friendly, that the National Coordinator can be contacted if necessary and that the path to the Independent Councilman is maintained. I think it is most important that we address the cause of the problems, as I have just described a number of times. Mr Vos addressed the financial aspects of various issues. I've already responded to that. I've indicated what we're going to do with monitoring the housing market. I also discussed the relationship between the Central Bureau of Statistics and the research of the University of Groningen, the pilot and the other measures. I think I have dealt with Mr Vos's points. I would therefore like to conclude my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u112	Finally, Mr Vos has a question for you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u113	My group is not entirely convinced by the Minister's speech. If you get 51% more complaints, as noted by the Groningen gas ombudsman Leendert Klaassen, there is something really going on locally. That means the situation isn't right. The directors of the Labour Party, whom I regularly speak, work day and night to address people's concerns and complaints. The Labour Party has now opened its own e-mail address and its own site.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u114	Would you like to put a question to the Minister, Mr Vos?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u115	Mr. Chairman. This is the first time since you've been sitting here watching me on the interrupting microphone, so now I just want to calm my point. It's the only point I'm going to make, namely that people in Groningen can go to gas extractiondamage@pvda.nl.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u116	I would ask you to put a question to the Minister. An interruption is meant to put a question to the Minister. If you wish to make a speech, you are warmly invited to do so in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u117	Clear, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to look very carefully at the way in which the NAM operates and whether he would like to ensure that we do not have another debate here about people who are in trouble as a result of this damage or because their homes have fallen in value but cannot be bought up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u118	I am very willing to monitor closely all developments in the area and all actors in the area. I believe, in fact, that there is still a serious problem that needs to be resolved urgently, urgently and urgently, and that everyone should contribute to it. It is my responsibility to follow that, to see where things are lacking and then to take action on them. I am therefore happy to make that commitment to Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u119	I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer in an extensive first term. That means we have to keep the second term a little shorter. Speaking time shall be two minutes per speaker. So if you want to file a lot of motions, they can't be very long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u120	Mr. Chairman. I'll start my motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make the pilot purchasing instrument a success by carefully monitoring its implementation, supporting, where necessary, and encouraging NAM to broaden and further finance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the University of Groningen has calculated that more than 180,000 homes in the quake area in Groningen have become worth almost EUR 1 billion less;]] [[Whereas the current research methods do not properly reflect the damage to the Groningen housing market, for example because the methods are based on the prices of houses actually sold;]] [[Whereas, according to the CBS, there is a diversity of methods of independent research that is important for policy practice;]] [[calls on the Government to use the research method used by the University of Groningen in determining the decrease in value and monitoring the housing market in the earthquake area in addition to the CBS research method,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-259]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-260]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u121	In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for his answers. He has made a number of commitments and we are pleased that we will hear more about the one window for dealing with the Mining Act, that this letter is coming to us. We are also content about the openness of contracts, but our motion goes a little further. So I'll keep this one filed. The Minister informed us what the estimates of the NAM are for the strengthening of inspections. We are curious whether these estimates are one-on-one with the estimates of the National Coordinator Groningen. Finally, the structural funds for Groningen. The Spring Note contains an amount of 244 million euros, of which 98 million euros are needed in 2016 at least. It's an amount for 2024, so I'm asking this minister if that's enough for 2024. Or should we take a more structural look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u122	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions. Due to time, I'll file my motions immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chairman of the Supervisory Centre Committee concludes that the Centre should be at a greater distance from the NAM;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to place the Safe Living Centre at a greater distance from the NAM, so that damage assessment and damage settlement take place in an independent manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the cooperation agreement between the National Coordinator Groningen, the NAM and the Ministry of Economic Affairs shows that the NAM must approve the annual plan of the National Coordinator Groningen;]] [[considers that it is desirable for the National Coordinator Groningen to be more independent of the NAM in plans for reinforcement;]] [[calls on the Government, the National Coordinator Groningen to give the NAM a more independent position, inter alia by adjusting the cooperation agreement, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas truth finding is essential in order to restore confidence for the Groningen people;]] [[Whereas it is necessary for the House of Representatives to have an in-depth understanding of how the gas building has functioned since 1963, how it has dealt with the risks and safety of citizens, how political decision-making has taken place and what the influence and interests of private companies are;]] [[Whereas this understanding is necessary, inter alia, to take the appropriate measures for the future and to draw lessons from it for the future;]] [[Considers that a parliamentary survey should not result in delays in repairing or delaying the risk of earthquakes and mining damage;]] [[points out that a parliamentary survey on gas extraction in Groningen should be carried out;]] [[calls on the Bureau to make proposals on the design and form of the research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Smaling and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-261]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Smaling, Mr Van Veldhoven and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-262]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-263]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Wassenberg has been excused, and that is why I am now giving the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u124	Mr. Chairman. A year and a half ago I received the steam course'spokesman gas extraction' and I remember that the situation in the Chamber was sometimes different at that time. It was a little grimmer and a little firmer. If you now see how we are trying to work together to make it better for the people of Groningen, you can see that we have come a long way in that year and a half. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers, because it also shows a positive approach and the ambition to make it better for Groningen. For example, transparency in the settlement of damages without a confidentiality clause as an initiative from the NAM itself is considered positive. The examination of the role of the National Coordinator Groningen at the Safe Living Centre is also very positive. The commitment to legal aid in the letter on this subject has the necessary concerns, and the clarification of that is also very positive. The money for schools and the future-proofing of schools is a very important plan, because it is about the future of the children and the safety of the children of Groningen. I'm very pleased with the appreciation scheme. I believe that everyone in this Chamber is happy about this, because this was a broad-based initiative. I am also very pleased with the economic development and innovation that can take place in Groningen. I call the Economic Board Groningen, the sustainability, the zero-on-the-meter houses and all the other things that make Groningen a province with opportunities. I would also like to thank the Minister for the great attention he has paid to monuments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u125	Mr. Chairman. The SP Group has signed a number of motions. I would like to hear a reply from the Minister to the motion tabled by Mr Bashir during the debate with Secretary of State Wiebes on the VAT issue. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the screaming about what is now and is not earthquake-related damage risks becoming a prayer without end;]] [[considers that there are three heterogeneous layers, namely:]] [[the subsurface with its different geological deposits varying in thickness;]] [[the upper meters with large differences in percentages of sand, clay and peat, in which is well-founded, dikes are laid and pipes lie;]] [[houses and other buildings above ground level and roads, canals and locks;]] [[Considers that causality is further complicated by feedback mechanisms, i.e. that the impact of an earthquake resulting from gas extraction is partly determined by soil decline and groundwater reduction in the past, the choice of building on terpen or on strongly swelling clays, and the choice of the type of foundation;]] [[calls on the Government to break this deadlock by having an independent international team of geologists, physical geographers, soil scientists, hydrologists and geostatisticians make an assessment of this issue if the current "validation" does not provide any clarity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-264]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u126	I've done my best on this motion, Mr. Chairman. That's what I heard, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u127	We wrote along nicely, Mr. Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u128	Mr. Chairman. The Minister just said that he is willing to update the recommendations of the OVV's investigation in the period up to 2012. I have a motion calling for this to be updated so far. That has to prove whether the Groningers are safe now. Is the importance of Groningen's safety paramount? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is now four years after the great earthquake in Huizinge;]] [[Considering that in 2013 the Security Research Council published an authoritative report with recommendations to improve decision-making on gas extraction in Groningen and restore confidence between citizens and government;]] [[calls on the Government, the Security Research Council, to consider updating the report on Earthquake risks in Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Wassenberg, Van Veldhoven and Klever.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-265]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u129	I also have a second motion. My goal is actually to give the National Coordinator Groningen some financial scope for people who are in special circumstances. Let me give you the example of the gentleman whose house had been demolished at some point. His mortgage was paid off, but he was out on the street with no money. All the authorities said that we want to help, but this gentleman does not fit into one of the arrangements. So I actually want a game for the category "other." [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas most minor damages are resolved quickly and properly;]] [[Whereas a small group of mine-damaged people is in need of further support;]] [[calls on the Government to make funds available to assist the National Coordinator Groningen in special circumstances of mining damage with cases such as damage expertise, legal or financial assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Smaling and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-266]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u130	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his answers and his commitments on a number of points. I am particularly pleased with the commitment on schools and what is being done for monuments. I think we are taking important steps in these areas. I'm filing a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas all Groningers are entitled to a rapid solution;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that "old cases" may also request that their case be dealt with by the arbitrator,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas damage sometimes has multiple causes or is covered by different schemes, and that people have lost a lot of time in contact with all kinds of bodies;]] [[calls on the Government to work with the National Coordinator Groningen to ensure that all people with damage can reach one point of contact by September 2016 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, with the National Coordinator Groningen, to ensure that the damage is recorded not only in houses but also in houses outside the contour maps, so that the cause and approach of the damage can be determined quickly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Agnes Mulder, Wassenberg and Klever.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-267]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber and Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-268]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Wassenberg and Klever.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-269]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u131	Let me point out at that motion that only recording the damage does not, of course, mean that all the damage will automatically have to be compensated by, for example, the NAM. Then comes the provision on who is responsible for what damage. However, it is important to quickly have an image to ensure that people are not in an unsafe situation in a house without their knowledge. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to explore with the National Coordinator Groningen the more direct management of the Safe Living Centre by the National Coordinator Groningen could contribute to accelerating the provision of solutions to Groningers;]] [[calls on the Government also to examine whether the Safe Living Centre can speed up the handling of cases by providing ex post accounting for damages, rather than having to ask for prior agreement at all times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren and Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-270]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u132	I realize that one motion resembles a motion tabled by the Christian Union. We can see if we can put it together later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u133	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u134	Mr. Chairman. This minister presents a very different and much more positive picture of the situation in Groningen than is apparent from various reports that have come to us from among others the supervisory committee, the independent counsellor, the Groninger Bottom Movement, Association Eigen Huis and Rijksuniversiteit Groningen and from the many emails of residents. I therefore have the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a buy-out scheme limited to 50 dwellings has been established;]] [[whereas 95% of the current value of the property is reimbursed to residents for their damaged property;]] [[considers that the compensation should be paid at the value of the property before earthquake damage occurred and that the WPA value of 1 January 2012 best meets that requirement;]] [[Calls on the Government to buy-in housing from the buy-out scheme at least 95% of the WPA value as of 1 January 2012 and to lift the limitation of the size of the scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-271]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u135	I hope that the PvdA Group will support this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that minor damage is generally resolved quickly but that the handling of large complex damage takes months to years;]] [[Considering that the number of damage handled seems high on paper but that in reality the handling of often major damage remains on the shelf for thousands of people;]] [[Whereas psychological and physical complaints occur precisely in people who are confronted with major damage;]] [[calls on the government to recover the complex damage cases as quickly as all other damages cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klever, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-272]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u136	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the particular care he has taken in addressing the questions raised by the Chamber. I would also like to thank him for the commitment to look very closely at the way in which we talk about damage caused by soil movement caused by mining installations and their operation. I would also like to thank him for his commitment to look again closely at the way in which NAM and other stakeholders in the area deal with damage. On behalf of my group, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Board of Arbiters has been set up as (for the NAM) binding dispute settlement committee for damages in which there is a disagreement as to the causal link between the damage and the gas extraction;]] [[Whereas, where appropriate, there is a relationship between gas extraction, soil decline, water levels and damage within the meaning of Article 177 of Book 6 of the WFD;]] [[Whereas there are also damage cases in which the damage is partly or solely attributable to the water levels, which are affected by the waterboards;]] [[Whereas the Arbiters Council of Earthquake damage can only be an effective and complete arbitration committee if the waterboards commit themselves to the rulings of the Arbiters Council of Earthquake damage, including compensation for damages to be paid;]] [[Calls on the Minister to enter into consultations with the waterboards in order to commit them to the Arbiters Council's rulings on Earthquake damage, and to report on this to the Chamber before 1 September 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-273]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u137	No, a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u138	A point of order even.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u139	Mr Smaling asked for an assessment of Mr Bashir's motion. There is also a motion-Omtzigt/Agnes Mulder from the CDA. Can the Minister include these in the assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u140	That is a request from Mr Bosman. I'll leave that to the Minister. The Minister has requested a suspension in order to find out a few things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u141	I would like to welcome the Minister again. I'd like to give him, and only him, the floor. Mrs Van Tongeren, I am only giving the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u142	Mr. Chairman. That's what I like to hear. Mrs Mulder started with a motion asking the government to make the pilots a success by carefully monitoring the implementation. She also immediately asked to support where necessary and to encourage the NAM to expand and further finance. The pilot is designed to learn what the best approach is to solve the problems. It's already running, the registration period's already closed. I can't change the pilot now. We've already published it and we're working on it. I want to run the pilot first and then talk about it. As soon as possible, I will share the results with the Chamber. I will draw the conclusions to how I see it and then talk to the Chamber about it. Then we can see how we proceed. Right now I have to finish the pilot and I can't make any more changes to it. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. 259 by Mrs Mulder, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u143	I can only imagine the Minister's reasoning. It's really about funding. The report by the National Coordinator Groningen states that the National Coordinator will set up selection criteria if the EUR 10 million is not enough. My point is that at that time he should call both the Minister and the NAM to see if they can make available the extra money needed for the pilot. It should not be the case that the single extra euro is not the case. That's what I'm asking the Minister to do. I could take this broadening out of the motion, but I think that funding is a very important point. Is that something the Minister has ears for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u144	No, because that selection is also part of the pilot. Anyone who has his house for sale for more than a year could sign up. 800 people could have applied. A limited number have done so. Some of them are people who want a house outside the area and some people who want another house inside the area. It really looks at how you can make a good selection on the basis of those applications with the available budget. It then looks at how it works in practice. You can draw conclusions from that, after which others may come back into the picture. I think we really should leave it at that. At some point, you're gonna have to go on. We've set up a pilot. I've switched it with the Chamber before. We have made a sum available and published the pilot. I want to run it now and not change things anymore. I'm dissuading the motion. The Mulder/Dik-Faber motion in part No. 260 is about the research of the University of Groningen. She states that the things that emerged from the research of the University of Groningen should actually be involved in his work by the CBS. I think it is indeed useful for the CBS to take into account the work done by the University of Groningen in its work. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. To the motion in part No. I am not yet able to get to 261, because I have to deal first with two other points by Mrs Mulder. She asked about the inspections. She asked how they relate, what are the assessments of others and what is the assessment of what should happen for the reinforcement of the National Coordinator Groningen. The National Coordinator Groningen does not yet have a view on what needs to be done. He has set up an extensive research programme which he is currently discussing with all concerned. First of all, this is about the people whose house it is about. That's happening now. After that, he will have an opinion on it and we will see how it all relates to each other. For me, what the National Coordinator comes up with is decisive. I believe that Mrs Mulder and I have no different views on this. Ms Mulder asked if the National Coordinator's budget would be sufficient until 2024. We have set up an organisation and also made money available for enlargement. We have also arranged funding for a number of things around which he has an interest. I am convinced that what the National Coordinator wants and needs to do has been met in a reasonable way. There's money for that. If developments occur, I will always look into them. In the motion-Dik-Faber c.s. in piece No. 261 the government is asked to make proposals to move the Centre's Safe Living at a greater distance. The Centre for Safe Living is remotely located. It has the opportunity to settle the damages, unless it involves greater damage. They can occur in all kinds of forms. Then it makes sense for the person who has to bear the outcome to have his own involvement. I think that the involvement of NAM in the Centre for Safe Living is reasonable, especially with the supervision that the National Coordinator is going to keep and given the space that the Centre for Safe Living currently has to settle matters. You can see in practice that this also works well. I therefore advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 262 Ms Dik-Faber indicated that the National Coordinator should be independent of the NAM. The National Coordinator is of course independent of the NAM. He works for us, for me. He runs a public administration consisting of different levels of government: municipalities, the province and the Empire with different ministries. The multiannual programme of the National Coordinator with everything in it does not require the approval of the NAM. It has, of course, been discussed and will continue to be discussed with the NAM, because it is involved financially and in other ways. The National Coordinator will therefore have constant consultation with the NAM, but he does so from his own position. The costs of the reinforcement programme should also be borne by the NAM. It must be accountable and therefore it must have an understanding of the programme of reinforcement. There must therefore be a normal interaction between the National Coordinator and the NAM. This means that this motion has no added value with regard to that independent position. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u145	I shall come back to the motion on the position of the National Coordinator Groningen. I can imagine that the NAM, if it does indeed have to pay, will, for example, have a conversation or have an advisory role. But the addendum to the cooperation agreement says quite literally: the National Coordinator Groningen draws up a draft annual plan and submits it to the financiers, including the NAM, for approval. So the proposals come from the National Coordinator and the one who approves it is the NAM. That's the world upside down, isn't it? Then it's not the content, it's the money, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u146	The National Coordinator shall draw up the multiannual programme. It is about what the government thinks of it, what the municipalities think of it and what the province thinks of it. But parts of that program have direct financial effects on the NAM. This means that the NAM must have an opinion on this. If you want to be able to carry out all the things the National Coordinator imagines, it is very easy if you have been able to make agreements about them at an early stage, when drawing up the programme, instead of having to start discussions about them again later. That's how you should read it. It is not the case that the National Coordinator is a subordinate of the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u147	It just literally says that the NAM approves the National Coordinator's annual plans. Again, we both want the National Coordinator to operate independently. Then let there be no discussion about this and adjust that cooperation agreement so that the content is guiding, the coordinator can do what needs to be done and funding will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u148	I intend to look at what Mrs Dik-Faber has said and see whether the wording chosen fully covers the purpose. If not, we will have to improve it. I have just indicated how I see it, how we act, how I see the involvement of the NAM and that I think it is functional that, if they are involved at an early stage, there is financial clarity about it and the National Coordinator can do his job on that basis. I think that's a normal interaction between the National Coordinator and the NAM. I will look into whether the wording chosen is the wording that we must retain in the future. However these wordings may be, we are applying it as I have just explained. In the motion-Dik-Faber/Wassenberg in part No. 263 is called for a parliamentary survey. That's not up to me. I would like to leave it to the Chamber to have an opinion on that. Mr Bosman has made a number of positive points. I'm glad he did, because we're all working together to get things done. We've done a lot together, too. It's okay if we're aware of that. Mr Bosman said that Groningen has a future because all these things are being addressed. Natural gas extraction will be reduced, amounts will be available for all kinds of purposes, it will be a test site for the 5G application, the chemical cluster has been strengthened, the Economic Board has received money and we are at zero on the meter in the area. Then I haven't even mentioned the schools; what happens to the schools is unique. There are a lot of things going on in Groningen that give perspective and positive prospects for the area. That is something area has every right to do, given all that has happened. Mr Bosman has asked me to respond to the Omtzigt motion, which calls on the government to ensure that the Chamber understands secret agreements, that there should be no secret agreements, that people should not be held to them and that the Chamber should be informed of them before 1 September. I have already said that as far as those agreements are concerned, the NAM adheres to them, but that people are free to communicate about them. Indeed, no new agreements are concluded with that provision anymore, except if the people themselves want it because of their privacy. In these cases, the NAM is prepared to include that provision. I think that I have already made that quite clear, which has already been reflected in the intention of this motion. Mr Smaling asked me to respond to the Bashir motion. That motion states that the handling of the damage by the NAM was distanced from the Centre Secure Living, but that the NAM still has too much influence on that. The motion also states that it is necessary to ensure that the NAM pays the damages without further interference and that they must be deposited in the account of the injured parties. In any case, a resident with damage has the right to have it paid out and to organise the recovery himself. I have already said that I would very much like to see if there is damage, which is dealt with directly, or on behalf of the Centre for Safe Living or on behalf of the person suffering the damage. That's very good for the quality of the homes. It's very good to settle this case. It is also very good to get all the people who are ready in the building world to work. But in the end, people have a right to be compensated for the damage. In the end, they decide on the form themselves. What are the underlying causes of the current situation, the National Coordinator wants to have an investigation, but the right to compensation is still at the top. The Centre for Safe Living, myself and the National Coordinator are making every effort to ensure that damage recovery is done as quickly and adequately as possible, as this is of the utmost importance for the safety of the area and of the people in their homes. For that reason, I advise against this motion, in which other things are asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u149	However, I would like the Minister's answer to the question whether the NAM might break the law by shaping that fixing agreement in such a way that the low VAT rate can apply or that VAT can be reclaimed. Can the Minister assure me that this will not be the case with the restoration of the Groninger Forum, at schools, or what else is coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u150	In the case of the accounts held in the name of the NAM, the NAM may act accordingly as regards the VAT duties. Accounts that are registered in another person's name are in the other person's name and then the other person has to do the things that need to be done with the Tax Office. We've separated those things strictly. I have already said that the NAM did not deduct any amounts that are debatable in the VAT return. In the future, there is no intention to change the name of the accounts and deal with them themselves. What's for them, let them put in their own name. I think we have solved this problem. Mr Smaling also tabled a motion on part No. 264, which states that an independent team of experts must be set up to break the deadlock. I believe that Mr Smaling's request is in line with the recommendation of the Security Research Council that a separate knowledge programme should be set up to assess the effects of mining. It should not be the case that this expertise is all with the NAM, or that the NAM should use expertise, but it should also be set up independently of the NAM. I intend to inform the Chamber of 29 June of the design of that knowledge programme. I propose that Mr Smaling look at whether what I am doing there is in line with what he wants and that this motion be retained for so long. If that is not to his liking, then we can discuss it again on another occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u151	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u152	At the request of Mr Smaling, I propose his motion (33529, No. 264). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u153	In the motion of Mrs Van Tongeren c.s. in piece No. 265 is asked the government to consider an update by the Security Research Council of their report on earthquake risks in Groningen. I understand from the explanatory statement that it is intended to cover the period after 2012, with the question whether the safety of the people in Groningen has been at the forefront since 2012. I am busy implementing those recommendations of the Research Council for Security, including by amending the Mining Act. I intend to inform the Chamber about this implementation by the end of the year. We've already talked about it. Everyone sees that security is at the forefront right now. That's what's being sent all the way to it. We are busy implementing these recommendations. For that reason, I find it not useful to ask for a new investigation to begin again. I don't think that has any added value. That's why I'm free to make the motion in part no. Dissuade 265. In the motion-Van Tongeren c.s. in piece No. 266 the government is asked to make funds available to assist the National Coordinator Groningen in special circumstances with matters such as damage expertise and legal and financial assistance. We have to realise that I have now said that legal aid insurance can be taken out. The point is that there are people who do not have legal aid insurance, but who do want to have that assistance, who incur costs that are somehow to be financed by the National Coordinator. I don't think this is right. It's everyone's own responsibility. We have arranged that the damage expertise is free, as well as any second damage expertise. The costs for the arbitrator shall not be charged. I think we got this right. People who have legal aid insurance and still want to go to court can be assisted at the expense of that insurance. Complementing that is not what I want to do. I have told Mrs Van Tongeren that I will send a letter to the Chamber in which I state exactly what is going on with the insurers. In practice, if there is a problem in this respect, I will consider what further action may be needed. I'll get back to you on that. However, I assume that the information I have just given to the Chamber is correct. I'll look into it and I'll write to the Chamber about it. We will then see if there is any reason to do anything else. Right now, I'm not recommending Mrs Van Tongeren's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u154	I am thinking, for example, of the gentleman and his house. Eventually he signed an agreement; his mortgage was paid off and his house was demolished. He was on the street. He's not getting a place to live anymore. All sorts of agencies wanted to help him, but he didn't fit in any category. What I want to achieve is that the National Coordinator has a small opportunity to pull the wallet immediately in such a case. This can also occur in people who do have legal aid insurance, but only when they want to find out that this is not possible at all. They have gone through the very nice process outlined by the Minister, but it is not working. In the Netherlands, anyone can go to court. These people thought they were insured, but at the moment they discover that this is not the case. That's why I added "in special circumstances." Shouldn't that be possible? It is only the intention to give the National Coordinator some space that is not fully framed. Our mailbox occasionally gets a message from someone everyone says they need help, but it just doesn't fit into any arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u155	There is also, of course, a responsibility of one's own in Groningen. They want them too, but they don't take them entirely. If there is a task for the municipality, then the municipality is there to fulfil that task. If housing is a problem, then the housing corporation is there to help find a solution. The National Coordinator is here to direct that. I think the various responsibilities are clear. The National Coordinator can direct. There is no need to make additional funds available for this purpose. So I'm going to leave it to you to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u156	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u157	The Minister ruled out the possibility of anyone falling through the loopholes of all these arrangements, so. The man I was talking about ended up in the homeless and homeless shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u158	I can't rule out things going wrong in Groningen every once in a while. Things sometimes go wrong in the Achterhoek and in other parts of the country. Of course it does. It is not the case that we can find a solution in advance through the National Coordinator. There is the responsibility of the people, there is the responsibility of the municipal authorities and the municipal organisations and there is the responsibility of the housing corporations. The coordinator can direct if necessary. In such a case, he can also contact a housing corporation and make sure something happens. I think that this is in his good hands and that it is not necessary to make an additional amount available by means of a motion for a resolution. In the motion by Mrs Van Veldhoven and others. in piece No. 267 the government is invited to ensure that "old cases', as they are mentioned in the motion, may also request that their case be dealt with by the arbitrator. It is not our intention to keep old cases that are still dragging away from the arbitrator. We have put something new in place for that. There are five arbitrators. They started the new business, this year's business. They are already looking at the cases from the second half of last year. If more capacity becomes available, they will also be able to handle older cases. I'd like to approach that positively. If Mrs Van Veldhoven can agree with my explanation and the phased approach to the old cases, then I leave the judgement on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u159	I certainly can. I assume that a possible very urgent and complex case under these old cases may then be given priority. I think that all this will prove itself in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u160	Thank you. In her motion in part No. 268 asks Ms Van Veldhoven the government to ensure that through the National Coordinator all people with damage can reach one point of contact by September 2016. We must make a distinction here. People with damages in Groningen can contact the Centre for Safe Living or the National Coordinator Groningen. So this is settled for them. Mrs Mulder has also spoken a number of times about this one-stop shop, which is one point that can be addressed in the case of mining damage throughout the country. I promised Mrs Mulder that I would come forward with an impact before 29 June. I propose that Mrs Van Veldhoven wait for that effect and then check whether it is sufficient, in addition to what I said about the Centre for Safe Living and the National Coordinator. I therefore propose that she hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u161	If, in the letter he has promised to Mrs Mulder, the Minister can also deal with situations where there is damage that could be partly on behalf of the waterboard and we will ensure that people are not sent from the locker to the wall, I am happy to keep this motion. So I'm waiting for that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u162	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (33529, No. 268). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u163	In her motion in part No. 269 asks the government, with the National Coordinator, to ensure that the damage is recorded not only in houses but also outside the contour card, so that it can be resolved quickly. In my first term, I answered the question that went on with yes, but I do not think that I have fully taken up the complexity of the whole. If someone from Walcheren reports any damage, of course someone from Groningen doesn't have to storm into it. Nor can all cases be shaved in the same way. It should be considered whether a reasonable relationship is possible with the earthquakes there and whether it is reasonably desirable to look at them. More detailed details are currently being developed on how this should be done in which area and in which cases. I have already said that, in addition to the research, validation also plays a role. I think it would be wise to provide this whole issue with an answer as soon as that validation is available and the National Coordinator and I have been able to draw conclusions from it. We must therefore deal with this point and come to the Chamber with it. For the second time, I would suggest to Mrs Van Veldhoven that she hold her motion until we have done this preliminary work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u164	I think everyone understands that there must be a reasonable relationship; at least I share that view with the Minister. The question is how this reasonable relationship is now set up. It seems as if such an assessment is only done now if you fall within the contour map. I also understand that the Minister says that he is still working on a counter-analysis and that he wants to include it before he makes his final decision. Perhaps the Minister and I can find each other when we say that we are just getting started with the cases that have now been registered and that the final decision on how to deal with them will not be taken until the TU Delft study is available. In the end, this was also the subject of part of the debate. In the meantime, we are not letting all the people who register now just wait. I also understand that the Minister cannot help all these people at the same time, but let us continue to work on the existing work stock, so that as many people as possible can be clarified quickly. And if the minister has that report, he'll make his final decision as to what he thinks is a reasonable relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u165	Mrs Klever mentioned that it would be 3,300 cases. That is not the case; there are less than half of them. It's 1,600-so many cases. They're registered. We're working on it. Arcadis is over. There's a lot of work being done on validation. Soon it will come to a conclusion. This will be discussed and then we will adopt our policies. This is how we do it now: register, focus on validation and then draw conclusions. It seems to me that it is better to maintain this than to say that we are going to send all the people there to record all those cases of damage. My preference is to do it as I have just said. I think that this is a substantive right to what Mrs Van Veldhoven is trying to do, so I would once again suggest that she hold on to this motion and not encourage me to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u166	Of course, I would never encourage the Minister to do that, let us be clear about that. But I also know that the Minister would not like people to wait unnecessarily long. There really are indications that, despite living just outside the contour map, there may be reason to believe that there is earthquake damage after all. Perhaps one last attempt: could the Minister ask again to run a quick scan on the stock there, to see if there is an unsafe situation in some cases? It is then a question of helping the real border cases in the meantime. None of us want people to end up in an unsafe house for a few months. These are the situations for which we have to take responsibility before the Minister makes his final decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u167	Let us be aware of what this is about. We have made a map which shows what earthquakes have been and which area has been affected by these earthquakes. We then gave a broader explanation. Now it's about the damages reported outside that area. There is an investigation by Arcadis which states that if that damage is due to soil movement, there is no relationship between that damage and natural gas extraction. So at the moment I have no title to do what Mrs Van Veldhoven is asking. I don't want to reject it either, because Arcadis' research is still under validation. I would rather not come between now and drawing conclusions from that validation with quickscans or policy changes. It's complicated enough what has to be done. If there is an in-depth investigation, I think it is quite right that you should issue a validation of this from Delft University of Technology. I think we are dealing with it very carefully and I ask the Chamber to give me the opportunity to complete it in this way and not to change again in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u168	Mrs Van Veldhoven can indicate whether or not she is holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u169	I'm gonna take another look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u170	In the motion-Klever c.s. in piece No. 271 is requested by the government to purchase houses from the buy-out scheme at 95% of the WPA value as of 1 January 2012. I can't do anything more about the buy-out scheme. It's a pilot that's already been published. People were able to sign up for this throughout May. A certain effect has been given on how all this is going to look. It's all been done and I can't change that retroactively. Moreover, I do not like to reason entirely from the World Health Organisation value, because of the fact that, due to very low interest rates and the attracting economy, the value of the property is higher than the World Health Organisation value on 1 January 2012. Then why do you have to focus on that World War II value? I think it would be much better to focus on economic value and take 95% of that. I have indicated that on average there is still a 2% increase due to the depreciation scheme. I think this is a good arrangement, which is also in line with 'Moerdijk'. That is why I do not recommend the adoption of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u171	In his enthusiasm, the Minister is the Van Veldhoven and others motion. in piece No. 270 forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u172	Then I'm going back to the motion on part number one. 270, Chairman, with my apologies. It invites the government to examine whether the Safe Living Centre can speed up the handling of cases by ex post accountability, rather than always having to ask for prior agreement. It is not always necessary to seek agreement in advance. The Centre for Safe Living has the opportunity to take off a lot of business. This is a matter of particular financial consequences. I think it is reasonable, then, to discuss this with the person who has to pay the bill. In the current way they have the space, because they are placed remotely. I have already said what is necessary about supervision, as well as about the possibilities they have to do their own work independently of the NAM itself and to deal with their affairs completely. That seems sufficient to me, and that is why I am not asking Mrs van Veldhoven to hold her motion, but I must advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u173	Very briefly, Mrs Van Veldhoven!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u174	It is a point in the report of the Supervisory Board of the Centre for Safe Living. The committee believes that there can be acceleration and improvement in this area. I can still imagine that there is a ceiling above which there should be consultation, but apparently the committee believes that this ceiling is not at the right level. Is the Minister prepared to look at that ceiling again and report to the Chamber on that? Then I could hold that motion until we get that analysis from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u175	I will do what Mrs Van Veldhoven asks and I will also deal with it in the next quarterly report of the National Coordinator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u176	When can we receive it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u177	I don't know about that, but at the next quarterly report of the National Coordinator, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u178	Fine. Then I'll take this motion. I assume this will be just after the summer. I'm sure we'll have another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u179	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (33529, No. 270). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u180	Then I come to the motion on part No. Mrs Klever et al., in which she asks for complex damage cases to be repaired as quickly as other damage cases. This cannot be done; in the case of a complex case of damage, special investigations must be carried out and more should be discussed. We now have a very short period of time for the average handling of matters at the Centre Secure Living. Where delays occur, they are caused by the fact that people do not react quickly once they have received an offer, but leave it behind for a long time. The complex damage cases can never be treated exactly the same as other damage cases. For that reason, I have to make the motion in part no. 272 dissuade. The motion in part No. 273 by Mr Vos and co-signed by Mrs Van Veldhoven. It states that the waterboards must also be involved. Mr Vos asks me to consult with the waterboards. It seems useful to me to do so. In addition, besides the water boards, there are other parties that may be involved. In the spirit of the motion, I shall also bring it in. That means I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. That was my response to the spokesmen's motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-14.u181	I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply and for his advice. We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions next Tuesday. I thank all those present. I wish the visitors from Groningen a good and safe way home.
