ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. This part of Question Time is not about salafism; it is about Islam. The vanguards of Islam aim to Islamicize the Netherlands and the rest of the free West. Whether these vanguards are called salafists or wahabites, whether it's the Muslim Brotherhood or Fethullah Gülen or Erdogan himself doesn't matter very much; it's the vanguards who decide for their effect what their future looks like and therefore try to determine our future through the problem we're facing now. A school building has been purchased for 1.7 million, with funding from a country that is a member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). So an OIC country, an Islamic country. This is done through Germany, through a foundation associated with Al-Waqf and Al-Fourqaan in Eindhoven. The Al-Fourqaan has already caused enough problems in the Netherlands with hate and violence preachers. The Minister says: I can't really do anything about it and we're all going to make sure that the building doesn't become a salafist school. We'll just have to see that, because what does this minister do? He does not fight Islam, but cooperates with Islamic foundations and Islamic vanguards. He's talking to them in the Knight's Room. That is exactly the opposite of what the minister of the week said by teletext. We at the PVV think it is a dangerous development that a school building is being purchased in Rotterdam by the vanguards of Islam, in order to achieve their goal, namely the establishment of the sharia as Dutch legislation. That is why I have a number of questions. Does the Minister agree with me, also because of the explanation I give, that we not only have a problem with so-called Salafists, but with all the vanguards of Islam and thus with all Islam? Because under Islam there is no salafism. The Sharia is the target and the jihad is the way. This too is part of the jihad. Is the Minister prepared to go through the jihadists' bill once, whether they act violently or through education in this way? Is he willing to undo this purchase? Why can Islam still get more and more grounded in the Netherlands? Why is funding from OIC countries still possible? Why is it not forbidden, as the Minister himself would like? I have two more questions, and I'll keep it a little shorter later. Is the Minister prepared to send a list to the Chamber with all the institutions in the Netherlands financed by OIC money or by countries affiliated to the OIC? Is the Minister prepared to stop Islamization for once? If not, why does the Minister then facilitate an ideology and a culture that seeks the submission of the Netherlands to Sharia?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is concerned about individuals and organisations who, from certain salafistic doctrines, incite intolerance and isolation. I wrote a letter to the Chamber earlier this year. We want to do three things about this: to ensure that people who break the law are dealt with by law enforcement; to ensure that organisations that do not violate the law but do have unwanted behaviour are confronted with it, especially from the local government, and to ensure that we make the rest of the Islamic community resilient to unwanted influences through dialogue. In the case of Rotterdam, a property has been purchased, in a non-transparent way, by a foundation that we are concerned about because of inviting hate preachers to Eindhoven. In itself, buying such a property is legal. The more important it is to see what's going to happen to that property. Firstly, it should be noted that an ordinary school cannot be established in it. That's what strict rules apply. Secondly, it is important to know what one intends to do with the property. I talked to Mayor Aboutaleb about this this morning. He goes to the table with the buyers and asks for clarification, precisely because of the commotion. He will also make it clear that neither the municipality of Rotterdam nor the Rijk will accept it if activities are carried out that are at odds with the Dutch core values. But then the answer to question one. The cabinet does distinguish between what people believe and what people do and therefore does not go along with the PVV reasoning that counts every Muslim and everyone who adheres to that belief in the same direction. We will have to distinguish between what people do, what people say and what people believe. What people believe is about themselves. This applies to Mr De Graaf and to everyone else in this Chamber, but we can address them on what people do. We are neutral with regard to faith, but we are not neutral with regard to the Dutch core values. We consider it important to actively defend them within the limits of the rule of law. The answer to Mr De Graaf's second question is that this means that there really must be a thick line through the account of jihadists when there is reason to assume that people intend to use such a building for jihadist or extremist activities. Then we can and will intervene. As far as funding is concerned, I refer to the letter from Minister Koenders which he sent out earlier today. In this we respond to some of the motions adopted by the Chamber, but for another part we refer to a further letter about this after the summer. Among other things, we are going to look at the analogy of Bibob legislation as a way of defending the rule of law if you have doubts about the origin of resources and the intentions of the buyers. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	Dialogue does not exist within Islam. Islam is a one-way street. The purchase of this property is a victory over a part of the West, because there is territory and a property purchased and that is not for a table tennis association. That is of course to spread Islam further in the Netherlands. I didn't say to throw all the Muslims together. I've appointed it on the basis of all the vanguards out there. I've named all the currents. They all have the same goal. Yes, it is. That's the sharia settlement in the Netherlands. The minister is not understood by the people. I read the comments on the Internet this week. The people say: Minister, why have you forsaken us, why do you not protect us from the advancing Islam in the Netherlands? We all know what kind of bullshit comes of it at the end. We saw it in Dhaka, we saw it in Orlando, we saw it in Istanbul, we see it everywhere. That's why I have a few more questions. Why does this minister stay away from his people and not protect her from the advancing Islam? Why does he still allow ownership, funded from Islamic countries, in particular from Saudi Arabia, Qatar and that region? Why is that still happening? Why does this minister remain in conversation with Islamic vanguards? Surely it is now clear, after the past few years, that the Minister is on the wrong path with this? You don't engage in dialogue with Islam, because Islam is one-way street. Can the Minister once again make it clear to the public that he is protecting her?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	When you're a hammer, you see nails everywhere. Mr De Graaf sees jihadists everywhere. I think it is crucial, precisely to protect the Netherlands and the rule of law, to distinguish between what people believe, between the many thousands of Muslims in the Netherlands who contribute every day and those who, inspired by Salafist doctrines, advocate intolerance or, worse, incite terror and violence. That distinction is crucial because the rule of law allows us to tackle that second group. We are. The convictions and the criminal investigations can be seen. This is precisely the first group to be protected from the extremism that is at stake here. That is a crucial distinction, and that is the only way we can really win it. I'm getting to point two. What's going on in Rotterdam? Yeah, I have those concerns too, and we shouldn't be naive about that either. It is not good to buy such a property under false pretenses in a shady way. However, it is not prohibited either. We can ban it if a law has been broken. The most important thing we can do right now is keep an eye on what they want to use that property for. That is also what Mr De Graaf and all of us are about. We must make it clear at the front that we will not allow it to be used for activities that are opposed to the Netherlands, society or the rule of law. That is exactly what I talked to Mr Aboutaleb about this morning. That's exactly what we'll ask them. Then we will protect the rule of law by all means of the same rule of law. That's more than Mr. De Graaf just suggested. The same rule of law protects Mr De Graaf and all the other well-intentioned and innocent citizens in the Netherlands. That's the security we have to offer each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr De Graaf, one sentence, because you have eight seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	Yeah, but of course I can just ask my follow-up question. As PVV, we are also entitled to two follow-up questions. So I can make use of that right immediately. The Minister's speech has been permeated with awareness...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr De Graaf, the follow-up question would be put from the group. You may ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	I've seen it happen here before. Sure, I saw that last week or two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	I think that's new, but I'd like you to finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	The Minister's argument is based on the realization that Islam is a problem. If you radicalize in that, then it comes to violence. Then you just let a property be purchased and then you check for problematic behavior. That's putting the horse behind the cart. You have to de-islamize the Netherlands and not help with further Islamicism, because then you put your own population at risk and you will participate in the eventual introduction of Sharia in the Netherlands. I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u12	I really disagree with Mr De Graaf on this. Like those radical preachers, he has the view that there is only one true Islam and that it always leads to violence, Sharia, etc. The reality of a lot of Dutch people shows something else. These people also want to be free from extremism and violence. They are not waiting for that development. That's why it's crucial to judge people by their behavior, by what they do, by what they say instead of what they think and what they believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr Sjoerdsma has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u14	I think Mrs. Karabulut was earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u15	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u16	D66 is very concerned about foreign funding flows, especially when they lead to intolerance and hate-sowing. In this Chamber we have often talked about the transparency of funding flows. The cabinet has always said that we share these concerns. But what does a broadcast of Nieuwsuur reveal? The cabinet already knows how Saudi Arabia spends the money here and is even being consulted. Can Minister Asscher clarify how the government is involved by countries like Saudi Arabia in spending every euro on behalf of religious institutions in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u17	I really have to refer to Minister Koenders' letter on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u18	I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u19	I must refer to Mr Koenders' letter. That letter just came out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u20	That letter doesn't contain the answer to my question. The letter was co-signed by Minister Asscher. I would like an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u21	If you would like further information on its content, the letter refers to the appropriate channels and that is not this channel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr Sjoerdsma, you also referred this question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs as an oral question. I understand there's a letter. On the basis of this letter, you can request a debate or hold a general discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u23	I am asking a question here in Oral Question Time. Of course I can ask for a letter, of course I can ask for written questions, of course I can request a debate, but I have read the letter and on the basis of that letter and on the basis of the Nieuwsuur broadcast I would like a reply from Minister Asscher on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u24	I've already given my answer twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u25	Then I can only observe that the cabinet refuses to clarify the way in which the cabinet is consulted by countries like Saudi Arabia when it comes to financial support in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u26	Once again, I have referred to the appropriate channels and that is not this place and this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u27	This is the world upside down. This really hits everything. This subject has everything to do with the funding from Saudi Arabia of this possible institute. The NRC article states that Al-Waqf, the foundation through which this property was purchased, is closely linked to the establishment of Saudi Arabia. Could this blurryness have anything to do with the fact that the government is also closely linked to the establishment of Saudi Arabia? I remind the Minister that it decapitates apostates, stones gays and places women as inferior beings. That is why the Court has been asking for transparency of funding for years. There is a list, but the Minister and the Cabinet refuse to share it, possibly at the expense of the future of our children who will soon be taught by wahabism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u28	This is oral Question Time, which raises short questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u29	It tends somewhat to the absurdity that is now being claimed that the cabinet is connected to that regime. That's bullshit, of course. I have been accused a lot lately, but I find this a very special accusation. Mr Sjoerdsma asked how it works, what foundations it concerns, what the situation is. I referred to a letter from Mr Koenders on this subject, which states that he is receiving certain information through diplomatic channels and that he does not feel free to disclose it, but wants to share it with the Chamber through appropriate channels. No, there is no connection between the government and the regime of Saudi Arabia. No, I also do not think it would be desirable for this type of foundation to purchase this type of building with funding from the Gulf States. The purchase in Rotterdam, about which the question is asked, is in itself legal, even though it is not a good thing that it has been done intransparently. This contributes to the great commotion that has arisen. All the more important is that the buyers give text and explanation to the municipality, to Mayor Aboutaleb of Rotterdam about what they want to do. They will be told that they will have to abide by the Dutch rule of law with everything that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mrs Karabulut, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u31	Now it becomes interesting, because now the question arises as to why there has not been a preliminary examination. What does the cabinet do with these kinds of purchases at all? It says in the letter that the Cabinet does have knowledge of institutions and/or mosques financed from Saudi Arabia, but it apparently refuses to share that information with the Chamber and therefore with municipalities from diplomatic and/or commercial interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u32	There is a distinction between having knowledge of something and being able to prevent it. It is not prohibited in the Netherlands to purchase a property using foreign financing. Maybe it's not desirable. It is certainly not desirable for it to be done in a non-transparent manner, and I agree with Mrs Karabulut, but it is not prohibited. That means you can't stop the purchase on your own. In this case, the municipality of Rotterdam came to the attention of the public for the first time in the spring. That interest was still denied at the time. At the end of June, it turns out the building was bought. That happened again with unwanted foreign financing, but it is not prohibited to do so. The fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs receives information about applications from the Netherlands for funding from Saudi Arabia, but that he is not allowed to share that information because otherwise he will no longer receive it, has nothing to do with trade interests, but with diplomatic traffic. The Minister will be happy to give the Chamber more details and explanations on this matter. It is precisely because we have an interest in getting that kind of information in the future, so that we can share it with the appropriate services, that it is very important not to violate that confidentiality. This is independent of trade interests and it is independent of our view of the regime there and of the way human rights are handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u33	It is to be commended in the Minister that he wants to do justice to the fight against radicalisation and terrorism on the one hand and religious freedom on the other. I think it is a good line to speak with discernment about currents within, for example, Islam. However, this discussion goes back to at least three years ago when Mr Tellegen and I tabled a motion. Look at this, we asked, because the AIVD reports on Salafism and says that the dividing line between jihadism and salafism is fading. Do we have to wait for an incident every time? Is it every time waiting for the fact to lie there, the purchase has been made, possibly financed from abroad with an agenda that is potentially threatening? Do we have to wait every time for an incident or is the cabinet also proactive, take steps in advance and do we have a more active policy to counter this sort of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u34	As far as I'm concerned, it has to be en-and. Once there is reason to think that something can lead to criminal offences, because that is what Mr Segers is talking about, or that it can lead to support for terrorist organisations, which is also a criminal offence, then you can take much more proactive steps. There is another motion by Mr Marcouch, to which Minister Van der Steur must respond in the autumn of this year. He is asked in that motion to look at a ban of such organizations, following the way in which these organizations, based on Salafist doctrines, behave in Dutch society. There will, however, be a need to be consistent about this, and I hope that we will always be able to agree on this. The mere fact that people have a certain belief, even though that belief is far from us and we may find it creepy or objectionable, is not enough within a rule of law to proceed with a ban. That doesn't mean you always have to wait for people to cross the line. If there is cause, if there is a relationship with behavior, if the context gives rise to it, then the rule of law can show teeth, and so will it, if necessary. Van der Steur must respond to that particular motion. In this case, we have sufficient cause for concern and we should not be naive. This organisation has already shown that, in spite of the views of the cabinet and the municipality of Eindhoven, it has invited speakers who preach hatred and intolerance. She's not very good with us. If, under false pretenses, such an organization buys such a remarkable property, extreme vigilance is required, but on the basis of its behaviour, there is currently no legal reason or possibility to prevent or prohibit that purchase. What can you do? From the municipality you can centralize the granting of all the permits required for each use, so that you have the full view of what one plans to do there. You can call on the organisation in question to make clear what the frameworks of the Dutch rule of law are and that we will not accept a millimeter distance from them. If criminal law is dealt with, you can use it or through the granting of a licence, a way through which you can do more than one sometimes thinks that it is counterproductive and prevent it from going that way. In the context of the rule of law, these are the possibilities we have, but I agree with Mr Segers: past behaviour counts in the assessment of this type of organisation and its caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u35	I think it's just unacceptable that we should have our children raised with anti-democratic and unbearable theories. We are talking about salafism here; we are talking about the Al-Waqfmoskee in Eindhoven; we are also talking about the Dawah Group from Utrecht, which sees an opportunity to educate young people who have grown up in this society with these wretched theories. We must prevent this from happening. I have two questions for this Minister. First of all... Is he gonna bet that teaching institute isn't gonna be there? Second. Could the municipality have prevented this by acting more actively, so that we could not have had this discussion in the Chamber now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u36	First of all, the second point. As I can judge it now, that is not the case. I don't think there are any instruments to prevent such a purchase on its own right now. In the case of such a purchase, the use of the property is a second. On the first point, I agree with Mr Azmani. It is not for nothing that we now, together with the municipality of Utrecht, investigate the way children in Utrecht are raised by alFirah. It is not acceptable for children to be raised with hatred against the society they are part of or if they are raised with only greater distance from the society in which they will later be successful. We have resources to do something about this, from youth protection, through the educational climate and so on. Can you prohibit a particular destination in advance, only if there is cause for it and "leading" must be more than just a feeling of assuming that one will use it in that way? In this case, there is certainly cause for concern, precisely because of the background that Mr Azmani has already outlined. That is also why I talked to the municipality of Rotterdam about it and that we agreed to have that conversation in advance. So that is different from what we usually do when the permit is granted, because then you can only look afterwards at what they intend to do with the property. In advance, it will be made clear from the congregation what one will find acceptable and not acceptable, and that will also be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u37	When I listen to this, there sounds some kind of collective powerlessness in it. Can the cabinet not now change its position and stand next to the CDA to ensure that the glorification of terrorist violence is punishable? Then we have a ground for refusal through all kinds of legislation, including the Bibob Law, in order to be able to act effectively. It seems as if we should just let it all happen a little bit now, because we do not have a factual, criminal stick with which we can really hit for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u38	The CDA knows I'm open in this discussion on my own. On the one hand, I believe that, within the framework of the rule of law, we should protect freedom of expression and not prohibit the glorification of an idea, however unsympathetic it may be. On the other hand, I think there is every reason to consider whether the limits of criminal law have been drawn sufficiently. In this respect, the Context case earlier this year in The Hague, where a number of people were convicted on the basis of what one might call glorification of terrorist violence combined with a number of other elements, is encouraging. This case shows that criminal law does indeed help to counter recruitment, facilitate and encourage people to travel to Syria. That's crucial. The cabinet is always willing, precisely on the basis of the casusism and what we see in society, to see if criminal law has enough teeth. But even if the CDA proposal had been law and applied extensively, it wouldn't have stood in the way of people buying a property, no matter how difficult it is. In this sense, the rule of law is always bound by its own rules of procedure. This gives us the duty not to be naive but to be vigilant and alert and to be on top of it with all the means that exist and sometimes to be creative in it. That is why I would like to consider the Bibob Act and hence that the authorisation of the municipality should be involved. However, it does not give us a title to prevent a legal transaction in itself. This is part of the rule of law, which we must protect here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u39	I fully agree with the Minister's last remark. The worst thing you can do in the direction of the rule of law is now in breach of the rules in a way that the rule of law does not actually allow. However, this does not alter the fact that the widespread concern is also a reality. It is precisely because this is such a precarious situation that I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to keep the House of Representatives informed of the progress of this process in terms of both authorisation and the activities to be carried out, whether in confidence or not, so that there is a basis of confidence that we do have it in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u40	Short response, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u41	That concern in society is perfectly understandable, precisely given the history of the purchase and the role that Al-Waqf has played and plays in Eindhoven. So yes, I am prepared to accept Mr Bishop's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u42	I'd like to come back to that earlier. Since the beginning of Islam, you've had two reactions. There are people who defend themselves from their own culture and resist Islamization and you have self-Islamicists. Is the Minister prepared to move from the camp of self-Islamics to the camp that resists Islamization of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u43	The Netherlands' own culture is the Dutch democratic rule of law. It means that we don't judge people by what they think or what they believe, but by what they do. People must respect the freedom of others. You'll have great freedom of your own. That freedom, that principle of our own culture, built after many years, I will defend at all times against everyone, whether they are extremists from one side or from the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u44	The Minister has tried to lecture here in response to many questions about this problem. Finally, the Minister said that he will always keep his back straight, so I will translate it against the advance of what threatens our freedom. However, he does exactly the opposite. You can't do that anymore, can you? The Minister gives the Netherlands away and says: no, I did my best. Under the leadership of this minister, the Netherlands is not happy and there is the main cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u45	We agree on the dangers that threaten us. Yes, there are people and organisations that are threatening the free Dutch rule of law. What is the appropriate answer now? You can put the rule of law overboard to protect him. You'll lose everything. You can also make sure that within the rule of law you judge people by their behaviour, by what they do, by terrorism and by radicalisation. You'll protect the rule of law. Then the rule of law is in place for anyone who wants to make some of it and who wants to comply with the law, with the rules of the Netherlands, whether they are Muslims or not. That space wants to give away the PVV and thus also question freedom itself. I am convinced that you will only win against the threats that exist by being very strict, unbearable, against jihadists and extremists, and protecting all those innocent people who want to contribute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. We know from Salafist organizations that they have an endeavor that is contrary to our core values. They're antidemocratic and sow hatred. They don't reject violence and they don't renounce it. What is happening in Rotterdam is an extension of these Salafist organisations. It is a breeding ground for radicalism and jihadism. Is the Minister prepared to do everything with Rotterdam to stop this initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u47	I am prepared to do everything in my power to prevent the purchase of that property from leading to the phenomenon that Mr Marcouch has just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you, Minister.
