ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I filled my car. One liter cost me €0.988. A year ago it was around €1.35. I paid about 20 bucks less on one tank turn. Logical: lower oil price, lower pump price. But who sketches our surprise? Research by VCK Travel shows that many airlines still charge hundreds of euros of fuel surcharge, while prices have fallen. This surcharge was introduced because of the high oil price of ten years ago, but although the oil price has now fallen, the surcharge, especially on intercontinental flights, is still collected. Next year alone, Air France-KLM will save up to 2 billion euros due to low fuel costs, 2 billion euros! Research has shown that Emirates is back there, having even the highest surcharges, while it is expected that the fuel in the Middle East would be much more profitable. What about the traveler? The traveller seems to have checked again: first pay the surcharge, then pay the price down, and the traveller is empty-handed. That's why I'm asking the following questions. Firstly, does the Secretary of State know the investigation to which I referred and do she share the conclusions of this investigation? Secondly, is the traveller well informed? The website of Schiphol says that the price of a ticket is partly determined by the fuel surcharge. To what extent is that still the case? And if that's the case, shouldn't that supplement go down as soon as possible? Thirdly, is the Secretary of State aware that airlines have now come up with a new supplement? It's called a hard word "carrier impressed charge." Some would call that "fuel surcharge." Those airlines changed the name, and what turns out? Under another name they have entered the supplement again, exactly the same amount. Is this correct, and what is the State Secretary's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I believe that we must see that aviation operates in a free market and that airlines themselves determine the level of their ticket prices. They can indeed charge and charge fuel surcharges or other surcharges; Mr Monasch has just given an example, which I know. It is essential, however, for the traveller, when booking a ticket, to be clear that the surcharge is there. Fortunately, we have regulations for that. In Europe it has been established that at the time of booking a ticket, the other surcharges, whether they are the price of carrying a suitcase, a fuel surcharge or any other charge, should always be known. The traveller must know the price at the time of booking, including all surcharges. That's important. The Authority Consumer & Market is also paying attention to this. It shall monitor compliance with these rules. We have just checked, not only for Mr Monasch, but also for him. I am not aware that there are problems with this at the moment. This clarity is provided by the airlines. Of course, it is also a question of competition. When you want to attract more travellers, I can very well imagine that you want to do so. Of course, it is an option for those travellers to actually benefit from lower fuel prices, for example. I end with the technical remark that this is not always one-on-one to translate directly into the ticket price, because apparently some companies are also buying their kerosene ahead, so to speak, and so not quite one-on-one in line with the way oil prices take shape internationally. But this is more of a technical explanation. In the end, it is up to the companies to make a good proposal for the traveller themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	Speaking of the good proposal, let us take a look at Air France-KLM's explanation of why this airline supposedly does not charge fuel surcharges but now comes up with that complicated new supplement. She says that there are all kinds of things in there, such as staffing, maintenance and catering. But those are costs that should just be in the price. So my question to the Cabinet and the Secretary of State is: is this not a question of inadequate, shady price formation? You pretend to be cheap, but at the same time you put everything in a surcharge. Is that allowed, especially when it comes to matters such as personnel and maintenance that should simply be included in the price? Aren't we just being fooled like this? What are the legal possibilities for doing something about this? This is about price formation. The Secretary of State has just indicated that it must be clear. I think there's all kinds of costs hidden in it, and, uh, rara, how can it be? The amount of the supplement is as high as the fuel surcharge until recently. These costs should simply be reflected in the price. This is how we're being fooled. Shouldn't this supplement just disappear?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	I don't think that's legally possible. It is important that consumers are protected from unexpected pricing when booking a ticket. This has been discussed in the past. They thought they had a good price for a ticket, but then it turned out that there was still a whole series of costs that had not been anticipated. That really had to end. It is important that European is committed that you know what to pay when you book the ticket. So you know that one society has a good basic price, but that there is a high surcharge on top of that, no matter what the surcharge is for. You also have companies that charge a slightly higher price for a ticket, but they have no or much less surcharge. There's got to be that clarity. The advantage for consumers is that they can compare prices. Competition law does not allow agreements to be made on the levying of the surcharge and so on. That is the playing field and in that it is a free market, I say to Mr Monasch. I'm afraid there's nothing I can do about that. By the way, that is not "unfortunate," but that is very good for a lot of travellers. That's why there's competition. You can see that there are often interesting advantages to be gained. That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u5	Finally, Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u6	Is the Minister prepared to include with the Authority Consumer & Market what one can put in such a surcharge? You can't just decide to put staff costs and maintenance costs in a supplement, can you? So what's the price? You're just kidding when you're making the price that way. I want a fair price. If society wants me to pay extra for my suitcase, I know it. Companies should not make a price that is actually not right at all and then put everything in a surcharge. That way you can bottle the place through marketing tricks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u7	I don't think there's a lot of bottles. It must be absolutely clear that you are paying a surcharge. Then as a consumer, you can consider whether you choose the company with a low base rate and a high surcharge or another company that may not pay the supplement. It is essential for consumers to be able to make that choice. In order to enable them to do so, legislation aims to ensure that prices are as transparent as possible. That's what the ACM's testing for. As far as I know, this is not on the content of the surcharges. In the end, that is a matter for the companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr Monasch is going to drive electric in the future and then he can charge his battery for well below €10. Then that problem is out of the world. Mr Monasch rightly said that fuel costs have fallen dramatically. As we all know, there is no VAT and excise duty on that fuel. Isn't this an ideal time to introduce a flight tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u9	We are really using a different route to map and literally charge the environmental costs of air traffic. Perhaps I can say here in your midst that a major breakthrough was made there last night on the issue of meeting the CO standards that aircraft have to use. This is a major step towards a kind of ETS-like system for air traffic worldwide. We have not yet been able to settle this in Paris, but the Netherlands, as President of the Union, is doing everything in its power to create a level playing field on this issue worldwide. I think we are one step further along with that. That's very good news. That is a different route from the one proposed by Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u10	I love it when we can get new planes cleaner on that side. In cars, we've had the effect of being cheated on by life. In cars we also look at the other side. So that's where we approach it from both sides. The Secretary of State mentioned a level playing field; countries around us do have a flight tax. If you ever want to enter it, the moment when fuel costs are very low is ideal. The traveller will not notice and the airlines will have time to get used to it. Again, I will consider, perhaps for another moment, to reconsider the flight tax now that fuel costs are so low.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u11	I have just told Mrs Van Tongeren that we are going for another route. This is a route that not only makes aircraft cleaner and quieter, which is very important, but also puts an ETS pricing system in place worldwide for all countries participating in ICAO. We are now on the verge of major decision-making. I'm optimistic about that. We saw an important first step taken last night. Let us wait and see, but let us also do it globally through that level playing field, because in the end the consumer, which Mr Monasch started with today, is also buying bacon. Otherwise, you're gonna get too big a difference, and I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
