ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u1	Madam President. I have just listened carefully to what Mrs Duthler, in her capacity as Chairman of the Permanent Committee on Security and Justice, said about the procedure followed in the run-up to this week's JHA Council. I note that I regret that there has been irritation in this Chamber about the way things are going. The file of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is certainly not an ordinary file, quite the contrary. On the contrary, it is extremely complicated. This is demonstrated by the fact that the consultation on the regulation started in Brussels in 2013 and continues until today, but this has also been demonstrated in The Hague. Both Chambers of States-General wrote a letter to the Commissioner responsible in 2013 in the context of the subsidiarity test and came to a negative opinion. This contributed to the yellow card. After that, regular written and oral consultations with both chambers were held on the conduct of negotiations on the European Public Prosecutor's Office and on the related subject of the fight against fraud. We are now in the final phase of the consultation in Brussels. I do not say 'final stage' anymore, because after my last letter to this Chamber and to this day it is very uncertain, as has been shown this afternoon, whether the Presidency will be able to reach a final compromise on the regulation. I do not expect the final result of the European Public Prosecutor's Office to be voted on this week. Nor do I expect general agreement to be reached on the so-called PIF Directive, although I do not exclude that the latter might still be possible. I will not therefore ask the Chamber to give an opinion on what is now on the table, for precisely the reason that a number of Members, including Mrs Duthler, have put forward, namely that at the moment it is not 100% certain that the current end result will also be the final result.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u2	It is clear that the Minister does not need our consent and that he does not ask us if we are giving our opinion on it. However, we have just heard the contributions of all the groups and I can see that a majority is positive in relation to the EPPO. Suppose a majority of the Chamber makes a clear statement about it. Would that not strengthen the position of the Minister in Brussels or of the House of Representatives in one way or another?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u3	If there were to be a vote, I would involve the judgment of the First Chamber in the final balance. I would like to go into that in more detail. How did the situation arise that there is once again a ruling from the House of Representatives? As is well known, the House of Representatives has in the past already expressed a majority opinion on an earlier stand-by position of the proposal. It was clear that in mid-November the Presidency indicated its commitment to a general approach in the December Council. That is why, in accordance with my promise, I described the state of play of the negotiations in my letter of 21 November to the House of Representatives. In this I have expressed the cabinet's position on the EPPO. The First Chamber received a copy of this letter. On 23 November, the Permanent Committee for Security and Justice of the House of Representatives held a general consultation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office. That's what happened. The result is well known. The House of Representatives has not returned to the previous position, despite the government's request to do so. In summary, the members of all the political groups present, except one, made it clear that they were not in favour of the participation of the Netherlands in the EOM. One political group suspended the opinion pending the answer of a number of substantive questions. It became clear from the course of the debate that a very large majority of the House of Representatives still opposed participation by the Netherlands. During the general consultation I have therefore indicated that, when it comes to decision-making in the Council, I will comply with this opinion of the House of Representatives. I should have indicated that I would still consult with the First Chamber and that I would also take the judgment of the First Chamber into account. After I found out that the First Chamber wished to receive a separate letter from the Cabinet with the cabinet position, I sent it on 25 November. I thought I would be well advised to do so by also reporting the outcome of the consultations held in the House of Representatives on 23 November. I can tell that this addition has given the impression that the final judgment of the Supreme Court would no longer be relevant. That is not the case. I have indicated that there is a political fact because of the consistent position of the majority of the House of Representatives. I would like to make it quite clear that it is also clear to me that this is without prejudice to the fact that the cabinet will also take account of the views of the First Chamber in this matter. So I will not ask for that position today, because I expect that there will not be a vote on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, but that I can and will take into account the feelings of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u4	Could the new development that is emerging have an impact on the appreciation of the Minister for the ruling in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u5	At the time when we had the debate with the House of Representatives, there was a document on the table that seemed to be skinned but one. Of this, the Slovak Presidency had also indicated that it could put it to the vote at the JHA Council this week. This does not seem to be the case. In fact, it seems that the PIF directive will not be able to be voted on until the spring of next year. I do not know if all the Member States agree with me, but I myself think that you can only vote on the EM if you know what the competence of the EM is, as Mr Schrijver has described so well. In principle, therefore, you should be able to put the PIF Directive and the EOM proposal together in order to finally say yes or no to it. I therefore accept that both Chambers should be asked again for their judgement on the basis of the final result.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u6	That is clear; thank you for that. In view of the latest developments, the Minister feels free to ask both Chambers again what they are going to do with the EPPO, regardless of what was the position of the House of Representatives until today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u7	The cabinet position, so what we consider to be important, is clear. I estimate that there will be no change on the basis of the latest state of affairs. I do not exclude it, but I do not expect that there will be such a change that the cabinet position will go from positive to negative. The cabinet position remains, as far as I am concerned, the cabinet position, unless there are very special circumstances, which could be there in theory. You never really know that in Europe with these kinds of negotiations. It also depends on the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u8	If I understand the Minister correctly, it is not that I want to play it high, but for the sake of clarity, this means that the position that the House of Representatives initially gave and that the Minister has provided an opinion, under the circumstances now emerging, is no longer politically relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u9	It is up to the Chamber to judge whether it is politically relevant...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u10	But I mean that it no longer has the meaning for the Minister as it initially appeared.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u11	I think it is good to ask the House of Representatives again for a similar opinion on the basis of the total result. I do not know if that will alter the majority of the House of Representatives, but we will see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u12	I appreciate the fact that the Minister here reiterates that the cabinet position as it stood in the letter of 25 November will not change to a negative position, so the cabinet remains of the opinion that it is not in the interests of the Netherlands if we do not participate. I do not want to play the person at all today, but, if we have weeks to go, I would very much like to see the Minister working to convey that position to others. If we talk about this again on this side and on the other side, perhaps in January, I would like the Minister with the latest insights and information to say: 'Dear people on this side of the Binnenhof', is it not wise for us to support this together?'
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u13	That goes without saying, because that is the cabinet position. Can I therefore immediately invite Mr Rombouts to do the salutary work with me when it comes to his group on the other side?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u14	I did that half an hour ago, Minister. But now you!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u15	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has, in no uncertain terms, voted extremely negative against the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I'd like to discuss two more things with the Chamber. I'd like to stop by and see what's been going on lately. In general, I would like to say a few things about the state of play, the position paper and the final result, and then answer the individual questions. Let me say first of all that the proposal for the European Public Prosecutor's Office was also designed in a special way in the parliamentary process. There was not much experience with a rapporteur on the other side. I recall that the rapporteur also had an extensive exchange of views with the First Chamber. Unlike Mrs Duthler's suggestion, there was never a decision of the First Chamber that the rapporteur also acted on behalf of the First Chamber. He would have liked that, by the way, I know from a reliable source. It was very different between the parties on both sides of the Binnenhof, but also the First Chamber certainly insisted that an attempt was made to amend the original proposal on a number of points. In addition, I remember that both Chambers were very critical of the European Commission's response to the yellow card, which I paraphrase even though it was actually only a little off the table if it was irrelevant or less relevant. At the time, the Commission reacted quite clearly to this. The same applies to the new Commission. Mr Timmermans has played an important role in this. It was stated at the time that this would not happen again. If parliaments draw a yellow card with such a large majority, the Commission must take this seriously. I am very pleased that the Commission has returned to this point. The cabinet has chosen the position paper of the Lower House, with the support of a part of this Chamber, as the starting point for the negotiations. This has led to a large number of structural changes in the proposal as it stands. On a number of points, it has also become very clear why the European Public Prosecutor's Office is being changed in the various Member States. I will be speaking in a moment about the individual questions on this subject, but Mrs Strik asked about the democratic control of the EPPO. Exactly that issue was one of the jumping issues in the position paper. One wondered whether it was useful to have an organization that is not under the direct democratic control of the Dutch Parliament. They also wondered what the role of the minister would be if he had to answer to the parliament about decisions taken by such an EOM. I shall come back to this in more detail, but this made it clear that, from the Dutch point of view, we attach great importance to a form of democratic control. We've arranged that neatly for our own D.A.'s office. The Minister then consults with them, but in the worst case he may give instructions, which will then be sent immediately to Parliament. In the meantime, however, it has become clear that many other Member States have made a completely different choice, namely the choice of a rather outside-Ministerial responsibility for Italy is an example of this, but the same applies to almost all former Eastern bloc countries, because of their past experience with government-controlled public ministries. The particular thing is that, in the negotiations, where the Netherlands was very committed to forms of democratic control, from our tradition, at the same time, it appeared that in many other Member States it is unthinkable that some form of control could take place in any way. This shows how different Member States are thinking about and looking at the positioning of an EM. If you accept that the Public Prosecutor's Office in your Member State has an autonomous position vis-à-vis your government, you also accept much more easily that there will be an EOM because this will not change what you are used to in your own Member State. However, this is not the case in the Dutch situation. That is where the discussion takes place because we have a different tradition. As a result, when a large number of parliaments, nineteen in total, drew a yellow card, it appeared quite quickly that there was no objection in principle, but above all a structural objection. It was considered that the hierarchical structure proposed by the Commission was too far-reaching for one chief prosecutor who was in charge and who directed the national public prosecutors. Once a collegial model was chosen, in which all Member States would have their own representative in the permanent meeting of delegated prosecutors, all objections from those Member States had disappeared. There were only a few Member States at the time that were very critical of the rest of the proposal. This means that at present an overwhelming majority of Member States intend to agree to a form of an EPPO. For the same reason, many Member States believe that tackling VAT fraud, which is still under discussion today, should be part of that competence. This also means that if the Netherlands and other Member States finally indicated that they did not agree to the regulation, the other Member States would automatically be able to opt for enhanced cooperation. We, as President, have very good experiences with this, I say to Mrs Strik. I am thinking of the matrimonial property right that we were able to regulate very quickly and efficiently through enhanced cooperation. I assume that if this were to be voted on and the Member States voted against, in the form of enhanced cooperation, it would also be possible to work towards the EPPO, albeit a further step will have to be taken in the framework of the Convention. Then the European Council must also negotiate it. He must therefore make a unanimous judgement on this matter. I also informed this Chamber about this in the letter. With regard to the PIF Directive, the European Parliament has indicated that it will no longer be able to accept it before the end of the year. This means, according to our current assessment, that there will also be no agreement on the EPPO. That is why the Slovak Presidency has indicated that in the coming days there will be no vote on the EPPO. However, we have to bear in mind that the EPPO will be there in some form. The final weighing of the Dutch government whether or not we are going to join the EOM should therefore be seen in the light of the possibility that it will come. The Dutch prosecutor has also put forward quite a few ifs and buts. Nor can you see the letter on this as a cheerful support of the EPPO, but, for pragmatic reasons, it is preferable to participate in the EPPO, for the simple reason that, if the EPPO is to carry out activities in the Member States, it is better to be part of it than to be on the receiving side of the EPPO. I have indicated in the House of Representatives, and I say it here too, also in the direction of those Members who are against an EOM on fundamental grounds, that it is a balance between the dogmatic and principled side of the proposal and the pragmatic side of the proposal. Those two things are very difficult to unite. I can very well imagine that some Members in this Chamber are opposed in principle. We must then accept the practical consequences of this. I can also imagine that there are Members who are not so enthusiastic, or very enthusiastic, but who think that the practical consequences are an additional reason for making a different choice. Some Members of Parliament will say: we are enthusiastic in principle, but in practical terms it is also convenient for us, so that is fine. At the same time, taking into account the position paper, not all the issues raised in this paper by the rapporteur at the time, with the support of a majority of the Chamber, have been included in the proposal. This means that consideration of whether or not one is in favour of participation can ultimately be made in both chambers. It has rightly been said that costs do not make the difference. One could argue that, if the EPPO is there and is paid out of Europe's general resources, this is an advantage, because then we do not have to do it ourselves. That's true, but on the other hand, no matter how you turn or turn it, even if you don't participate, you'll still have to work with the EPPO. So you will have to incur costs to execute any compelling legal aid requests from the EPPO. I will come back to the questions about that. We've asked the D.A. what he thinks, considering everything. The D.A. has indicated, referring to this morning's letter and explanatory statement, that there are comments to be made, but that it would rather or rather not participate. That is a general point. I now come to the individual questions. First of all, I come to the question of the state of play of the PIF directive. Negotiations are ongoing at the moment. There is still no clear majority among Member States on the inclusion of VAT fraud in that Directive. I assume that agreement will be reached, probably in line with the 10 million that the Netherlands has proposed as a compromise. It was very doubtful whether the European Parliament could agree to this, but it seems that this has happened in the meantime. The threshold is a crucial part of the compromise. This does make it clear what the possible consequences of the PIF Directive for the European Public Prosecutor's Office are. Mrs Duthler also asked about the relationship between the PIF Directive and the EPPO. In itself, those are two separate files. The legal basis for the EPPO Regulation is Article 86 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. If there is no unanimity among the Member States, there is the possibility of enhanced cooperation. The European Parliament has the right to vote. On the other hand, the legal basis for the PIF Directive is Article 83 (2) of the Convention. A ordinary legislative procedure is foreseen for this purpose. This means that there is codecision, including with regard to the European Parliament. The PIF Directive defines offences for which the EPPO should be competent. This concerns, in particular, fraud involving EU subsidies, corruption by EU officials and, where appropriate, VAT fraud. In the view of the Netherlands, there will first have to be agreement on the PIF Directive in order to clarify the competence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Tomorrow, this will be discussed again in Coreper to look at the field of VAT fraud. It is an annoyance, and I can see that changes are taking place in your Chamber, on the other side, and I can also see that changes are taking place in this kind of negotiation process until the day before the JHA Council begins. That also makes it so complicated to discuss such a proposal with the House of Representatives in good time, because you are actually talking by definition about a proposal that is not yet 100% complete. I share that annoyance and I understand. I myself, as a Member of Parliament, have often complained about it, I say in all honesty. I can see the dynamics of such a presidency. We ourselves have been guilty of it, and for good reasons, I can say. The matrimonial property right was an example of that. On the last day of our presidency, on 30 June, we fought for it, I remember. That is what we have done to make it a success in the interests of all of us. The other side of the coin is that at that time we had to ask the Chambers for tacit agreement, otherwise we would not be able to initiate the procedure. We are doing our utmost to prevent this, but the pressure is also high. The Slovak Presidency is keen to achieve results, and this leads to negotiations until the last day. Wherever else we can do it, we do it. But I do see why it works the way it does. Then I come to the mandate that Mrs Duthler, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Sietsma have put forward. They asked: can the European Public Prosecutor's Office be extended to include a wider mandate? The aim is to set up the European Public Prosecutor's Office to combat EU fraud. There is no support for a broader mandate than the fight against EU fraud within the Member States. The possibility offered by Article 86, paragraph 4, of the Convention to make the EPPO competent for offences other than EU fraud, I now consider to be purely theoretical. I note that there is a second aspect, namely that the extension of the mandate requires unanimity from the Council, including the non-participating Member States, except the United Kingdom, Ireland and Denmark. Those countries are excluded. Even if we do not participate, the Netherlands will take part in the decision on a possible extension of the powers of the European Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u16	I understand that there is currently no proposal to extend the powers of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and that it is currently a theoretical possibility. How does the Minister estimate that powers might be extended in the future? It is one of the arguments we have heard earlier this afternoon: let us not do it, because now we are taking a small step, but it will turn out to be a very big step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u17	This can only be done if the Netherlands agrees. It's as simple as that. Even if we do not participate, we have the right to vote under the Treaty. If we stick together, nothing will happen at that point. I would like to say in all honesty that, for several reasons, especially in the Eastern European countries that are in need. I think for financial reasons and for capacity reasons. There, people say structurally: wouldn't it be useful, for example, to bring terrorism under the EM? What you think, you can think of it, as long as the Netherlands votes no, that will not be the case. Then I come to the issue of democratic control. Mrs Duthler and Mrs Strik asked for that. That was one of the jumping points in the position paper. The original idea was that the European Public Prosecutor's Office should be a European body. On the one hand, it is independent, but on the other hand, primary responsibility for criminal action is given to the judge. The organisation itself should be accountable to the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission for its overall functioning. This is covered by Article 6 of the proposal. To this end, the European Public Prosecutor's Office will draw up an annual report on its functioning. That is a public report, which is sent to the European Parliament and to the national parliaments. The latter is an addition which has been included at the request of the Netherlands. You will find them in Article 6a. The Chief Prosecutor appears once a year in the European Parliament and in the Council and can therefore be addressed to the general functioning. National Parliaments may express their views on the EPPO through the national member of the Council. As a minister in the JHA Council on behalf of the Netherlands, I can address the impact of the actions of the EPPO on our national priorities and the capacity commitment to them. National Parliaments may invite the Chief Prosecutor in their own parliament to hear him or her in general functioning of the EPPO. That is also an addition at the request of the Netherlands. The prosecutor can therefore be invited by a national parliament to answer for the general functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. That's how it's done. Is that ideal? No. Does it answer to what the position paper wanted? Nor, that is, not entirely. But it's better than it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u18	I would like to understand the Minister. Does this mean that a prosecutor in his capacity as a European Delegated Prosecutor can both be held accountable by... I see the Minister shaking no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u19	No. In the capacity of Delegated Prosecutor, he will only be held accountable in the context of the EPPO, not by the national parliament and not by the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u20	To be held accountable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u21	Not individually. The EPPO shall be accountable to the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. Those are the three formal Gremia. Therefore, if there were any objections in the Netherlands to the way in which the EPPO operates, it could be brought directly to the attention of national Parliaments by the Chief Prosecutor or his deputy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u22	At least it's never the Minister of Security and Justice again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u23	No. That is one of the points that the critics say: then we will give up our powers, but also a part of our democratic control of investigations that take place on Dutch territory, on which you will not be able to appeal to the Minister. Mrs Duthler, but also Mr Ten Hoeve, Mrs Wezel and spokesmen from other political groups asked about the division of powers between the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the National Public Prosecutor's Office, and in particular about the right of priority. Let me say first of all that the National Public Prosecutor's Office can act autonomously in the event of suspicion of EU fraud. The National Public Prosecutor's Office will inform the EPPO if the case falls within the competence of the EPPO, assuming that we participate in it. The EPPO must then decide whether it wishes to make use of its right of evocation. That should be done within five days. That's really fast. If the EPPO does not address the case, the national prosecutor shall remain competent. If the EPPO withdraws the case, the case will be transferred. That's how it's organized. If we do not participate, there will be no right of evocation. That goes without saying. In that context, Mrs Strik asked whether there was no risk of forum shopping, in order to circumvent strict procedural safeguards in certain Member States. The nice thing is that this discussion was also held when we discussed this proposal in advance, but in fact the other way around. Because we are fast and efficient with our case law and our Public Prosecutor's Office, there was a fear that the Netherlands would be used as a "preferred supplier" of the EOM. That would require a lot of capacity from the Dutch courts. There could be that chance in theory, but then you ignore the fact that criminal investigations are always linked to the facts and circumstances and that the possibility of moving a prosecution into criminal law is much smaller than in civil law. An important obstacle to this is that the possibility of a conviction is reduced by the fact that the transfer of a criminal record carries the risk that the evidence already collected cannot be used or can only be used with difficulty. However, the EPPO requires that the evidence collected in one Member State can also be used successfully in the other Member State. This means that, in many cases, we are not very concerned about this in ourselves, but it is not entirely excluded that this could happen if that opportunity arises. If we were to participate, we could possibly be more addressed in the Netherlands, for reasons other than perhaps Mrs Strik's, because our OM and our Dutch judges are known for their relatively fast working methods. Mr Schrijver and Mrs Duthler asked for cooperation between the European Public Prosecutor's Office and Eurojust, as well as cooperation with OLAF. It goes without saying that the European Public Prosecutor's Office and Eurojust should cooperate wherever possible. The regulation provides the basis for this. The relevant provision enables both organisations to implement this cooperation in practice. I think that's very sensible, too. I have always said that I think it is very important that the establishment and action of the EPPO should not be at the expense of Eurojust's ability to act. Eurojust has a different role, a different position and a different responsibility. It must be able to fulfil that role and position, including for the benefit of non-participating Member States. This means that I will also be critical to the forthcoming JHA Council of Ministers of all attempts to adapt Eurojust's position and, perhaps, Eurojust's human resources for the purposes of the EPPO. That discussion will be held. So there's definitely a risk in that. OLAF shall retain its role in the field of non-criminal investigations following the establishment of the EPPO. The draft regulation also contains a specific provision for this relationship. It is obvious that the OLAF Regulation, which will be reviewed in 2017, will also be amended once the EPPO Regulation is in place. The Netherlands considers and continues to promote that both Eurojust and OLAF should not be adversely affected by the establishment of an EPPO. Whether or not we participate is irrelevant; Eurojust should simply continue to be able to do its job properly. Mr Engels asked about the Commission's response to my concerns. I have very recently personally referred these concerns to Mrs Jourová, the Commissioner responsible. In the JHA Council on 14 October, Mrs Jourová, after my speech on this subject, indicated that she would consider it further. That consultation with her follows. I will continue to remind her that the Netherlands would not like Eurojust or OLAF to be restricted in its operation in favour of an EM, especially if there is a chance that we will not participate. Mr Schrijver and Mr Engels asked about legal protection in cases where the EOM prosecuted. There is a simple answer to this: the EPPO continues in the Member States. The Member States will therefore be able to avail themselves of all the possibilities available there. If that is the case in the Netherlands, then the procedural guarantees arising from our national law, including legal protection, such as legal aid and other aspects, are simply applicable. The second element of this question is: what about the ECHR and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights? Mr Schrijver specifically asked about this. As criminal proceedings take place in the national courts, the same reasoning applies as we always have: the national courts take account of the case-law of the European Court of Justice and assess where this is necessary under the ECHR. There are also possibilities to invoke them in national law as we do in normal criminal proceedings. This means that legal protection is guaranteed on the same footing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u24	Thank you for the satisfactory response to this point. Does the Minister think this applies to all Member States? Or is he still concerned because the guarantee of procedural rights in all Member States will not automatically be the same despite the fact that they are all parties to the ECHR?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u25	That is a complicated question which Mr Schrijver, with his title and function, has far more knowledge of than I do. Over the past two or three years, Europe has taken a number of very important steps in this area: the directive on minimum rights for victims, which we have just implemented, the police counsellor and the ongoing discussions on legal aid. There are differences between Member States at the moment. That is why the Netherlands had to bear a much greater financial consequence of the proposal for a counsellor in a police interview than many other Member States that have organised it in a different way. On balance, there is a trend in all Member States that the rights of victims and suspects are organised in the same way, but for the question of whether this is fully harmonised, I do not dare to put my hand in the fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u26	Would the Minister also dare to say that there might be a promotion of constitutional development in those countries where procedural rights are not yet fully guaranteed as we would like to know in the Netherlands? Maybe the Minister's answer can still bring about possible opponents of the EPPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u27	I find that hard to estimate. If the European Public Prosecutor's Office is operable, it will undoubtedly strive to be able to do its work in the same way in all countries. But that will still be quite complicated, especially in the start-up period. So I can't say that one-on-one, but I don't rule out that movement being there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u28	I also asked a question in this connection, namely: does the Minister not think that, with the EPPO and further harmonisation at that level, you should also seek further harmonisation of procedural rights? Maybe he'll come up with that. I know that the European Parliament is also calling for more procedural guarantees to be included even in the regulation. I'd like to hear his opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u29	I am going to give it now; Mr Engels and Mrs Strik asked for it. But at the moment a single Member State is calling for harmonisation of procedural criminal law. That was also one of the points in the position paper: not a single legal area, as it was mentioned in the original Commission proposal. There was no support within the Member States for moving towards some sort of single legal criminal area. For this reason, the draft regulation refers to the measures covered by the so-called Roadmap on procedural safeguards at EU level, but does not take any steps towards harmonisation of procedural criminal law. Many Member States say that this is an achievement and a tradition from our own country; we do not believe that Europe should play a harmonising role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u30	Am I to understand that the Minister says the following? The one OM, which will be there in the near future and which will be given the tasks now set out in the documents, is a clear approach to the issue of fraud at EU level in Europe. The prosecution will take place centrally and in a coordinated manner, but the way in which the trial takes place remains entirely differentiated according to the existing systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u31	Yes, but so is the prosecution, because the prosecution and trial take place in accordance with national law. So the prosecution takes place in accordance with the Dutch rules, which we assign in our Code of Criminal Procedure to the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office. The only difference is that the direction is not by the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office but by the European Public Prosecutor's Office, assuming that we would participate. If we do not participate, the European Public Prosecutor's Office will cooperate with the public prosecutors of the non-participating Member States through an agreed instrument. We expect that to go along the lines of the European Investigation Order and the European Arrest Warrant. And then again, the same applies. Then the prosecution and trial will be national.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u32	This may mean that the first term of the prosecution will be coordinated according to the rules of the game, but that the outcome of the proceedings will then take place in a very multicolored manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u33	Yes. That is the consequence of the commitment of, in particular, the Netherlands. Indeed, a fair majority in both Chambers felt it very undesirable for a harmonised European prosecution vehicle to arise, which completely evades matters such as the Dutch tradition, the Dutch parliamentary control and the Dutch ministerial responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u34	So you can say that an attempt is being made at European level to achieve further harmonisation, but that effort is limited to the detection, which is jointly directed, and what happens afterwards, we have to wait and see. Am I saying that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u35	Then what we're used to happens. Everyone in their own country will see prosecutions being brought against parties by their own national public prosecutors, with the direction of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. That's right. Mr Engels wondered how the cabinet came to the conclusion that it is not in the interest of the Netherlands not to be a participant in the EOM. In fact, the letter speaks very clearly about this. All things considered, the cabinet sees that the points in the position paper are not fully fulfilled and that it doesn't make much difference in terms of cost. We also think that this is an important point to mention, to say the least, that the European Commission's cost-benefit analysis is very positive. Our experience in the Netherlands is that every euro you invest in, for example, the taking away, does not come back by a factor of a thousand. However, that is about what the Commission is proposing. A factor of one hundred, I believe, but we do not see that in our system. So I have also informed the European Commission that I find this analysis very rosy. Moreover, I do not rule out the fact that the cost-benefit analysis will be positive on balance. Not as positive as thought, but positive. The same applies to the other considerations. The basic choice is that between participating, or on the receiving side through an instrument to be developed are forced to cooperate with the EPPO. The question is, isn't it better to participate, as the D.A. says? That is actually the government's primary consideration, and I admit immediately to all critics that it is more pragmatic than ideological or dogmatic. That also answers the question put by Mr Engels, namely whether I agree with that statement by the Public Prosecutor. Yeah, I agree. I see that the prosecution itself has a lot of objections and concerns about the capacity attachment that this will have in both cases, but at the same time, for practical reasons, the prosecution makes the final weighing-up to participate and discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u36	Mr Sietsma's question was settled for a moment. He concluded that it was actually about the investigative part of the investigation, where the prosecution then took place in the countries at national level. Do the countries of Europe have the capacity to carry out these investigations? Any word on that? Does the Minister know anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u37	In principle, this capacity exists and every Member State must already detect, prosecute and prosecute European fraud. There's no discussion about that. However, one of the underlying issues of this proposal is that it is often very complex cross-border cases that need to be flown at international and multinational level. It is said that this is not enough and that it is therefore good to have a central European organisation that can take this up and tackle it. That's the argument. We do not know how the EOM is going to develop, and that is reason for the D.A. to want to talk with us, because then we have it better in view than when we are only on the receiving side. However, in principle, each Member State must provide the capacity needed to facilitate the work of the EPPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u38	I just got off the phone with the D.A.'s office, who'd like to watch because it wants that start-up information. That gives the prosecution input for the investigations, and that also means that it doesn't just get those things on its plate and then has to work on it cold. However, my fear is that Eastern European countries and southern countries do not seem to be able to carry out these large, complex investigations. The prosecutors sitting in Brussels can tell us what they want the investigators to do, but if they have not been equipped to do so, nothing will be done. I understand that these countries want these investigations to be carried out, but it seems to them that they do not realise that there is something to be done. I have not yet seen any information on this matter from the Minister. Maybe he knows something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u39	Of course, the Minister is not about other Member States. Perhaps Mrs Wezel did not realize this, but this was precisely the point why the original proposal was that there would be one central European Public Prosecutor's Office that would simply tackle this whole issue in its entirety. So Mrs Wezel's comment could actually be translated into a plea for the original proposal, namely a European Public Prosecutor's Office, which is competent, vision and priority of the Member States and has the capacity to simply detect, prosecute and bring to justice directly and centrally. This choice was not made by the Netherlands and other Member States. We do not believe that such a central institute should be set up. We believe that the influence of the national public ministries should be as great as possible and that prosecution and trial should take place in the country where the problem takes place. So we do not want a Bulgarian prosecutor who is in Amsterdam arguing that someone should be convicted, but just a Dutch officer before the Dutch judge. That's the choice we made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u40	Mrs Wezel, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u41	This is my last question. The Minister knows how it works in the Netherlands. The D.A. doesn't have an investigative capability. Neither does the EOM, nor did the original model have any detection capacity. The whole problem with this idea from the EOM is that it doesn't have any detection capacity. Can the Minister say anything about this point? There is nothing yet about the detection capacity and not about the quality requirements of that detection capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u42	The scheme is: if the Netherlands participates in this, our country will cooperate with the EOM in the framework of the EOM. In addition, we have our own delegate prosecutor. It directs the prosecution and detection in the Netherlands in the way we are used to, with the capacity available. For the record, I pay just over half a billion dollars a year to the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office and there will be capacity for that. It's not nothing, what people do for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u43	Mrs Wezel, I see you at the microphone, but unfortunately, this was your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u44	Mr Schrijver and Mrs Duthler asked whether, on top of the points mentioned in the letter, I could indicate the adverse effects of non-participation. This has already been discussed in the debate. We will not then be able to send you the choices made in the EOM. We have no influence on the development and policy of the EPPO. The Netherlands remains dependent on traditional instruments for cooperation in cross-border cases. We cannot benefit from the arrangement provided for in the EPPO. It will therefore be less easy to deal with cross-border cases. It is not excluded that the Netherlands can therefore rejoice in the special attention of the EPPO. There may be a waterbed effect. It goes without saying that, if the Netherlands does not participate, Parliament's recent call to ensure that Eurojust and EPPO are located close to each other cannot be followed. Mr Sietsma asked whether the EM's action as an additional actor did not complicate the fight against fraud. I have carefully stated in the letter that it is expected that the EPPO will be more effective than the traditional forms of cooperation we now have. I can imagine. I also think it will take some time for this organisation to be set up, for people to know what to do and for everyone to get to work. At the same time, however, I think that if you look at the instruments agreed under the EPPO, which are more efficient than the traditional way of working together so far between the OMs of individual Member States. Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Duthler asked whether this would not allow fraud to shift to the Netherlands. I'm not ruling that out entirely. As a gateway to Europe, we are vulnerable to fraud. Furthermore, it is not excluded that the Netherlands is seen by criminals as a country that does not participate in the EPPO and is therefore perhaps less likely to tackle EU fraud. But we could be now, too, when that is not the image we have. Mr Markuszower asked what would happen if the Netherlands voted against the EOM and what the next steps would be. I will keep him informed when those steps are taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u45	I asked for more. Why is the Minister so sure that EOM is going to be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u46	I explained this: because an overwhelming majority of Member States are strongly in favour of the EPPO. At the moment, in addition to the three Member States which, by definition, are not participating, there are possibly four Member States that are considering voting against the proposal. How that's going to develop, I don't know. One of them is the Netherlands. Seven Member States could therefore not participate. All the other Member States are strongly in favour and would like to participate. So there's always gonna be an EOM, whether we want it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u47	I could read that line of thought. But we have to vote first. If there is no unanimity, at least nine countries must unite and indicate that they want it. That step hasn't been taken yet. The Minister therefore preaches to a situation that does not yet exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u48	Yes, I've described it exactly in the letter. Now, at some point, there is a decision on the EPPO, which requires unanimity in the Council. If there is no unanimity, all kinds of steps are possible. In the letter we have outlined how things are going, albeit with the expectation that at the end of the day the EPPO will be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u49	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u50	That is an expectation, but not a 100% guarantee. I understand that the Minister will be meeting in the JHA Council next Thursday. But what or how will Prime Minister Rutte vote on this in the Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u51	Nothing is expected, because this will not be voted on in the next Council. What the Prime Minister will then do on behalf of the cabinet in the future is the subject of debate with Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u52	The Minister will keep us informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u53	An AO shall be held for each Council, and this Chamber may also request it to do so. There are not often things in Europe about which I dare to make bets with Mr Markuszower, but I dare to do so about the fact that the EPPO is going to be there. I don't know when, but it'll get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u54	Mr Schrijver has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u55	Didn't we edit up the minister in the course of this day? I thought the first half of his speech showed that. But now he said that there might still be a group of four countries that are going to vote against it. Shouldn't that be a group of three countries? Earlier, the Minister said that he does not want to say that he is going to vote against. Or was it a slip? That would help, and I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u56	There are four countries that are considering it as carefully as I have said it to possibly vote against, because their parliaments are extremely critical of this proposal. How that will ultimately relate, we will indeed have to see. But we also indicated in the letter that a very small part is still critical. The vast majority have already indicated their wholehearted support for this proposal. In the meantime, unlike the Netherlands, they have simply agreed to all the intermediate steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u57	Unlike Mr Schrijver, I was very pleased with the comments made by the Minister, namely that he is counting the Netherlands among the countries that will vote against. It's not getting any clearer for me. The Minister is not asking for a ruling from this Chamber, but he has made it quite clear that he wants to go in full with the cabinet position, for which he wants to obtain support from other Member States. But what does he do with the ruling of a majority of the two chambers: in this form we do not want to participate in the EPPO?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u58	This is precisely what I said at the beginning: the proposal is still mobile and volatile, or rather rather volatile. I really don't know where it's going right now. As always, I will keep both chambers informed of developments. If we foresee a vote, we will announce it. Then, like last time, we will once again ask for an opinion from both Chambers on the final result, in the hope that that will also be the end result.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u59	To what extent is it conceivable that next Thursday you will have to say something about possible participation in such an EOM?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u60	Not because there's no vote. Furthermore, I will stick to what I have always said, namely that there is a great deal of criticism in our parliaments of the proposal. We have consistently stated that we do not agree with intermediate results, even in consultation with this Chamber, in order simply to be able to judge the total at the end of the day. This is without prejudice to the fact that the House of Representatives has already tabled a motion on its content just before the summer recess: you may not agree, regardless of any further developments. The sentiment of the Chamber has not changed. But if there is reason to do so, I will ask the Chambers to give a ruling. I must ask the House of Representatives once again whether it is prepared to reconsider its position. Mrs Strik asked if I, as President, felt that I had achieved enough. In general terms, as President, we have achieved a great deal in many areas. Here too, we have behaved as a honest broker. For that we have been given the space of both Chambers, for which we are very grateful. If you are President, your own assessment of a proposal must not be taken into account in the speed with which it is dealt with, especially if such a vast majority of Member States consider it very important that progress is made. I think we've been able to negotiate about 60 articles out of my head. We have done so in a very respectful and honest way. I also know that this is highly appreciated. It has also surprised many people, given the critical attitude of the Netherlands in a majority, that we have been so committed to helping this progress. That brings me to the end of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u61	Then we have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u62	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions and explaining the procedure followed. We understand that the Minister does not have to take a position on Thursday. This also leaves room for my group to discuss fully the pros and cons of this proposal for a European Public Prosecutor's Office. My group will certainly include them in the further weighting of this proposal. My group believes that fraud involving EU funds should be tackled as effectively as possible. The EPPO offers the opportunity to prosecute fraud, especially in those countries where the national authorities are not acting now: the EPPO as a stick behind the door. My group needs to get a little more insight into that stick behind the door. The Minister will certainly be able to explain that very well again. What exactly is the competence of the EPPO vis-à-vis those Member States that do not participate in enhanced cooperation? It is clear that if we do not participate in this enhanced cooperation, or at least in the EPPO, then the European arrest and prosecution orders are simply followed. Persecution and trial will then take place in accordance with national law. What exactly is the role of the European Public Prosecutor's Office? Can the Minister give us a very clear answer? The search takes place in a coordinated manner, but how are the countries not participating in the competence of the EPPO? Then I come to the issue of the transfer of sovereignty. I'm looking at Mr. English. I'm just gonna use that word anyway, because we'll know what we're talking about. I can see the prickly finger. As far as political accountability is concerned, the Minister has already indicated that the Minister for Security and Justice can no longer be held accountable. Does my group understand the proposal that there should be no further transfer of powers, other than that the European Public Prosecutor's Office should be given an incentive power? Doesn't it have exclusive jurisdiction? Is that right? No. I see the Minister nodding. I'm sure you'll explain that to me in a moment. How far does the transfer of powers actually go? The Minister also indicated that, if we do not participate, it will be less easy to tackle cross-border crime. There may be a waterbed effect. The Minister spoke those sentences very quickly. I wonder how the Minister weighs these potentially negative effects. And what are the chances that such a waterbed effect will actually occur? The Minister has already indicated that the European Public Prosecutor's Office will be there, whatever this Chamber will eventually take as its position. Well, we'd better get in on it. That is something that my group has well remembered. My group will be weighing up all the pros and cons. Clear, clear answers to my group's questions would help greatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u63	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I also appreciate that he has apologized so fervently for the fact that he did not initially pay full attention to the view of the First Chamber that it deserves. I think we are having a good debate on this important issue. Mrs Duthler rightly pointed out that the fight against fraud, including the fight against fraud in relation to EU funds, is incredibly important. If I may address the subject of sovereignty very briefly: you also exercise your sovereignty as a state in a responsible way when you are going to share certain powers with others and perhaps even partly transfer them, in order to ensure that the rule of law is therefore starting to become stronger at national and international level. I therefore believe it is important that Central European and Southern European countries state that they need assistance in strengthening their investigative and prosecution capacities. It is not the case, as Mrs Wezel suggested, that a European Public Prosecutor provides guidance. No; we also heard in the briefing this morning and read in the documents that it is a delegated prosecutor who is being added to the national public ministries. He is going to sit with their own courts and not give instructions from Brussels with a stick. I am glad that we have been able to see that the Minister has now started to speak a little more passionately and even passionately on the subject. The last cabinet letter actually said that he was rather like a rabbit for the headlights of the House of Representatives. It's like, "I can't help myself. I've been pulling this tug. I can see the minister walking along the Leidsevaart. But now he's on his way with that tractor barge, the House of Representatives jumps off his tractor barge and jumps into the Leidsevaart. I was thinking: it is so beautiful on its way to the North Sea, or on its way to Brussels, to say that the Netherlands is going to take a positive basic attitude. Can he confirm that he feels a little more of a positive attitude on this subject and that he is also prepared to carry it out? That is precisely what I am saying because he has explained so well the possible adverse effects for the Netherlands if we do not participate. He had a very convincing list. I'm not gonna repeat that. That sounds a little more active than saying that on balance it might be better for the Netherlands to vote in favour. I am asking this in the spirit of today and also in the light of the great interests at stake for the city of The Hague. The Minister has not said too much about this, but they are clear. It is a question of maintaining cooperation with Eurojust and Eurojust, but perhaps it is also a question of trying to obtain the establishment of the EPPO alongside Eurojust in The Hague. I can imagine that it would help the Minister if we set our position on this in a motion. I can't wait to see how he's gonna react to that. Maybe we can talk about that in peace next week. I shall give the text of the motion to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u64	Next week there will be no further discussion of the motion. The motion will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u65	Thank you for the correction, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u66	There is no vote, I understand, because that is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u67	I shall now submit the motion. The President shall: Mr Schrijver, Mr Strike, Mr Beuving, Mr Sent, Mr Verheijen, Mr Sini and Mr Nooren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the urgent need for European cooperation in investigating, prosecuting and prosecuting fraud involving EU funds;]] [[Whereas it is also necessary to take account of a good balance between national and Community competences;]] [[calls on the Government, in principle, to give a positive opinion in the forthcoming JHA Councils on the present proposal of the Slovak EU Presidency on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33709-X]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u68	Mr. Chairman. The slight shudder I initially voiced in anticipation of the Minister's reply has been a little premature. I'll have to tell the Minister by now. I hope that got in too, because he's already looking at his phone. I admit that I have heard all kinds of things with which at least the shudder has disappeared completely. He could put the minister in his pocket. I've written down a few things. There will be no final compromise in the JHA Council next Thursday. So it is unlikely that there will be a vote either. The European Council has not yet negotiated the content of the so-called PIF Directive. So the Minister is not asking for a ruling from the Chamber. I can understand that, too. I have also understood that, as a result of this development, the opinion of the House of Representatives has so far been changed. I have also noted that the cabinet is still in a positive position towards the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In my view, therefore, the conclusion is that the matter is open for the time being. This means that at the moment my group does not need to give its own opinion as the First Chamber, especially since the Minister is not asking for it. It is important that we do not send out all kinds of signals for further development in the direction of decision-making on the EPPO which may be less conducive to that process than we want. What are we going to do now? I call for the suspension of judgment, at least in this Chamber, until there is clarity on the content of the PIF Directive and until there is clarity on a final proposal that the new Presidency will send to the JHA Council. Then, through the Prime Minister, the government should again inform the two Chambers of the States-General by letter of what exactly is ahead and what we should judge. In that case, both Chambers could once again give a final opinion on the exact design of the EPPO and the exact content of the PIF Directive. This route could eventually lead to decision-making in the JHA Council. Without wishing to make a motion on this point, I would ask the Minister if he agrees with this route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u69	I listen handcuffed to Mr Engels, who needs a lot of words to say: let's postpone everything. Am I completely wrong when I say that in the first term he was very much in favour of a positive basic attitude? Am I wrong, then, that the Minister says that EOM is going to be there without further ado and that it is still a matter of certain modalities? I admit to Mr Engels that these are not small things, but is he in principle for or against? Does he consider it possible that his group will still declare itself an opponent of the establishment of the EPPO? Mr Engels is creating a lot of fog around his own point of view. I'd like to give him the opportunity to raise that fog immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u70	I note from the reactions of other groups that there is no fog at all. As far as Mr Schrijver is concerned, I would like to take it away. There is no misunderstanding about my group's position. I already reported that this afternoon. My group is on the verge of getting the EPPO there. I have also mentioned the arguments for this; I am not going to repeat them. I don't think that position is going to change. I have now asked for the route regarding the position of the Upper Chamber as a whole, not so much from our group. Because it's clear. I think it is important that we finally reach a position leading to the establishment and establishment of an EPPO. That is a strategic consideration. Now that the Minister has not been forced to take a stand, I see that a different light is being shed on the 'neet' of the House of Representatives and that further clarification can be given on both the content of the PIF directive and the establishment of the European Economic Area. I believe that for a number of groups, which have not expressed themselves as clearly as my group, this may give rise to a final judgement that could contribute to the establishment of the EPPO. In conclusion, I would like to state what I think of the motion by the PvdA Group that such a motion would not, if it were to succeed, contribute to the achievement of broad support in this Chamber for the establishment of the EPPO. That's the trade-off. I am pleased to see that all the fog has been raised at that point, as is always the case in traffic between me and the esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u71	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. It's time to take stock. The SGP's concerns against a European Public Prosecutor's Office have not been removed. Maybe I should even say, on the contrary. It is precisely the answer given by the Minister that shows what a complex proposal, with the necessary open ends, is on the table with regard to the EPPO, where responsibilities and competences in the sensitive area of criminal law are divided and interwoven in a rather complex and precarious way between Europe and the Member States. I still have to see if all that's gonna fly. For the SGP, criminal law belongs par excellence at the national level. Here, too, the democratic embedding is best secured. We find the transfer of Dutch powers in the field of detection and prosecution to Europe undesirable. In conclusion, as far as the SGP is concerned, no string comes out of the Dutch mailbox, but we simply keep the door locked for a European Public Prosecutor. To underline this, in the light of the motion for a resolution that has just been tabled, I would like to table the next motion myself. I only have the motion digitally, so I'm asking the chairman to read it from my iPad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u72	This is very modern and for the first time. So I am now reading the motion from Mr Van Dijk's iPad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u73	Thank you for that. The President shall: Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Wezel, Mr Markuszower, Mr Sietsma and Mr Dercksen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a majority of the European Member States currently seem prepared to vote in favour of the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Whereas the proposals for a European Public Prosecutor's Office currently under discussion cannot count on a majority of the Supreme Court;]] [[calls on the Government not to give a favourable opinion in the forthcoming JHA Council on the proposal put forward by the Slovak EU Presidency on the establishment of the EM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33709-Y]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u74	I have two questions about this. How can we know what the opinion of this Chamber would be if we wanted to send out signals? But I admit that may have to do with my lifelong weakness in maths. The second question: does Mr Van Dijk think it is justified to give such a clear position to the Minister? I understand clearly that there are still many openings that could lead to a slightly different final proposal than the one before us today. Could that not mean that Mr Van Dijk could possibly look at such a final proposal with a different view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u75	Firstly, my assessment is that the proposals now under discussion, which we have heard, cannot count on a majority. We know for sure about the House of Representatives, and here we have to wait and see. As far as the second question is concerned, it is true that I am speaking with this motion in the sense of the Van Oosten and others motion. in the Lower House, in which it is asked not to go on this path, not to participate in the European OM, even though there is still a plan for etcetera. I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u76	For the sake of clarity, Mr Van Oosten's motion was co-signed by Mr Recourt. Mr Recourt made another assessment of the final position on 23 November. I therefore believe that the motions adopted in the House of Representatives do not, by definition, guide the position of this Chamber. That even applies to the individual groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u77	Sure, I totally agree with Mrs Duthler. That is, of course, entirely true. I indicated that it is also open to the First Chamber to come forward with such statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u78	Mr Van Dijk, you are done now. Are you going to print the motion right now and collect signatures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u79	Yeah, I'm gonna do that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u80	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister very much for his frank and constructive response. That's not a hollow phrase, because I really think he did a good job this afternoon. Now he's an expert on this file. Well, that's proven to be the case. There's more. He has given the First Chamber the feeling that, despite the slip in the Lower House, he takes her seriously. There's more. From his mouth today, at least for the first time for us, has been heard that he is actually in favour. That was written in the letter of 25 November, but it is good to hear that the Minister now says that in his opinion, in the opinion of the government, it is not in the interest of the Netherlands not to participate. In the event of interruption, I asked him whether he wanted to speak firmly and to make an effort to ensure that, wherever necessary, they would also find it. Because the day after tomorrow there will not be a vote, he has been able to buy time. I think it is important that he starts to focus his efforts on the VVD group in this House, but also on the political groups in the House of Representatives. We still have the question of what he is going to do in the JHA Council on 8 and 9 December. If I have understood correctly, there are discussions there, but there is also a clear understanding of how the various countries are in it and, in particular, by those countries which have so far been very doubtful or even on a no. Would the Minister say again what he is going to say as a Dutch position? Is he going to say that he is not allowed by the Lower House or is he going to say that they do not yet know exactly how to do it in the Upper Chamber? Or is the Minister simply going to say what he himself, as a Dutch government, thinks of it? He will understand that the latter has our preference. There are two motions that both call for a ruling from this house. As far as we are concerned, that is premature. There's no need to make a statement right now. There is no final text yet and there is no final negotiation result yet. There is another further debate with this minister to be expected in the new year, I can assume. As far as we are concerned, it is therefore much wiser to hear from the Minister that he is going to make an effort over the next few weeks to bring it to a successful conclusion in the interests of the Netherlands. Our Dutch government writes in a letter to this Chamber that not participating is not in the interest of the Netherlands. I think that's what this is all about in the end. What is in the interest of the Netherlands? That is that fraud can be combated. How is that best done? If the Minister would like to say that again, perhaps more fervently than in response to my interruption, then we do not need Mr Van Dijk's motion at all, nor do we need the motion of the Labour Party. The Minister has quite good reasons for expressing his position. Finally, I would like to mention this. We all agree that fraud must be combated and that this cannot be done without obligation. We have all noticed that the governance structure that has been created today is already a better one than the original proposal. This structure will be influenced by the Netherlands, by the Member States. This influence also comes into practice. I would like to repeat to Mr Schrijver what he so nicely addressed in an interrupting debate. The Netherlands, if we agree with this EOM, is prepared to give up some powers. You could also argue that it might help to make this continent stronger, help other countries and encourage them to take better care of their affairs. That is a profit that we may not have been so intensely addressed, but it may be counted as a blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u81	I'd like to remind you of your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u82	I have two further arguments as to why the Minister could make that effort. If it does, we'd better have some influence on the way things are going. Finally, I would like to highlight the position of the city in which we are now. Those aren't the main arguments, but they count. If it does, let it come to the Netherlands, in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u83	Mr. Chairman. I, too, would like to thank the Minister for his reply and for admitting that there are two chambers that must be taken into account. He's shown enough here to do that. My group believes that the Dutch interest and the European interest do indeed coincide. It is calculated that some EUR 500 million of EU tax money is being fraudulent every year. I think we all have an interest in stepping up this approach so that we can put an end to it as best we can. If we help other countries with this, it is also in our interest to strengthen that approach there. I have another question about that forum shopping that can work both ways. Either the procedural guarantee is being bypassed, or the country where it goes most smoothly is chosen. Is there any way of monitoring that? Is there going to be an evaluation of that? How will that be recoupled? Another question concerns the position of the European Parliament. That can only say yes or no, but I understand that the European Parliament attaches its assent to a number of other dossiers, such as Eurojust, Regulation and the PIF directive itself. As a result, it lays down as a condition that these procedural guarantees are provided in the Regulation and also linked to the Directive on legal assistance. I would like to hear a response to that in order to bring us a little bit more into that relationship of strength between the two institutions. Finally, I am somewhat estranged by the following. A number of groups here are now in principle constructive and say they want to see the interest of a European Public Prosecutor's Office and to support the Minister in this. However, these groups do not wish to make a ruling on this matter. I think it would be useful if the Minister could go to Brussels with a certain mandate or support from this Chamber. It does not seem to me that the Minister should sit on his hands in the forthcoming Councils or in the official working group. The Minister himself has just indicated that he wants to work on the formation of that EOM, precisely in order not to stand alone. Then I think it would only be useful if statements were made from Parliament to confirm that. There are parliaments that always work with mandates. I find it strange to just wait and wait and say a word at the very last moment when there is nothing left to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u84	For some strange reason, I'm a little attracted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u85	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u86	I feel addressed, even if it was only because Mrs. Strik, as is often the case, looked very deeply at me. Then I want to be very frank. In substance, I would have liked to support that motion from the Labour Party. This does not, of course, apply to the SGP. But I take it that Mr Schrijver's motion, if it is tabled now, does not reach a majority. This also means that it is clear to the outside world that a majority in this Chamber cannot give such a message to the Minister. The same applies to the motion of the SGP. I do not think it will achieve a majority either. That gives me the signal that it is much better, especially for those groups, and that is what I am saying to Mrs Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik-Strik. Further explanation doesn't seem useful at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u87	I think you've shown enough frankness. If you also give us your support, we will have one more, and I would like to give you that. As the Minister in Brussels must continue to work on support and support for a good public prosecutor and for the right guarantees, I think we should look here in the First Chamber in the next week to see if we can bring forward a clear sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u88	Mr. Chairman. The people's call for "not more but less Europe" is getting stronger. The EU can already fight EU grant fraud through better monitoring and enforcement. Misgrants can be recovered by the EU. Account can be taken in advance if necessary and the EU subsidy crane can be turned off. The EU therefore has sufficient resources to monitor and enforce fraud involving EU grant funds. That doesn't require an EOM. In view of the public's desire for "less EU," the SP maintains its position that the Netherlands should not participate in the EOM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u89	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. We listened very carefully. There is, however, a point of principle for our group. It is not just about instruments to work even more efficiently, but also about how we look at Europe and our own sovereignty. I agree with Mr Engels that this does not involve a transfer of sovereignty, but we do see the risk of sovereignty in the European Union if we continue to equip it in all areas of public administration, law and justice. Soon the matter will be settled by itself, but the balance has been reversed and a form of sovereignty has de facto emerged, even if we say that it is not formally the case. For this reason, we are looking not so much at the practical consequences of this proposal as at the fundamental question of whether we want a European legal order which, with a sense of sovereignty, I shall use that word again, because Mr Engels is now listening too. We certainly do not want that, because we do not think that the purpose is served. What are we gonna get? We are now getting a system in which our own country is not competent in a number of areas concerning the fight against fraud involving EU money and fraud by EU officials and perhaps VAT fraud in our own area. Mr Schrijver says that this has been delegated in cooperation with the national authorities. That is legally correct, but there is a hierarchy, which is done under the European Public Prosecutor's Office. This means that the direction, direction and direction of the process are no longer in their own hands. So that also means that our own parliament has no influence on that anymore. The complicated construction that the Minister explained about the responsibility for the European Public Prosecutor does not make me happy. I am not convinced that we will not be dealing with yet another bureaucratic European organisation. I think, on the contrary, that the risk is very high and that the effectiveness of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is very much under discussion. Mrs Duthler was right to point out that a possible extension of Rule 86 (4) does not go automatically or by majority, but that this requires unanimity. I would point out, however, that this is no longer about EU fraud or fraud by EU officials; this is about cross-border crime in the general sense. Let me put it another way: crime with a cross-border dimension is involved. In this very comprehensive wording, the procedural guarantee is that it can only be decided unanimously, but in principle the road to a very wide range of tasks for the European Public Prosecutor's Office in the Treaty is already open. My group does not want to go that way. We want to get on the road of cooperating national states which, wherever possible, use our own devices to combat fraud as effectively as possible. This must be done, but we do not want to go to a European institution which, like OLAF, is returning to a large building and on which we, as a national parliament, have no influence, with all the difficulties associated with its manageability. If it continues, what should the Netherlands do? Then the classic issue arises that you are going to assume system responsibility in a situation where you have not chosen to do so. I do not want to make easy comparisons, because that is an incredibly difficult dilemma. We, too, naturally want the best outcome. I respectfully repeat what Mr Rombouts said about this. If this proposal would not only lead to better detection than it is at present, it would of course be wonderful, but we do not yet see it, but if it would also mean that we could mean something to other countries, that we could actually have some sort of sending service function in order to put the level of the rule of law in Europe in order, then there will be a completely different perspective. I would like to see the proposal again with that argument, but only the argument that is now before us is not enough. We are therefore letting the fundamental considerations dominate at the moment. Green of Prinster once said: principiis obsta; resist the beginning in things you do not want. He didn't say that here, but on the other side, I think. We do not want to be gradually sucked into a development that ultimately produces something that we cannot unite with. This is our position for now. We have co-signed the motion of the SGP. We await the Minister's latest replies and, above all, developments in the European context with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u90	Mr. Chairman. The Minister was very clear and I thank him for that. He was also clear about his own position and that of the cabinet, which is a positive basic position. I am not the first to see it, but I had the feeling that this afternoon's discussion should indeed have been encouraging for the Minister. There will probably be some delay, in the sense that the final result is not quite achieved on Thursday. This means that there may still be room for missionary work and conversion, if I may put it that way, in the House of Representatives. I agree with the thrust of Mr Schrijver's motion, but I would like to hear from the Minister whether he thinks it is appropriate for motions to be dealt with at the moment. In any case, I expect the Minister to cooperate positively in achieving the best possible regulation in the Council on Thursday. It seems to me that after this discussion we can expect that from him. I think he's gonna start working on that right away. I have one more specific question. I think the Minister is right to point out that the Commission's original proposal would probably have delivered the most for the weak states of the south and east. Is it true that those states were in favour of the original proposal by a majority and that the strong states, which can actually save themselves, have reduced the scope of the proposal? That question seems very important to me to assess what is going on. I didn't follow the file enough to be able to judge it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u91	I have been asked by the Minister to suspend the sitting for five minutes before he begins his second-term reply. I understand five minutes is enough for that. But, but, but, but, uh, before we suspend, here's what I want to say. Several times it has been said 'we are not going to vote, at least in the JHA Council there is no vote' and 'we would not vote in the Chamber', but this morning it was said in the Seniors' College that a vote on the motions would take place immediately, with a view to the JHA Council this week. Now two motions have been tabled. One says this and the other says that, but no decision has yet been taken officially in this Chamber as to whether or not we are going to vote on motions. The Minister has now received a directive from this Chamber, but I would like to discuss with the Chamber the decision of the College of Seniors to vote on the motions tabled immediately after the end of this afternoon's debate. Are we gonna do that or not? I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Duthler. Speak to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u92	Now that the decision-making process is postponed next Thursday and Friday, my group does not think it is necessary to vote on motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u93	I'd like a little more information. Is decision-making indeed being postponed? A very short time ago, there would be a decision-making process. In any case, it is important to know what the government is going to do. As almost always, my motion is only intended to give the Minister a little support. I would like to hear from him whether that is indeed the case. As it says "standing JHA Rades," I can imagine that we will be voting on it next week. If the Minister says that this is not helping at all, I have no need to put that motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u94	As far as I am concerned, the votes could also take place next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u95	Our group has remained special to wait for the debate and to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u96	You're taking part in the debate, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u97	We're gonna have to postpone. As far as we're concerned, we can't wipe this EOM off the table fast enough. We would like to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u98	Something wonderful is happening right now. I consider the College of Seniors to be very high, but that too has no predictive power. The College has thought that there could be a vote today, but something has come through. The debate on Thursday and Friday will not take place, so there is no need for us to vote here. We can, of course, do that, but I think it would be better to wait for the Minister's answer and hear what he is going to do with the call to be active himself. Then we still have to see if the Writer's motion c.s. Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. It's happening. I would argue that the Minister should be given the time and space to do the best for the Netherlands over the next few weeks, perhaps months, and that we should not interfere with this House's statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u99	That is a wonderful appeal, but it is my concern that I should like a ruling from this Chamber that the decision of the College of Seniors should not be taken and that we should not vote on the motions or that the decision should be taken and that we should vote on the motions. I have heard your point of view, Mr Rombouts, and now I am going to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u100	I agree with what Mr Schrijver said. I would like to hear from the Minister clearly that no agreement or anything whatsoever will be requested from the Dutch Government on the formation of an EOM next Thursday. If that is the case, I do not object in principle to the postponement of the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u101	I agree with Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u102	My group has no objection to suspending the vote on the motions for resolutions to next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u103	I asked the Minister about his feelings about the opportunity of these motions. My own feeling is that it is not appropriate to want to do that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u104	Once the Minister has replied, what we are going to do will become clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u105	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for the very constructive and open debate we have had. For many ministers, they consider the debate in the First Chamber with special appreciation, and that is the case again. This is a point of principle on which we will have further discussions in the coming months. Mr. Chairman. I would like to propose, with your permission and with those of Members, that I outline the procedure. There will be a debate in the JHA Council, but no vote. The government is not expected to speak for or against what is then on the table. I will therefore continue to do what I have always done, namely to state that we will make a final assessment of a proposal before the EPPO if there is such a final assessment. I have already said in the debate that we will submit the final result to both Chambers by letter. I would like to take up in that letter the points specifically mentioned in the second term by Mrs Duthler, Mr Engels, Mr Rombouts and Mrs Strik. I will include all these questions in the letter that I will send to both Chambers, so that you have answers to the questions that have been asked in the second term. I would like to take part in the debate in the JHA Council and say that I reserve my opinion on behalf of the Dutch Government until there is a full proposal that I have had the opportunity to discuss again with both Chambers. That does not affect the cabinet position, I say to Mr Rombouts. That is well known. I can now say on behalf of the cabinet that I do not need one motion or the other for the simple reason that there is no decision-making. Both motions are subject to decision-making. There are two possibilities. I can suggest to the authors of the motions that they be retained. If that does not happen, it seems to me that it is most purely to discourage the motions for the simple reason that they are unnecessary in function at the moment because there is no decision on the EPPO. I have already said at the beginning that I am not sure whether it is bubbling and bubbling in Brussels at the moment, or whether it is not going to be asked to approve the PIF directive. Moreover, the Netherlands will find that this is not obvious because we want to assess it in conjunction with the EPPO. However, I do not rule out the possibility of this being possible. By the way, the Chamber has seen our position on this in a letter. The EPPO will not be voted on and we will not have to take a stand. In this sense, we do not need any guidance from the Chamber at the moment. I will submit the answers to the questions that have been asked in writing to the Chamber as soon as the result is known.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u106	Two motions have been tabled. I propose that we vote on it next Tuesday. I see Mr Schrijver for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u107	I am pleased to note that in the course of the day the Minister has once again become fully interested in the establishment of the EPPO. I am pleased that the government will, in principle, take a positive stance on this subject, as Mr Rombouts asked. It was new to us that probably not too much will happen at the JHA Council, except for an inventory of positions. The Labour Party therefore follows the advice of holding the motion. So I am not asking for a vote next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u108	At the request of Mr Schrijver, I propose that his motion (33709, letter X) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u109	Mr. Chairman. Following this. I suppose the Minister is enough to travel to Brussels in this way, with the critical reaction of the House of Representatives and of a part of the House of Representatives in mind. For the rest, I would also like to hold my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u110	At the request of Mr Diederik van Dijk, I propose that his motion (33709, letter Y) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-10.u111	Since the motions have been held, they will not be voted on next week. I wish the Minister every success in the JHA Council.
