ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u1	The Minister had already started his first term. If it's okay, he's moving on now. I understand that 11 amendments still have to be considered. I think that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 59 (34348) by Mr Smaling. He considered that the five-year duration of the search should be subject to a one-off two-year extension. I don't think that's an improvement on what I want. Because I don't want five, I want four years. Furthermore, I would only like an extension if it is really necessary because there has been no delay on the part of the holder of the authorisation. What is now proposed by Mr Smaling is not an improvement. There will be more space and it will all take longer than necessary. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. The amendment in part No. 60 (34348) by Mrs Van Veldhoven and others, tabled to replace that in document No. 34, is about re-injecting production water. She says that under the Mining Act a storage permit is always required. I've already argued why I don't want to. I did say that I am willing to work with a plan and a separate storage permit when it is re-injected in a place other than where the water was brought up. I didn't do that for cases where the same place is stored in the soil. Then you are going to influence the whole geothermal system, which will not be the intention of Mrs Van Veldhoven. I believe that we are not far apart from each other on this point, including my commitment. I hope, therefore, that Mrs van Veldhoven will vote in favour of this amendment if, despite this, I do not recommend it. Mr Smaling served in part No. 61 (34348) in which he says that the Minister must pay compensation from the Guarantee Fund...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u3	What amendment do you want to ask a question about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u4	On the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u5	Yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u6	Yes. I understand the Minister's reasoning and I thank him for his commitment. I will look into whether there is a need for a separate permit, which can then be added to the coordination of permits, which we discussed earlier, so that it is not an additional administrative burden. We need to be sure that injections do not cause risks, but can be included in ongoing permits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u7	I'd like to leave what Mrs. Van Veldhoven says on her behalf. I said what I wanted to say about this, laying the relationship with geothermal energy. Furthermore, I have said that there are no problems when it comes to storage in the same place. If it's about another place, I'm gonna have to figure something out. I want to do the same with regard to the storage permit and the storage plan. This amendment by Mrs van Veldhoven and others. I didn't advise. In the amendment to item No. 61 by Mr Smaling he says that the Minister must award compensation to the Guarantee Fund if the Tcbb has established that a damage is reasonably due to mining activities. We must be careful to ensure that there is a risk liability for the mining operator. If damage is caused by his activities, it must always be compensated. It does not matter whether it is lawful or unlawful what he does: whenever he causes damage, he must be compensated. People can always go to the Tcbb to ask if damage is due to mining activities. If the Tcbb then concludes that that is the case, the injured party may request an advance from the Guarantee Fund in such cases that the operator contests the Tcbb's judgment. Someone thinks he's damaged. The Tcbb has an opinion on this. Then the Tcbb says that the damage is the result of mining activities. This can be done in cases where the operator contests the Tcbb's judgment. Someone, for example, thinks there's damage. The Tcbb gives an opinion on this and it is said that this damage is the result of mining activities. If the operator disputes this, such damages from the Guarantee Fund may be advanced until the dispute has been resolved. We must also bear in mind that this does not apply to the Groningenveld, because in this respect the NAM has promised that the advice of the Tcbb will always be followed. Moreover, in Groningen the arbitrator has been called in, so that in the event of disagreement about damage a ruling can be made very quickly. In general terms, if the operator does not provide a claim because he is in financial difficulties or because he no longer exists, the injured party can always rely on the guarantee fund for mining damage. The Smalling amendment that we are discussing now goes through the system of liability of mining companies with its content. That's between the one who causes damage and the one who suffers damage. We have legal rules for that and it is important that we apply them. There is no reason to deal with this differently in the case of mining damage than in other cases of damage. Should the Chamber adopt this amendment, it will create legal inequality, which is not desirable. The text of the amendment also affects the basis of liability law. The principle of liability law is that anyone who causes damage must bear it. With the amendment, the burden of the damage caused through the State would eventually end up with the Guarantee Fund, which is fed by all mining companies. If there is then one mining company that does something wrong, all mining companies have to pay for it. That's not good. I think we've settled everything about damage right now. It is not good to deviate ad hocly from the general principles of liability law. That is why I recommend that this amendment by Mr Smaling be rejected. I come to the Dik-Faber c.s amendment. in piece No. 62 (34348) which states that the extraction of hydrocarbon from shale gas should be prohibited. This is a subject on which the Chamber has often spoken. The cabinet then made a political agreement which was exchanged with the Chamber and for which I received its support. That agreement means that the commercial detection and extraction of shale gas is not on the agenda for the next five years and that a long-term investigation is needed to find out about shale gas in the Netherlands. If they are drilled in the longer term, they will be scientific drills commissioned by the cabinet. Geothermal aspects will also be considered. This is an important political agreement that I want to keep. This amendment goes through this. That is why I do not recommend accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u8	Of course, I am aware of the arrangements made by the Cabinet and the Chamber. There is a moratorium on shale gas, but today we are discussing a law that makes it possible to exclude shale gas for the future instead of doing so for a limited number of years. In my group's view, this is a good solution. I see that there are now areas in this country, including the North-East Polder, where there is a fear that shale gas extraction will take place at some point. This also harms economic interests. I therefore call on the Minister and the Chamber to remove the uncertainty about the moratorium and to legally lay down the ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u9	We can talk about shale gas every day, but we have done so very extensively a number of times, and the cabinet then made a political agreement on this. It has been exchanged with the Chamber and has received the support of the Chamber. I therefore think it would be appropriate for us to keep that agreement now. I respect Mrs Dik-Faber's views, but they do not correspond to what has been agreed on this point. That is why I do not recommend accepting the amendment. The amendment in part No. 21 will be replaced by Amendment No 21 by Amendment No 21 by Amendment No 21 by Amendment No 21 by Amendment No 21 by Amendment No 21 by Amendment No 21 by Amendment No 21 by Amendment No 21 by Amendment No 21 by However, that amendment has not changed its content. I have already dealt with the amendment to item No 1 this morning. Twenty-one may respond. The conclusion I reached at the time is unchanged. This is because I am not going to accept this amendment. The amendment in part No. 64 replaces the amendment in part No. 15. The difference is the signature. My opinion on that amendment is the same as I said this morning, namely that I leave the judgment to the Chamber. In amendment Agnes Mulder c.s. in piece No. 65 (34348) states that compensation must be paid from the Guarantee Fund at the end of the 30-year limitation period. The Civil Code has a well-balanced system for limitation of actions for damages. As with damage caused by soil pollution, air pollution, water pollution and dangerous substances, damage caused by mining activities is subject to a long limitation period of 30 years. In other countries this is 10 or 20 years, but in the Netherlands it is 30 years. The specific sneaking nature of these forms of injury has therefore been taken into account in that long limitation period. Those limitation periods should provide legal certainty for all those involved. The UCALL report and the legal analysis and advice we have received show that these limitation periods are longer in the Netherlands than in the other countries. We have set up the Guarantee Fund for those cases where the operator would be liable but no longer exists. This means that once the limitation period has expired, that operator would have been unaccountable if it had been there. It is therefore very strange, in such a case, to grant benefits from the Guarantee Fund. I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u10	This amendment originated from the history we know in Limburg. Of course there is an investigation going on now, but we now also have the Mining Act to deal with. That is why I want to keep this amendment on the table. The point is that at the moment that mining companies have caused damage and that is still the case after 30 years, we want to prevent the Dutch government from taking the fall, but that it comes from the fund well-stocked by the mining companies. It seems very fair to us that the polluter pays, even after 30 years. This applies not only to the Limburgers, but also to the Groningers in the distant future. Imagine the very strange case that in the long term things are going to be less good with the fossil companies, then maybe they won't be there anymore. Then where are the people supposed to go? I think that's a concern. The CDA would like to take care of that now. I hope the Minister has an eye and care for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mrs Mulder may say so, but the Guarantee Fund has been set up for cases where the operator would be liable but no longer exists. In the event that the operator would not be liable at all, it is really weird to say that a payment must be made from the Guarantee Fund. It can't be. So there are a number of reasons why this is really not reasonable. I also think that it is unwise, particularly with regard to Groningen, where the origin of this amendment is, while we are conducting a major investigation, to make all kinds of pre-arranged statements about it. Apart from that, I believe that it is also technically incorrect in this case, because the Guarantee Fund is being wrongly called upon. The Van Veldhoven amendment to item No. 66 (34348) concerns security of supply. We have laid down in the law that the importance of safety must be taken into account. We have established that the importance of preventing damage must be taken into account. I have proposed including security of supply. Now we are going to get over it quite easily, but if there is a cold winter and there is not enough gas, the country is standing still and the people in their homes are cold, you will see what kind of misery there is, even here in the Chamber. It is therefore very logical to take this security of supply into account. Mrs van Veldhoven now says that approval of a extraction plan can only be accompanied by security of supply requirements, in so far as it does not affect the importance of safety or the prevention of damage in an unacceptable way. You can look at that differently. I've always put safety first for myself. It must be avoided that there is constant damage. Mrs Van Veldhoven then says: I place this security of supply in third place, it is in the picture, but it should not in an unacceptable way undermine the other two. I think that this is an argument which should be defended and leave the opinion on that amendment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 67 (34348) by Mr Jan Vos sees the surroundings of the Wadden Sea. That amendment provides that no new environmental permits for the creation of mining work are granted in the Wadden Sea, in the Wadden Islands and in the Natura 2000 North Sea Coastal Zone. Furthermore, to the north of the Natura 2000 area of the North Sea Coastal Zone, but within the 12 mile zone, new environmental permits for surface extraction facilities are only granted if the co-use of an existing platform is not possible and if, in addition, visual impairment is minimised. We talked about that this morning. We also discussed this on an earlier occasion, when we had the debate here in the Chamber at the beginning of my first term. I am concerned that at the moment I am not able to apply the legal procedures properly, because they are crossed by statements from the Chamber. I have to respect the Chamber. I've been looking at this situation. The Wadden environment is a special environment. I see the connection between the North Sea coastal zone, the Wadden Islands and the Wadden Sea itself. The Court has made specific rulings on this matter. Although I am convinced that the current legal frameworks provide sufficient assurance, I also see that clarity is important in order to ensure orderly conduct of business. I leave it to the House to decide on the amendment to item No. 67 (34348) by Mr Jan Vos to the Chamber. There are two other issues that I will briefly discuss. The first is the amendment to item No. 18 (34390) by Mr Smaling and Mrs Van Tongeren 8 (34390) replaces. That amendment concerns a team of experts, a geo-team, as Mr Smaling in particular calls it. That should be hung under the Tcbb. From Mr Smaling's explanatory statement he pointed out that he wanted, above all, that there should be a scientific knowledge programme independent of the NAM, which would also be independently managed. That is in line with what I intend to do. I, too, want to have such an independent scientific knowledge programme. I want a committee on that with people who can manage it independently, even if I have to get them from abroad. That means that the intention I have with regard to that scientific knowledge programme and the scientific knowledge committee is in line with the background to this amendment by Mr Smaling. If he comes up with an amendment which gives this knowledge programme and that scientific committee a legal basis and legally anchors it in the Mining Act, then I leave the judgment to the Chamber. This amendment in part No. 18 (34390) I have dissuaded and continue to dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u12	I am very pleased with the way in which this procedure is working, so the amendment to item No. 18 (34390) can be removed and then I will table another amendment in accordance with the way in which the Minister has expressed himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u13	You are withdrawing the amendment in part No. 18 (34390) in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u14	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u15	The Smaling/Van Tongeren amendment (Doc. 18 (34390) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u16	Then the amendment announced by Mr Smaling does not have a number, but he has informed me of its content. I leave the opinion on that amendment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 19 (34390) by Mrs van Veldhoven corresponds in substance to the amendment which replaces it, the amendment in part No. 11 (34390). I responded to that last one this morning, and I left it to the Chamber to judge it. So I leave the judgment to the Chamber again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u17	That is probably the amendment on item No. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. 39. I understand that this is only about a change in the signature. You left the opinion on that amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u18	Then I will stick to what I said about it this morning, namely that I leave it to the Chamber to decide. I come to a point raised by Mrs Van Tongeren with regard to the preliminary procedure. If there is an initiative to win somewhere, or at least to carry out investigations, you get the whole procedure that goes on for a long time. Mr Bosman has put forward the proposal to coordinate matters. He just referred to that, too. Mrs van Tongeren said this morning that she thinks it is important to coordinate matters at the beginning of this procedure, because then you can achieve that the permits will be dealt with in conjunction and that it will not be said to citizens and others who come up with views and objections: you are with this one now, but you are actually with the other. It leads to confusion that there are different procedures, whereas it is actually about the same subject matter. In the initial phase, an environmental permit, a Nature Act permit, an exemption from the Flora and fauna Act and a Water Act permit may be considered. In this context, an EIA will normally be made. You can then combine all of that so that you can apply the results of the EIA to everything and you can also connect and weigh everything together. Mrs Van Tongeren said that she thought that was a desirable situation. If it comes up with an amendment on this point, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u19	We are indeed coming up with an amendment to make it clear that there is usually an EIA, as the Minister said, and to clarify at what time and under what legislation it takes place. It must be clear that it is about the whole and not just about one small piece. In this way, it is easier for businesses, citizens and governments to advise when they can say something. I think we should get out of there. If I understand correctly, it's being written to right now. So we are trying to come up with such an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u20	I would ask you to withdraw the amendment to item No. 1 of the motion for a resolution. 50 (34348) in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u21	I do not know whether the amendment should be amended or whether it should be withdrawn and retabled, but I will make use of one of these two possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u22	That is also possible in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u23	I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren's explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-8.u24	I thank the Minister for his answers. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Before we proceed to the second term, I would like to discuss briefly with the spokesmen how we are going to enter the second period.
