ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice and the people in the public gallery. Speaking time is four minutes. I call Mrs Helder from the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Life's life's life's life's life's life's life's life's life's life's The PVV thinks so, and as many as 93% of those interviewed in a RTL News poll think so. The Secretary of State also wrote this in his letter of 6 June last, but that is the end of the consensus. The Secretary of State is kneeling down because of a court ruling in which no life imprisonment was imposed, because the court considers that this is at odds with the European Convention on Human Rights. The Secretary of State pretends that there are more statements that require this, but that is not the case. I will not deny that the statements say that life imprisonment may be at odds with the ECHR, but that is something else. Why is it so bad that the Secretary of State doesn't keep his back straight? The Secretary of State comes with an automatic periodic review and an advisory board. I quote a passage from his letter: "With its introduction, for the lifelong punished, the clarity about the implementation of his detention and the possibilities of activities aimed at reintegration is created. This removes the need for lifelong punishments to enforce these activities in individual procedures." In ordinary Dutch: all life-long punished people eventually get resocialization activities and can then start practicing in society. 'Cause that's what it's gonna come down to eventually. That's a slap in the face of the next of kin. It is unnecessary, what the Secretary of State can decide differently as legislative power. It is unnecessary because the rulings do not require this. It is also the reversed world; always test after 25 years, instead of following an individual demand. It is also contradictory: rehabilitation activities in life imprisonment. Attention should be paid to inmates, including those in prison who are serving a life sentence. But as far as PVV is concerned, the balance must go to the side of the next of kin. Because they really do have a life sentence. The fact that the Secretary of State sees them as a tiny part of the procedure does not make it any different for my group. Life's life's life's life's life's life's life's life's life's life's life's life's life. On an individual basis, pardon can be requested and that is enough. Let us not forget that life imprisonment is not for nothing a legal possibility and is also imposed. If it does not convince the Secretary of State, but nevertheless wishes to look at the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights, he must do so well. In the case of Hutchinson against the United Kingdom, the ECHR is returning at its pace. It has been considered that it is up to the national authorities themselves to determine whether there is a conflict with the European Treaty. In the Murray case against the Netherlands, the European Court of Justice is even completely absent from the question of whether the Dutch system is in breach of the European Treaty. It has only been said that in the specific case the absence of psychiatric treatment has the effect that the question of whether any purpose is still served by punishment cannot be answered. There is no reason for the Secretary of State to introduce a new system. In fact, in 2015, life imprisonment was imposed three times. The fear that this punishment will not be imposed under unchanged policies is unfounded. The Secretary of State should have taken an example of the United Kingdom, which was not allowed to be prescribed by the European Court of Justice. The United Kingdom has made it clear, following the "judgment" of its system in the Vinter case, that it does not change its system. Not much later, the European Court accepted that position of the United Kingdom in the Hutchinson case. So that's how it's gonna be. Finally, a point which the Secretary of State may reappear. When asked by the Telegraaf to his readers whether an interim review of a life sentence after 25 years is humane, 84% replied with "oneness." Two thirds of the members of the One-Today opinion panel want, like the PVV, to remain lifelong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. I think we can immediately hear the two extremes of the spectrum here, after Mrs Helder from the PVV than now D66. We know life imprisonment as the most severe punishment in our rule of law. The most serious criminals who commit the most atrocious crimes, you want to protect society from them, and for those cases D66 also thinks that the judge should have, and should also keep, the opportunity to keep, a perpetrator from our society for good in principle. But "in principle" is not the same as "without more." In our rule of law, we stand for humane punishment. That is the starting point, including for life imprisonment. So in the Netherlands, we don't just lock people up without any perspective. The opportunity to improve his life and one day to be freed is the basis of our rule of law, and it is not appropriate to ignore that principle. But that's what this cabinet does. The Secretary of State can pardon a life sentence, only that has never happened in the last 30 years, except once, when someone was very seriously ill. It doesn't happen because there's no full-fledged re-socialization process. Without a resocialization file containing information on developments that the inmate has been through, you cannot make a careful assessment. So you can't judge whether someone can get back into society and then you can't grant grace. The result is that judges are no longer allowed to impose the life sentence. This is demonstrated by the ruling of the Supreme Court of 5 July 2016, because the current interpretation is contrary to Article 3 of the ECHR. That was the reason for the motion of D66, PvdA and ChristenUnion, in which the cabinet was called upon to take a careful and independent test after 25 years to see whether release could be discussed, or whether the sentence should be continued. I would stress that this right to review is not equivalent to a right to release. The Secretary of State is now taking a courageous step towards repair, but his proposal does not provide a solution to the case law, but only a vague compromise that does not seem to be Strasbourg proof. His proposal takes the wrong test. This is not about starting reintegration activities after 25 years. On the contrary, these activities must start on day one, and that is not happening now. That's the problem, as the judge put it in Edwin S's case. The test, which must be carried out and which the European Court referred to in the Vinter and Murray cases, is to assess whether release is possible in due course. For this you need a resocialisation process with a follow-up procedure and a re-evaluation of the sentence by the judge. That's not a test to leave to an advisory board of the Secretary of State. You shouldn't leave that to politics. The Secretary of State says: I trust that my advisory board will be authoritative. Why not opt for a college that has authority anyway, for example, the penitentiary chamber of the court in Arnhem? Why does the Secretary of State not entrust the re-evaluation of life to justice? The judge imposes the penalties, so the judge can and must also decide whether that sentence can be shortened or not. I'm rounding up. The Secretary of State's plan does not provide a solution for judges who are Strasbourg proof, whereas that is what the third state power is asking of us. D66 therefore urges the Secretary of State to create an independent judge test, so that there is no longer inhumane enforcement of penalties in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, life is also real what the word says: the rest of your life behind bars. This punishment should remain possible as far as the SP is concerned. It's the worst possible punishment for the most serious crimes. A judge doesn't just sentence a man to life. That is why we need to give judges the opportunity to impose for life where that punishment is appropriate, by restoring policy in line with human rights. The way in which life is now applied in the Netherlands is no longer sustainable because there is no perspective for the convicted person. We have known this for a while, but proposals from the cabinet on this matter were long overdue, despite court rulings and clear case law of the European Court of Human Rights. And the Supreme Court was also clear about this recently. The assessment of a life sentence was then stopped because the imposition of a life sentence in the Netherlands is currently in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights. Judges don't put up life imprisonment like that anymore. There is the contradiction with the ECHR. This is undesirable. In order to do something about this, we need to introduce a real possibility of re-evaluation of the life sentence. It's missing now. That review shall preferably be carried out by the judge. That's what the Supreme Court suggested. This should not be a political decision. The convicted person must be able to prepare himself during the sentence for a possible return to society. That should not be done after 25 years, but before. If you test the Secretary of State's plans against these conditions, it's gonna be bad. The proposed policy change by the Secretary of State is not sufficient. If it's up to him, we'll only see after 25 years whether we're going to be working on a return to society at all. If, after 25 years, the new consultative college thinks that activities should be offered, then the Secretary of State can still say: no, we are not going to do that. Why is that way chosen? The re-evaluation of the sentence will not take place after 25 years, but will be postponed in time. The pardon procedure also remains the right way forward. Why not put this in the hands of an independent judge in the future? Isn't it more logical for a judge to change the original judgment of a judge, and not the King after the Secretary of State's advice? Why, according to the Secretary of State, should this be a political decision? There's a lot of criticism of the resocialization of lifelong punished. There is not enough work on returning to society. Of course, a person who is still a danger to that society cannot and must not be released. That seems perfectly clear to me. But with resocialization and that personal development plan, you don't have to wait until after 25 years. If you do, you don't know anything about the suspect's person at the re-evaluation after 25 years. The court of The Hague ruled in August 2016, in line with the European Court of Human Rights, that a life-long punished person should be able to resocialise. The Secretary of State says: we can do that already. They look like two different worlds, but what is it? How am I supposed to reconcile the State Secretary's ruling with that of the court in The Hague? And what about recovery and awareness in relation to the legitimate interests of victims and survivors? In short, the SP believes that life should remain possible. But to do so, it is necessary to bring policy into line with human rights. The Secretary of State's proposals are insufficient, with the result that judges do not yet have the opportunity to impose a life sentence. It is therefore necessary to start earlier with useful implementation of detention and rehabilitation, with necessary treatment and with therapy, so that after 25 years the development of a person can be balanced. As far as the SP is concerned, this will therefore be a judge's test, a real re-evaluation of the sentence. Is the continuation of that punishment still justified and meaningful? Bring the policy into line with human rights in order to prevent the actual abolition of life imprisonment. I think we can expect that from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u5	So I hear my colleague from the SP, unlike my colleague from D66, saying that the imposition of a life sentence must remain an option. However, I also hear my colleague from the SP say: re-socialization activities must be started sooner than at the earliest after 25 years if the college advises it, what the Secretary of State proposes. But Article 2 of the Penitentiary Principles Act simply states that, by maintaining the character of the custodial sentence, its implementation is made available to the preparation of the return to society as much as possible and depending on the behaviour of the person concerned. But basically life is life. Well, then you're not gonna start re-socializing right away, are you? That would therefore be contrary to the nature of life imprisonment. So what does the colleague of the SP think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u6	I believe that as much work as possible should be done on standardisation. That means that you don't just offer people a day program, but that you prefer to let them do something meaningful in detention. That's what my party's been for a long time. There is a need for something to be done in return for society. I know the fine example where people work in a garden and the harvest is taken to the food bank. That also has to do with awareness and recovery, recognising that you have made a terrible mistake. For example, you do work on recovery and awareness by working on an apology letter, et cetera. There is very little room for that at the moment. In my view, this is not enough. If people are not allowed by the Dutch government to work on themselves and their problems, or a treatment or therapy that they may need, this means that even after 25 years you will not be able to assess at all what development someone has experienced. He is not able to develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. One of the first meetings I had here in the Chamber as a Member of Parliament was with representatives of the Life Forum. They expected me to agree entirely with them. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik had een achtergrond in het gevangeniswezen, had een klap van de molen van de Utrechtse School gehad en had bij de Verenigde Naties gewerkt.]] Then you're in favour of what Forum was Lifelong for, which is the removal of lifelong imprisonment. I then told them in the conversation that since I worked in the Chamber I was also a contact person for parents of murdered children and associations who stand up for the interests of the next of kin, as I do now. I have very intensive contact. Actually, all the MPs sitting here have that. They know how terrible their suffering is. I have noticed, in my view, that there is a shift of attention from standing up for the interests of those who are trapped and who appear to be the victims of our legal system, to standing up for the interests of those who are the real victims. That has taken a very deep line with me. It's caused me a lot of trouble with what we're doing here. I am also very worried, because I find that a lot of people in our country do not agree with that. High courts think that what we do is inhumane, on an international basis, while people in our society just don't think that way. I can tell you quite simply: we have a legal system that is really fucking different from, for example, that in Belgium, where the rats are walking on the ground. We have a very decent legal system in the Netherlands. We have a very decent prison system, of which there are people here today. We criticize this very often, but in the end everyone is doing a terrible job. As far as we are concerned, that should only be more. And then what's in front of us? The image that we would be inhumane, when I truly, truly, in the depths of my soul find that it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u8	I suppose Mrs Van Toorenburg, as a lawyer, knows that the Supreme Court, our highest judge, said on 5 July that life imprisonment cannot be imposed as long as enforcement is inhumane, and that this could not be done again until a good independent test has been passed, and I repeat perspective: perspective, and not a right to release. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg agree with me that, when you do not, that life imprisonment cannot be imposed at all, as the Supreme Court now says? Something must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u9	It is always difficult to make the move from the human emotional story to the legal one, but fortunately Mrs Swinkels and I are usually at risk in that respect. I simply do not agree that we always read justice as Mrs Swinkles is reading it now. I think you can think differently about that, too. You read that in literature, and you talk to lawyers about it. You can see that the Supreme Court and the European Court say that if there is no possibility, no prospect, no chance and no opportunity for release, then people think it is inhumane. I'm just gonna say it a little bit simple. However, Mrs Helder has rightly said that a number of statements show something else. Unfortunately, we cannot have the whole debate on this in those four minutes. That's why I'm coming up with another proposal later. That's a cliff pendant. I think it's true from a legal point of view that if someone goes to jail right now, the key is turned and there's no chance ever, the judge will say it's inhumane. I understand that, but we do not have that system in the Netherlands. That is why it has always passed the European test so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u10	It is not Chinese when the Supreme Court writes about Article 3, in recital 3.2: from the legal framework set out above, therefore, we are talking about Article 3 of the ECHR, it follows, however, that a life sentence cannot be imposed if it is not already clear at the time of the imposition that there is, over time, a real possibility of re-evaluation of the life sentence which, in the relevant cases, could possibly lead to a reduction in the sentence or conditional release? That's what it says. How else can you explain that, how can you read that other than that something must happen now, otherwise life imprisonment cannot be imposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mrs. Swinkels and I both went to law school. One of the major subjects in the first few years I've had it for two years is reading case law. Why is that? Because it a) is almost Chinese and b) you can always read other things in it than what Mrs. Swinkels so firmly says. Indeed, the Supreme Court says it is inhumane if there is no chance of an assessment. But who says there isn't? What if there isn't a chance? Is there not the possibility of improving a number of cases, as former Minister Hirsch Ballin said? He put forward a letter to this effect at the time. Those improvements have not yet been made. That you're doing something about pardon, I can imagine. That's an immediate question to the Secretary of State. I see him frowning, and I get that. After all, this is also an interpretation of grace. However, the question is whether this should be done in the way he proposes. Should he not have brought the Chamber a little more, as the Council of Europe has actually said: take your people with you in your mind? Never heard of it, until one stands with one's back against the wall. Anyway, take us with you. How can we solve this, and not as is proposed now? We are very unhappy about this. We do not share the criticism that what is contained in our Code of Criminal Law is inhumane. The same applies to implementation. Actually, I think the Secretary of State is putting his head in the lap a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u12	I understand the concerns. I totally understand what you're saying. What I find so terrible about the way you explain it is that the result may be that nothing happens at all, that we leave it as it is, and then we are confronted with a ruling from the Supreme Court to which Mrs Swinkels refers, after which this punishment is no longer imposed. I find it really indigestible that the consequence of this can be or is, if I take up the ruling of the Supreme Court that people are imposed for up to 30 years and then are free again after 20 years on the basis of the Law conditional release. I can't explain that to the victims, the next of kin or society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u13	"Oh, boy," says Mrs. Helder. That's right. You're agitated, I'm not sure why, but that's okay. I think the VVD is just standing with its back against the wall. She doesn't want this, but she does. The question is still whether it should be. I'm simply not convinced. Nor am I convinced that no judge will ever impose the penalty again. I understand that Mr Van Oosten is convinced of this and that the VVD is now going to lie in the air. I said for a reason that the Council of Europe said to the Netherlands: take your people with you. That's almost literally what it says. Nothing has been done about that, not even by the VVD, which now calls in high tone that it has to. No way. That could have been done, but it didn't happen. And now all of a sudden it has to be said, because otherwise the judges will not impose the punishment. I don't know. I've heard Mrs. Helder and I've spoken to judges. They say, "We'll lay it down if we need to." That is the most serious issue. What if we have a Dutroux in the Netherlands? I wonder if there are judges in the Netherlands who will not be serving life imprisonment. I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u14	Tough words from Mrs Van Toorenburg! Tough words! Of course, you may criticize the way you took your people, but we're now in a court of law. We now have a verdict from the Supreme Court. He's just saying what he says. I'm not gonna let this life sentence become a museum piece with us, like the Secretary of State said. I can't understand why anyone who commits the most horrible crimes is released after 20 years. I can't get that explained, and I won't accept that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u15	And I cannot be explained that we are now going to build a construction without legislation being prepared, without the Chamber dealing with a proper law, for which we normally have more than four minutes of speaking time. That's bad. I can't explain that. In addition, I cannot explain that we are about to have a periodic check with an advisory committee that I have not yet seen. Nor can I explain why it is not made clear to me in advance how the next of kin is handled properly. I can't explain that. We had a debate earlier because we wanted to establish the right of victims to speak in the law. We also said at the time: could you not do that with a policy rule, because all the judges want that. But that didn't happen. At that time, we agreed that this should be regulated by a law, because it would really help to capture the interests of the victims and because it would allow you to weigh in any way you want to do so. The Secretary of State doesn't do that. He says there's time pressure. Well, at naked short selling, we could do it in a week. I told you earlier this week: a really important law is gonna be introduced in a week. I can't explain all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u16	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u17	What I want is a decent journey. That's not this. As I have said, I am looking at this with the greatest disgust, but I do realize that we need to think about whether we can perhaps look at that pardon in a certain way. For the moment, however, as has been the case, we are not yet convinced of the usefulness and necessity. If we were to do anything, we would like a proper law to be sent to the Chamber so that we can talk about something fundamental and how it should be done and what role and position the victims and the relatives should have in doing so. They do have a life sentence, and we can talk about it a little longer than four minutes, I think. How is the information of the institution weighted? I'm a little freaked out. People who have been inside the doors of the DJI for 25 years should then be taken out because a test has to be done. They are then taken to the Pieter Baan Centre, where they look at the situation, and then we have a judgment. I don't think that should ever be possible. I want the reports of the facilities to have a better position in the overall trajectory. That should at least be the case. We need to think about how you do that, because people often don't feel that it is so useful. How exactly is the importance of society weighed? That is still unclear to me, and I think that is important. Then there's the trick with a little re-socialization and reintegration. This morning I heard an expert on this subject. It is also unclear to me how that is to be done. What does the Secretary of State want with that? Short and good, way too short and good, Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group has very, very serious objections to what is going on. We understand that maybe we should look at the grace. I believe that this could also be the answer. If that is not enough, we need to discuss it in detail on the basis of a proper legislative proposal. I would like to have that at least, with the longer speaking time that goes with it, because with these four minutes of speaking time, which I am already far beyond, we have, in my opinion, seriously failed people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. I have not had such a debate in principle as I have this evening. The emotion didn't get in until a little later, but as far as I'm concerned. This debate is about human images, humanity and the rule of law. It then helps to just start with history and the facts. It's been a while: in 1870 the death penalty was converted into life imprisonment. Even then, the debate was held as to whether life is not more severe than the death penalty. Even then, the Chamber and the government found the following. I quote Minister Van Lilaar at the time: 'I wish that in her application order and discipline will be maintained, but I desire it to be applied humanely, and torment is unworthy of man'. That's how it was after that. In the 110 years thereafter, from 1870 to 1980, 66 life sentences were imposed. The average time spent in prison is 23 years. Now there are 31 people in prison for life. The conclusion you have to draw is that life in practice has never been life in life. It is a myth, a myth created by former Minister Donner. For decades, no pardon has been granted. Judges have begun to warn, more and more, that as things stand, it is against the law and against fundamental rights; we are not going to punish the law. A while ago, judges said: we're still putting it on, but know that we're reluctant to do this. Judges stand against the wall with their backs, I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg, because they want to punish appropriately. So indeed, should there be a Dutroux case, that judge is facing an incredible dilemma. He wants to impose a life sentence, but he realizes that both the ECHR and the Supreme Court say that the current regime in the Netherlands is against the law. As far as I am concerned, it is therefore also about principles. Principles only hurt when you have to apply them against your feelings. This is, of course, always the case for people who have been for life. After all, these are terrible crimes for which you get them. Principles also become worth something when you apply them when your feeling says that it is not the intention. The first principle is that the judge in the Netherlands determines what the applicable law is. You can't ignore that. The appearance is created that there is still a lot of interpretation possible, but that is simply not the case. Last Wednesday, the Supreme Court argued extensively and referred to it as being against the law. The second principle is that you don't treat someone who acted beastly yourself. You lose your morality and you lower yourself to the level you despise yourself so much. As far as I am concerned, the right to hope is a fundamental right. What does that mean? In order to preserve lifelong life, a periodic test must be carried out and we must follow the ECHR and the Supreme Court. A first step has been taken by the Secretary of State, and that is good, but continue by taking it out of politics as well. Otherwise, nothing changes when parties such as PVV or SGP are in charge, and the doors just open when GroenLinks is there is no spokesperson from that group present, and the Secretary of State delivers. It's not a political decision. Put it in the hands of professionals. It's very concrete. What objective criteria is the committee's test going to meet? What regime will apply to the 27 people who have been punished for life and who have been punished for increasing the maximum temporary penalty? How is the ten people still stuck under the old pardon policy dealt with? How is the requirement that the decision should start resocialisation after 25 years at the earliest? I'll say it myself, if that's appropriate. After all, the moment you know that the door doesn't open after 25 years, I don't think it's nice to give people hope for that either. When's the second step, the change of law? I understand the Secretary of State says under pressure of time we'll probably start under the current law, but it needs to be changed to a judicial test.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u19	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u20	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this first step, because it serves a life sentence. Otherwise, it won't be imposed anymore. The Labour Party also believes that in some cases life should indeed be lifelong. But also take the second step. Respect the rule of law and humanity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u21	I sense many similarities between Mr Recourt's speech and my own, but I would like to know whether the PvdA sees this as a solution to the problem of lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u22	I think Mrs. Swinkels means by "this" the Secretary of State's plan. Yes, because that first step, as I call it, expresses and gives priority to that right to hope. There wasn't, and there is with this plan. That's good, but the second step just needs to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u23	There has just been extensive discussion about when a plan is Strasbourg proof. Mr Recourt himself has just said that judges are saying at the moment: it is against the law, it is against human law. How can Mr Recourt say that this is a first step in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u24	Again, I've divided it into two principles. One: the right to justice and two: respect for the rule of law. The moment the European judge, as well as the national supreme court, says: you have to explain the law, you have to do it. Step one is a long way in the right direction with that Committee of Inquiry. Step two is not satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr. Van der Staaij? Or Mrs. Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u26	Although it was not my turn, Mr Van der Staaij often gives me priority. I would like to know whether the Labour Party does not want a proper legal system at all, in which the various interests are well described, in particular the interests of the victims, the survivors and society. So that you shape that in a different way than just a policy rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u27	Yes, I want a legal arrangement, but I also see the time pressure under which the Secretary of State is. I agree that he will start now, but I do not agree that it will remain so. It is true that I want to see not only the position of the victims, but also the criteria for checking and, in fact, all those matters that we can discuss together and on which we say that they should be properly regulated and brought into the law. However, I think it is a good thing that we are getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u28	But if the Secretary of State doesn't want that, and if I have a motion stating that I want a proper legal arrangement, do I get the signature of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u29	I said very clearly: this is step one. Step two is a law. That's the law we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u30	I have listened carefully to Mr Recourt, but is he not actually saying that instead of life imprisonment, there should be a temporary prison sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u31	No, I have said time and again that the Labour Party also wants to keep for life, but in such a way that the right to hope remains. The right to hope is different from the right to freedom. As far as my party is concerned, that should not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u32	I really wonder if it's humane that you say to a life sentence: there's a possibility in the law somewhere, namely the right to hope, but you shouldn't count on ever getting out. What do you communicate? What kind of weird kind of mercy do you practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u33	We don't say, "Don't count on ever getting out." Of course you can get out, but that depends on the case and the person. Honestly, I miss that mercy at the SGP. The position I have heard from that party so far is mainly an eye for an eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u34	You may now respond, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u35	Yes, because this is indeed a form of entrapment. I'm talking about mercy and justice. An eye for an eye would look very different in the case of multiple crimes. But if you look at the sea of suffering caused precisely by the serious crimes, which puts the hopes of so many people in the ground, I think it is right from the point of view of justice to say: you should not count on being able to return to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mrs Van Toorenburg also mentioned this: weighing up the suffering of victims. That is completely impossible, because that suffering is often unfathomable. I have seen that many times, and I can say a lot about that, but we agree on that. The suffering weighs against punishments, those are non-communicating vessels; it's never enough at the time you say it must be equally heavy. You can't do that as a government, because the border for the government doesn't reach that far, and I'm okay with that, too. That's why I said, and then I'm not even directly concerned about the interests of the perpetrators, that as a government you should never lower yourself to what you find so horrible, because then you lose all your moral authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u37	Reference is made to a judgment of the Supreme Court of July of this year. Mr Recourt began with history. I would like to take up the history of the case law of the European Court of Justice and that of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court said in 2009 and 2011 that it is true that we comply with Article 3 of the ECHR, because we have the possibility of pardon here. Then the Vinter judgment came against the United Kingdom, but the Netherlands is not bound by it. Everyone always ignores that for the sake of convenience. It has been said that there must be a re-evaluation. Indeed, in July of this year, the Supreme Court says that this review must be carried out, otherwise we will not impose life imprisonment, the case will be held, we will wait for political decision-making. However, the Supreme Court is completely ignorant of the fact that in 2015 the European Court of Justice also delivered judgment against the United Kingdom in the Hutchinson case, which I mentioned in my term. The United Kingdom has once again been right in this respect. To sum up, the European Court of Human Rights itself is swarming and the Supreme Court itself is not consistent. Then why are we going to call for the Secretary of State to amend all this, because it is no longer ECHR proof and should not be imposed for life? I can't explain that. Does Mr Recourt include these statements in his decision-making? Does he not agree with my group that the Secretary of State is coming to a decision far too soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u38	No, I don't share that opinion. It is always difficult to interpret the European Court in a case that is not about the Netherlands. It is possible, but it is difficult, because it is about the English situation and I do not know exactly what that situation is like. I know that the European Court of Justice has delivered an opinion in the Dutch situation, namely in the Murray case. Last Wednesday, the Supreme Court delivered a verdict, which I have with me in part. It says in the recitals: remark deserves the following: in the Murray case, and so on, and then it literally says that it is contrary to Article 3 of the ECHR, point. That's our highest national court. Again, you can often have noise and differences of interpretation, but here I find it really hard to keep that up. In fact, that's impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u39	In the Murray case, it was not said that our system was incorrect, but that it was not possible to assess whether this gentleman, who died during that procedure, was eligible for re-socialization because he was denied psychiatric treatment. That was a pre-stage. The re-evaluation was not carried out. This does not at all mean that our system does not comply with Article 3 of the ECHR. In that individual situation there was indeed conflict, because he was denied psychiatric treatment. But that is something other than saying that there can be no longer a life sentence here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u40	Remembering psychiatric treatment was in the context of possible resocialisation. Resocialisation basically means that the door may open earlier, as Mrs Helder also knows. The Murray case can only be seen in the key to the execution of life imprisonment. Again, I repeat: I worked on Aruba and this was an Aruban matter. The warden was almost beaten to death by Mr. Murray. I know these things. It's not that I have such sympathy for those offenders. It's really about how you stand in life and how you feel about treating people, even when they do terrible things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u41	Mr. Chairman. The mother of a raped and murdered seven-year-old girl said this: my daughter didn't get a second chance, and the unsub shouldn't get one either. Anyone with a little moral awareness would endorse this story. Horrible serial killers, untouched terrorists and murdering paedophiles deserve only one thing: life imprisonment. Of course, lifelong life must always be lifelong, as two thirds of the Dutch want. This principle must not be contested in any way. Why should the unsub be allowed to get paroled while next of kin are in prison for life? We are asking this question today to the VVD, because its Secretary of State wants to give leave to life-long punishes and thus effectively abolishes this sentence. It's a hard blow to the next of kin' faces. Why the hell is the VVD doing this? First of all, it is doing so because Europe wants to do so. Again, the VVD prefers a European dictatorship over the safety of the Dutch population. It's an embarrassing display. It is again a broken VVD promise. It's another knee-slapping for the Labour Party. We could have expected it from a party that previously promised the electorate that Volkert van der Graaf would never get parole. It's time for another political sound, for law and order. VNL says: protect the Netherlands; choose the next of kin and not the serial killers. Life is a life sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr. Chairman. Some people commit such horrendous crimes that in the opinion of the VVD they should be locked up for life: behind bars for life and never back in our society. They have committed these acts in their right mind, for otherwise they would have been tbs, a form of coercion or I know what was imposed on them. Let us not forget that the next of kin and the victims also have a life sentence. Colleagues have already referred to it. How terrible it must be for those relatives to have to follow this whole discussion on their way here. Every time the discussion takes place: to what extent is life imprisonment humane or not? Surely we cannot imagine that these next of kin would suddenly run the risk of encountering the perpetrator on the street and that our society would no longer be protected from these types of people? I say honestly that I would like nothing more than to say loud and clear, saying that life without any adjustment must indeed always be a life sentence. I would like nothing more, but we are in a situation in which murderers, child molesters and other serious criminals who have to be locked up for life are at risk of getting away from their punishment because that life imprisonment is no longer imposed. Indeed, the court said in 2013 that the actual life imprisonment would be inhumane without that prospect of that release. Our highest judicial body in July of this year said that after 25 years you should look at that punishment and that perspective should then be possible. The result is that there may be judges who believe that someone deserves a life sentence, but that this sentence is not imposed, however desirable and as much as I might like it. We may be able to hold on to that punishment, but if it is not imposed, it will not be of any use in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mr Van Oosten is standing here proclaiming the story as if it is a really good VVD story, but every VVD knows of course that it is bullshit he is talking about here with a lot of words. No one's gonna believe him about that. My question is this. The previous spokesperson for security and justice of the VVD, the current Minister Van der Steur, has made it very clear that there is no need for any prospect of release at all; he is already there and is called pardon. Why was the VVD turned again at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u44	I am just saying to Mr Bontes that the Supreme Court has given a ruling and has said that this is a violation of the human rights treaty. You can find all kinds of things, but the reality is that the situation is much worse if we don't change anything. If it is what Mr Bontes probably wants and nothing is changed, then a person in this system will be sentenced to 30 years and will be released after 20 years anyway. I find that indigestible. So I take my responsibility to organise it in such a way that people can stay in prison for life and that people in this country can stay in prison for life. The Secretary of State is a matter of proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u45	It is nonsense what Mr Van Oosten is saying here. It doesn't make any sense. He doesn't believe in that story either, but he has to say it because there is a coalition with the Labour Party. This really makes no sense and I am curious how Mr Van Oosten will explain this to the VVD-chooser in March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u46	If I have to interpret that as a question, my answer is that we will see it together. Mr Bontes knows what my message is. I'm telling you this message now, and she won't be any different tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u47	I hear Mr Van Oosten say in a high tone that we can't do otherwise, and I don't know what else. They don't always say for nothing: don't raise your voice but improve your argument. I just didn't hear the argument. Suppose we go along with Mr Van Oosten's exercise: we must, because otherwise we will not be imposing for life on the most horrible people who have committed terrible acts. What guarantees do we have that this will happen if the system proposed by the Secretary of State is put in place? Immediately after that, I heard sounds that that is not enough either, because that is what Forum Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong Lifelong What am I gonna do with the first test on those 25 years, because then nothing's happened? So it's just gonna happen that from a certain point of time, individuals are gonna force them to get re-socialization activities, and then life imprisonment is screwed over. Does Mr Van Oosten agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mrs Helder asks me how I feel about the Life Forum. I don't like it. Forum Lifelong must find what it finds. That's fine. I don't agree. We still have until 5 September 2017 to come to something, otherwise we will simply lose that life sentence. The Supreme Court, our highest court, has said so, whether we like it or not. That's what I'm worried about. That is why I say, please, let us organise such a test in a responsible manner, so that we can keep the possibility of locking up people who deserve it for life in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u49	We can pack, because the Supreme Court takes over the legislative task here. That is exactly what Mr Van Oosten says: no separation of powers, no independent justice, no legislative power to which the Secretary of State also belongs. Now I raise my voice, too, Mr. Chairman, because I think this is the best. We are the legislature here. Life is life, this is just in Article 10 of the Criminal Code. As long as the law has not changed, that punishment can simply be imposed, as Mrs Van Toorenburg said. The Supreme Court has often deviated from its own position. Let's keep our patience a little bit!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u50	I would find it a very big risk to follow that hypothesis. If you add up so many statements in succession and if you read what the Supreme Court is saying, I can't explain to the victims and the next of kin that someone who commits the most horrible murders will be convicted for up to 30 years and will be released for 20 years. I find that indigestible. I believe that we should keep this measure of punishment, organise it and adapt it so that people can stay locked up for life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u51	I'll back Mrs. Helder up anyway. The VVD Group is very easily behind the choice of judges on the way of legislation. As a co-legislator, can we not say something more self-conscious about this as a legislator? The Supreme Court says it has already seen a letter from Secretary of State Dijkhoff stating that they are thinking about changing things. Is it not the lack of clarity and doubt with the legislator who gives the judge the room here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u52	It is our job to ensure that life imprisonment is maintained. The legal reality is that there are human rights treaties, that there is a human rights court and that the High Council has made statements. The only thing I do not want is to ignore those statements, because the result is what I have just outlined. I can't explain it to victims or next of kin. I say: organize it now as the Secretary of State gives it to us, and I will say something about it in a moment, so that there will be no right to freedom, but there will be a test so that it is compatible with all those criticisms, and people can remain locked up for life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr Van Oosten emphasizes that there is no right to freedom, but it is the intention that this should provide a perspective for the judges to consider it important that people have a chance of being actually released.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u54	Perspective is not a guarantee of anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u55	That is not a guarantee of anything, but if it does not actually lead to people being released regularly, then the next step is to say that it is a wash nose. You can draw that. Surely this is a huge support for the development in which a life sentence is actually converted into a temporary prison sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u56	No, life imprisonment should stay. That's what I stand for. However, we are dealing with these statements. You can't ignore them, no matter how much you might want them to be. Therefore, you need to make adjustments so that those things can be united: to install a test from which that perspective follows, while not guaranteeing release.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u57	When I hear the VVD talking like this, I'm actually a little shocked. It's like being told about the highest judge that we should just do what he says, when we don't really want to do it. Does the VVD have no respect whatsoever for the ECHR and its demands, and for the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u58	With all due respect, I don't understand where Mrs. Swinkels is getting this question. I have the highest and highest respect for all the courts in this country and within Europe. So that's not the point. The point is that, as a politician, I feel a responsibility for victims and relatives who face horrific suffering, and to whom I am not explained that, if we do not change anything, those people will simply be released after 20 years. I'll take that responsibility. And I come to that because I cannot and will not ignore those rulings of the highest courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u59	I can follow your argument, that you take that responsibility, but is the Secretary of State's plan for you a first step or should there be more?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u60	I think that's more than enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u61	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u62	I was about halfway through my speech, Mr President. Let me be honest again: the VVD is not awake from that supposed missing perspective for lifelong punishment. Victims and relatives, as has been said before, have no perspective either. That mouse hole of grace, according to our perspective, is enough. Again, we are not making our society safer by holding on to a punishment that is not imposed. The VVD therefore opts for a solution that keeps these kind of ruthless perpetrators behind bars for as long as possible. I told you, if the judge is gonna avoid the life sentence, what we're watching happens, an unsub is gonna be sentenced to a maximum of 30 years. In practice, after 20 years, he is at large. If we make adjustments and after 25 years look at whether there should be a prospect of release, then at least that person will be behind bars for another five years and possibly even more, and hopefully, I will say that much longer. That is precisely what the VVD is about: to leave these serious criminals as long as possible. I'll come to a conclusion. In concrete terms, I say to the Secretary of State that the process of review may be as long as possible after 25 years; and also as severe as possible, with heavy criteria to meet that re-socialization. There is also a need to involve as many people as possible in the assessment and, in particular, in relation to the situation of the families and victims themselves. Let me just say once more: this re-socialization must not become a right, especially if it is to come to a release. I will conclude by saying that the VVD also welcomes the review of the maximum penalty for manslaughter and murder. Anyone who has such acts on his conscience cannot be removed from our society for long enough. That's our goal. We are going to achieve this by being realistic, rather than shouting tough and not achieving anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u63	Mr. Chairman. Life is a life sentence. That is the starting point of the law. It is a deliberate choice of the legislator to make this punishment possible. Minister Van Lilaar of Justice, who in 1870 proposed to impose a life sentence instead of the death penalty, he was quoted this evening, saying: "There are crimes so horrible and so dangerous for general rest and security, that public order progresses to remove those who are guilty of them from civil society continuously, without this punishment, no matter how terrible, can be regarded as too severe and therefore unjust chastisement."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u64	It is striking that we both begin with the legal history and draw a completely different conclusion from that. I would like to remind you of the facts once again. The average length of life imprisonment during that period was about 23 years; even more, that was 100 years after that period. In fact, there was no longer time. How can you say that life was always meant to be a life sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u65	I looked at the way in which it was dealt with in the legislative text and debates at that time. The idea was that it would be a life sentence. This may have to do with the fact that crime has hardened over time. We have also had serious cases of war criminals and the like in the period after 1870, in which even the death penalty has been applied. That was still possible in the period after 1870 for very, very serious crimes. The death penalty was then completely abolished, including in other forms of law. Life is now truly the most severe punishment we have, in all situations. I still believe that the legislator's point of departure is right, namely that lifelong punishment can be justified and appropriate, given the gravity of the offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u66	I dispute that this has been the starting point of the legislator. The idea was that you could give someone a life sentence, but always with in mind the perspective of ending that sentence. That was even true for those sentenced to death after the Second World War; I quote those war criminals. Their sentence has been converted into life and ultimately into grace, with the exception of three. Even with those terrible... well, I don't have to say what terrible things happened in the war, but even for these people, the perspective was grace at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u67	In the Nuremberg statements it appeared that far from everyone was merely a matter of imprisonment. The point is that there are crimes that are so hideous and dangerous that public order is constantly seeking to remove those who are guilty of them from society; that was the wording of Minister Van Lilaar of Justice, whom I just referred to. At that time there was criticism and people said: it cannot be done, it is inhumane. It has been said: no, in certain cases it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr Van der Staaij is much better educated in history than I am, but I would like to tell him the following passage from a 1975 letter. It's a letter from the State Secretary of Justice from that time. What's in it? "During the detention of a person sentenced to life imprisonment, a time has come when there has been such a development that the return to society must be prepared on the basis of a treatment plan. When that preparation is completed, a decision will have to be taken." Can I have a reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u69	The best response would be to refer to the words put forward by Reverend Abma of the SGP Group in 1972, three years before, in the debate on the Three of Breda. This was precisely the field of tension between mercy and justice. He warned seriously that he would too easily belt mercy from the living flesh of people who still suffer the misery of those crimes every day. In short, the possibility of grace has always been in the system. We never know what very special circumstances may arise...... but the starting point is that you do not choose a temporary punishment, but really choose a life sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u70	Perhaps Mr Van der Staaij will come to it. I would like to draw attention to the latest case law, which is more than one ruling by the Supreme Court, which actually makes it de facto impossible for judges to impose life for life where it is necessary. In itself, that should remain possible, even according to D66. Is Mr Van der Staaij going to speak about this or is he going to speak about it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u71	I do come to that at the end of my speech. I think it's important. I think it is death in the jar for this kind of debate to be concerned only with the interpretation of the rulings of the European Court of Justice and so on, without first getting to the question of what is actually our political judgment. We are also legislators here. The choice of penalties can be appropriate, I think, first of all, to the legislators in the various countries. We adopted the European Treaty together here in 1950. We said yes to that. Article 3 of that Convention stated that no one should be subjected to inhumane treatment. As far as I know, no one at the time had the idea that we would have to adjust our lifelong scheme, because it was contrary to that European Treaty. It is a worrying development that, by expanding case law on all these articles, we are increasingly restricting national powers as legislators, which are never intended and foreseen in any way. For me, that is a reason to say: there should be no misunderstanding that we should eventually add ourselves to the rule of law, which is the rule of law, but it may well be a bit of sanding between the state powers, and it should also be the case that we, as legislators, consider very strongly what we ourselves think of it in a legal political sense. I have already said that these multiple murders, deliberate acts with a chance of repetition, those serious crimes that have caused a sea of suffering, are not acts of barbarism, but unfortunately they can also take place here and now. One example is a terrorist who shoots 30, 40 or 50 people in cold blood. That's what we're talking about. We are talking about those situations that may also be covered by this legislation. That is why we do not want to morter at the principle of life-snake life-long. We must not play mercy against justice. We agree that revision should always be possible. That's what the law says now. We also agree that there is a pardon scheme that can be invoked in special cases. But we do not agree with the sneaking movement of turning life imprisonment into a temporary sentence. If I read the proposal and the discussion on it correctly, I still think that it is a bit of a two-way street. On the one hand it says "life hose is life" but on the other hand it explicitly provides for release after 25 years. There's tension in that. I'm afraid the effect is unclear and ambiguous. Or you can make sure that the prisoner gets hope of release while the chance of release is minimal. Or there will be a practice that makes the life sentence a farce, because eventually you will be released after some time. We both think that's undesirable. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that legislation should be introduced if we want to change this matter. That can't be done this way. If we accept life imprisonment as a just sentence, it must not be a form but a reality. I will now indicate how we, as a SGP, look at it from our role as legislators. I recognise that the European Court is putting pressure on life imprisonment. The Supreme Court is actually doing a little bit more on top of that. He goes along with it and fills it out. I would add that the primacy of the legislator is also at stake here. First of all, I would like to make an attempt to see what the parties really think about it in a political sense and how far we will get. The European Treaty does not oppose life imprisonment, it does not say anything about it. That is why I am curious as to how Secretary of State Dijkhoff now responds to what Mr Dijkhoff said four years ago about the role of the European Court of Justice to the Minister of Justice. At the time, he said: Minister, you should now also work within the Committee of Ministers to clarify the Convention so that the scope of assessment is not unnecessarily restricted. Has this been done on this subject? You can see that this text is really only very brief and that the judges do not have the wisdom to indicate what would be right at this time. Then it is very important what the Committee of Ministers and thus legislators say and think about it. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see to indicate more firmly that Article 3 does not have to bite with the actual life sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u72	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u73	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, we could see that things were getting spicy and that emotions were getting high. I understand that. I also understand the many dilemmas. 'Cause I have it myself. Let me be honest: I would not have stood here with a proposal if I should not have done it on the basis of case law. I'll come back to that later. I think it is crucial to preserve the lifelong punishment that we have for our society. Unfortunately, there are people in the Netherlands who commit crimes so gruesome that your first, second, third and fourth thoughts are: we must never see them on the streets again. We must protect our society by keeping these figures locked up for as long as possible. That is a responsibility that I think we feel and have here together. You can say, of course, life is inhumane to the perpetrator. But there are really people who commit crimes that are so horrible that you can barely talk about it in detail and only refer to it in a general sense, because you don't want to repeat it all. You really think it's appropriate that someone like that stays in prison for life. Then, of course, you can say: why do you come up with a proposal? Then just don't change anything, because we're in prison for life. However, we must also respect the rule of law and everyone's role in it. As legislators, we have the primacy. We decide how it goes, but we decide many things at the same time. We decide that life imprisonment exists. We also provide that we respect the ECHR and human rights. We also state that in our society, the final word on the interpretation and implementation of these matters lies with the courts. I don't want to propose what I'm proposing, but if I don't, I can keep saying "the judges are gonna figure it out, they're gonna say whatever they want, but I'm not gonna propose any adjustments," but then I'm gonna dive away for my responsibility. I am convinced that the result will be that the judges will say: we are not going to impose life imprisonment, or at least in many cases where we would otherwise have done so, no longer do so. As a result, people who have committed those atrocious crimes are guaranteed to be released into society over time and face us again. The cabinet really didn't go ice cream over one night before it took this step. The way in which we propose it now responds to the objections and maintains the measure. I can't guarantee a hundred percent that anyone who gets a life sentence always blows out his last breath in jail, so to speak. I can guarantee that we will keep the instrument. In advance, you say "this is lifelong," but you keep looking at the case. If after all these years someone is still a threat to society, you can hold on to the person concerned for life. I want the judge to impose life imprisonment again as soon as possible, to remove the pause button of the Supreme Court and to impose lifelong sentences, if necessary, so that we can protect the people, society and the Netherlands from those who still pose a danger to society at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u74	I would like to mention a special case: Mohammed Bouyeri. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that Mohammed Bouyeri will not be released prematurely on the basis of this regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u75	Lady Justitia is blindfolded for a reason. We don't make rules about one person here. Everyone who has a life sentence gets a re-evaluation, just like everyone who has a life sentence, already has the opportunity to ask for pardon and possibly get out. However, we have the tools to keep people in prison for life if they still pose a threat to society or otherwise are not fit to have any leave. It is not for me to comment now on matters that have to be assessed first by an advisory board. We need to know our place in that, although my first reflex would be to give another answer. But you can't do that as a driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u76	The Secretary of State is clear: he cannot guarantee that Mohammed Bouyeri will not be released early. I think that's really outrageous. This can't be happening. This is such a blow to the face of Dutch society. It can't be sold; I think it's a real shame that someone like that has a chance of parole. I really can't live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u77	Mr Bontes cannot give that guarantee either, not even if he was in my position. That is the uncomfortable fact that we are dealing with. Just keep repeating what you would like and what you wish for, you can, but that doesn't make it true yet. I want that life sentence to stay there for people who commit horrible crimes. I want us to keep testing it. On the one hand, a person can take steps towards reintegration, but on the other hand, a test will sometimes show that people are not able to do so and that that lifelong punishment that has ever been imposed continues to be imposed with all the right and reason and that there is no vision of steps towards reintegration, leave or even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u78	I hear the Secretary of State say he's doing this now because he has no choice. He specifically referred to the European Convention on Human Rights. I am referring, in this connection, to a ruling against the United Kingdom. In the Hutchinson case, the European Court of Human Rights said that national authorities deal with questions of interpretation. The Secretary of State is also a national authority, so he can also say: I do not care about those politicians in the gown, I am now Secretary of State myself and I maintain what it is like now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u79	In that sense, I have a choice, but with that choice I would stick my head in the sand and watch patiently how lifelong a dead letter becomes in the code of conduct and is no longer applied. In the Hutchinson case, the ECHR clarified the case of the English court which had come up with a new authoritative interpretation. There is indeed a wide margin within the ECHR in how you apply it, also for this purpose, but it has not returned to the settled case law on life imprisonment: a perspective of release must be maintained and national law must provide a re-evaluation. Perhaps even more important is that there has not been one statement on the basis of which we then thought that we should adapt. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked us not to do this too soon. She referred to the cabinet in 2009 that then said: there is case law, life is in trouble, maybe we need to change it. In fact, after that, what Mrs Helder is now asking was: be stubborn, go against it and keep going against it. That has happened for seven years, until you come to a point where there is a series of statements, including from our own Dutch Supreme Court, which really leaves nothing to be desired for clarity, so that you now have the choice to either remain stubborn, but then the possibility to impose lifelong or make an adjustment that allows you to continue to impose lifelong so that we can maintain that protection measure for society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u80	Stubborn is something other than being steadfast. I prefer to be firm, because the case law of the European Court of Human Rights also covers Article 3 of the ECHR. In the Hutchinson case, the United Kingdom simply got right from the European Court of Human Rights, which said: you can maintain your system as you wish. Ergo: it ended up on the line adopted by the ECHR in the Kafkaris case against Cyprus in 2008. It was said that lifelong life would not be contrary to Article 3 of the ECHR if the sentence could be reduced according to law and in fact. That is what the Supreme Court said in 2009 and 2011: we comply with, because that is our system of pardon. So stability paid off in England and I really believe that steadfastness could pay off here too. I really hope that the Secretary of State will show that determination in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u81	Life will last, too. So far that is in line with Mrs Helder's statement. I do not propose to deviate from the pardon system, nor do I propose any modification of that system. However, we have seen in other cases that there should not only be a system on paper, but that there should also be a requirement that there should in practice be some insight into the fact that such a review is actually taking place. That is why I say: I will keep the pardon system, only the re-socialization will start as soon as you start jail time and a committee will consider after 25 years whether reintegration activities are appropriate. If that is not the case, it is said when the next moment is to look at it again. If so, it will be said when further steps will be taken. To put it bluntly, I did not use the case law to propose a huge change. I understand the criticism of others from the Chamber. Indeed, I do not do more than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u82	In fact, I do not think the Secretary of State is doing enough, which would be strictly necessary. Indeed, the desire to make this policy human rights-compliant does not really fall apart. My main concern is whether this is enough. Is this gonna keep us alive for life? I don't think so. The decision on release must ultimately be left to the courts. Within those 25 years, personal development must be carried out so that a review can take place after that time. That's not what the Secretary of State is proposing right now. Can he respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u83	If Mr Van Nispen doesn't see it coming off, it's not because I don't like human rights. Mr Van der Staaij has rightly pointed out that you can have an opinion on this. My view is that the system we had met the demands of human rights. My view is also that when a judge says something about it, it has more authority than when I say something about specific cases. That's what I have to relate to. I will come back to the role of the judge in the system in detail. The judgments do not state that the decision must be taken by a judge. That's not in the statements. We have examined this in detail. There are activities with one person. Resocialization begins immediately. On the basis of what has happened in those 25 years, you can have the advisory college give a good opinion on whether or not there is a need for reintegration, which means that you are not going to take that step. I think this fits in with the statements. I imagine there's a feeling it's only just fitting in. That's what I've been looking for. I do not think we need to go any further, at least I do not have that intrinsic wish that is purely necessary to maintain the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u84	I am concerned that this proposal for adaptation is not included in the statements and that this will mean that the Secretary of State's policy proposal will no longer be imposed for a lifetime after it has been implemented. We will return to the specific elements such as the judicial test. I did read it in the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights. I call it the judicial review. I think it's in paragraph 100 of the Murray judgment. We shall come back to that. In what way has the Secretary of State ensured that this fits within the lines and that lifelong remains a real option, even in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u85	I didn't look at those statements on my own. The advantage of my office is that there are a lot more intelligent lawyers for that than I would expect to be myself. You're arguing about the statements and you're also having external conversations about them. There are those who wish those statements to go much further and give them a certain interpretation. Mrs Helder and Mrs Van Toorenburg also spoke about it. I don't mean to say it's Chinese, but you can always interpret court rulings. You look at what it says and how it relates to what is being done in other countries that the Court has said can be done. Then I come to the weighing up that my proposal fits exactly into it. I hope to convince you of this when I look at the elements step by step. First there is a general question from Mr Van der Staaij. Life will last for life, but there will be a prospect of release. If a life sentence is imposed, it is possible to hold someone for life. I can't guarantee this is true. Someone doesn't have the right or the knowledge that one day he'll get out. That really depends on how a person develops and on other things. The main thing is that he can remain a danger to society. There's gonna be a perspective on release. This is also in principle now in the sense that a request for pardon can be made and that it can be decided that the person concerned should be released early. What do we do now? We're shaping that perspective. It does not only exist in theory, but we also guarantee that it will be implemented in practice once. We do not do that by guaranteeing that the convicted person gets good news, but by guaranteeing that after 25 a committee will look at how the convicted person has behaved in the past 25 years, where he stands and how far he is. There will also be a psych exam and a victim investigation. After that, the Committee shall consider the matter. Is it appropriate that this person is currently offered reintegration activities? If that is not the case, it is also a very good input for a possible request for pardon. If you don't get re-integration, grace is a long way away. If you have been able to re-integration, a better judgment can also be given on the request for pardon. This is now also critical; it would be a bit of a catch 22. On the one hand, a pardon request says that there is no chance of him being released, because I do not know how he would behave outside of prison. After all, I haven't seen any results of his reintegration. On the other hand, a request for reintegration says that we are not getting started, because I do not see why this man should ever be released. Just to get out of that knot, this periodic review can be important. This could give material substance to a perspective, not so much a perspective of release, but a perspective of review. I come to the questions about the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Mrs Swinkels asked why it was only after 25 years that it was necessary to start testing the need for reintegration. Mrs Swinkels wondered whether, according to the ECHR, much more could be said after 25 years and whether certain activities should not be started earlier. It follows from case law that Member States are primarily responsible for deciding when to carry out the re-evaluation. The ECHR does, however, indicate that there is clear international support for a review at the latest 25 years after the sentence has been imposed. Let me say this separately from the discussion when you start counting in this context. Do you count from the irrevocable imposition? In the proposal I make, 25 years after detention. Of course, there's already a difference. The 25-year deadline is therefore an important guideline, but not an absolute standard. For example, in 2014, the ECHR did not consider the review to be contrary to the ECHR after 26 years in France. Hence, I believe that offering reintegration after 25 years is certainly sustainable in the light of the statements of the ECHR. This is certainly true because resocialisation is a standard part of detention. This also fits well in the Dutch system of sanctions, given the highest maximum temporary penalties we now know and the early release that goes with it. You'll be considerably later than when you get the maximum temporary sentence. Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mrs Helder and Mrs Swinkels have asked whether this fits into these conditions and whether this is enough. The European Court says that lifelong punishment should not be taken away from the chance of ever getting out. So it is not said that lifelong punishments should be released, but you should not set up the system in such a way that freeing them is without chance in advance. Over time, there must be a re-evaluation and there must be a review of whether there are changes and progress in re-socialisation in such a way that the punishment can no longer be continued. We do this in the Netherlands through the pardon procedure. That route itself does not have to change on the basis of case law. But in order to form a sound judgment in that pardon procedure, this periodic test is aimed at reintegration very helpful. I have just said that this test would also fall within the limits of the case law. This test thus also adds to the somewhat abstract and criticised theoretical aspect of a perspective on re-evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u86	Maybe I didn't get the Secretary of State right. However, I read in the Vinter judgment that it is not only the re-evaluation moment that is at issue, but that re-socialisation activities must be started from the outset. It must be done at the time of the imposition of the sentence by the judge. Then it starts. That is one of the points of the Vinter judgment. It is then necessary to check whether the life sentence imposed at that time is in accordance with Article 3 of the ECHR. At that point, therefore, there must be a prospect of release. I can't really read that any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u87	Resocialization starts immediately with detention. Re-integration is another story. In addition, the advice of the advisory college is included in my proposal to do so after 25 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u88	With the difference between reintegration and socialisation, Pels Rijcken, the national attorney, has also tried. However, that has already been wiped off the table by the Dutch judge. We're talking about socialization here. It doesn't matter if you call it reintegration. In the end, it's all about allowing someone to return to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u89	I don't think it's that shady. If Mrs. Swinkels wants to know when resocialization will begin, it will start as soon as detention begins. Resocialization activities are then offered. In our system, we distinguish between what we call resocialization and what we call reintegration. Re-integration also raises issues of perspective on leave. That doesn't have to be there in the first 25 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u91	Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Swinkels asked whether that judicial review was therefore not required. For this purpose, a broad margin of appreciation per Member State applies. Of course, there's a hint that, if you do that through a judge, it's definitely gonna be okay. It has not been said that that is a demand. It has been clearly stated that the pardon scheme can also suffice. That is stated in paragraph 99 in the Murray case, as it is noted here. Also in the judgment of 5 July, the Hoge Raad states that case-law of the European Court of Justice does not mean that such provision can only consist of a statutory periodic review or review by a judge. The Supreme Court does stress that that is another hint that if you do this to the court, it is an important sign or guarantee that enforcement is in accordance with Article 3 of the ECHR. You can see what has been said before: an absolute necessity is not read in it. Well, it's hinted that if you do, you're all on the safe side. Here again we come to the discussion that my proposal is not far from the line that is minimally required.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u92	Mrs. Swinkels, a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u93	That is why I have to ask the following question. The Secretary of State just said that if the judge says anything about it, it has more authority than I do as Secretary of State. Still, he doesn't want to dedicate this test to the judge. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u94	The judge has so much authority, I listen to him very carefully. It's going to be a bit of a meta-level discussion, but the judge didn't consider that the judgment on the re-evaluation itself should lie with the judge. That is why I am listening more precisely, not than Mrs Swinkels, but only in that opinion. I am also looking at what exactly is in case law which is absolutely necessary to comply with the European Treaty. Then it can also be done in this way, with this interpretation of the pardon procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u95	However, the Minister also attaches importance to the fact that the advisory body, which he will probably still be discussing, is an authoritative body. He trusts that. But who can you trust more and, in the words of the minister of just now, what state power has more authority in this respect as an independent judicial institution than the judiciary? Let me ask you one more time: would it not be better to dedicate this re-evaluation to the independent judiciary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u96	I have always had the view of the trias politician, of the dispersal of powers, where the judge has the last word and the legislator has the first. I do not believe that there is a hierarchy of who has the best or the highest word. Nor would I say that the judge is always the highest and most respected authority. I wouldn't want to make a game out of it either. The judge has a role in this procedure. I shall explain it in a moment, including the procedure I have proposed. I'll also explain why I'm really attached to that advisory college. That didn't just come between us. This is particularly true in order to give the best possible role to the victims and their families. I'll get back to you on that. Mr Van Nispen asked for a position on rehabilitation following the ruling of the Court of Justice of the Hague this year. This court has ruled in an individual case that resocialisation of lifelong punishment should be started. Here again you see the terms "re-socialization" and "re-integration." It's about doing more than usual. Following this ruling, a tailor-made plan was made for the reintegration activities, of which leave is a part. Resocialization had already begun on day one, just like any other prisoner. Re-integration has been enforced here. Mrs. Helder asked if life-long punishments are going to force business right away if we don't do this now. It is already happening, and it does not help if we have a system that judges say does not meet the requirements. This helps individuals to enforce matters such as reintegration and leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u97	I'm hesitating, because maybe the Secretary of State will come up with something. Now that we have seen that a detainee can enforce this in court because Dutch policy is not in line with human rights, there are too few opportunities in detention to develop yourself and so on, my question is what is going to change structurally. How, for example, do we get a chance to get therapy so that people are less dangerous? How do people get a chance to develop? What's going to change in the prison system for, for example, the life sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u98	Above all, what is going to change is that there is certainty as to when we assess whether we are eligible for reintegration. That is the main change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u99	The decision will remain with the Secretary of State. In addition, it takes 25 years for this to happen. Is the Secretary of State saying that for the first 25 years nothing really changes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr Van Nispen pretends nothing happens for the first 25 years. Resocialisation activities take place during the first 25 years. These, along with many other issues that I will come back to, provide input for the advisory college that has to make a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u101	Then how can that individual force that on the judge? If Dutch policy is suitable for everyone and is also in line with human rights, this should not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u102	This person could enforce that because the judge was not satisfied that the person in question did not receive an answer to the question as to when it would be assessed whether he was allowed to participate in reintegration. We're going to introduce that assessment now. You can never force reintegration. I don't rule out the fact that it'll be enforced through the courts later. We are now introducing an opinion after 25 years, followed by a decision on reintegration. If the decision is negative after a negative opinion, I do not rule out an individual appealing against it to the judge. That is also open; I will outline that trajectory in a moment. So the judge has a role to play here. When are we going to be re-assessed? Whenever you're ready. When will you be ready? Not now. You'll be re-evaluated after 25 years. There's a solid piece of advice underneath that. For example: these steps can and after so much time we will re-evaluate. Or: not on the agenda now and after so much time the next re-evaluation is. The judge who sees an individual in front of him thus has much more guidance to be able to trust that a re-evaluation will be discussed in the existing system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u103	I can go a long way with what the Secretary of State says, but I still don't get a few points. The Secretary of State says that rehabilitation takes place from day one and in that sense nothing changes. Then how do we prevent us from still getting procedures on re-evaluation? "There can't be a proper re-evaluation, because I haven't had any psychic treatment." See Murray or other stuff. How are we going to apply that re-socialization trajectory specifically to life-long punishments? Because the moment you say "it's okay now," that kind of thing can't actually lead to success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u104	After 25 years, the advisory board will assess whether someone is fit for reintegration. It should also be able to indicate what still needs to be done if that is not the case at the time. Then you get those follow-up steps in the picture. The advisory board itself can rely on a number of cases. I will explain it later, but my intention is, for example, to involve the research carried out by the Pieter Baan Centre. Mrs Van Toorenburg also suggested reporting from the p.i. Involvement. I have answered that for a very long time, but the bottom line is that I say: good idea, we have to do that. If you include that kind of thing in it, you'll get a very thorough re-evaluation after 25 years. If you say "not yet," you can also indicate what needs to be done and what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u105	I am afraid that is contrary to the ruling of the Supreme Court last Wednesday. Although this is an affluent consideration, it is quite clear that something concrete must have been done at the time when you test after 25 years. That is not about the steps that are taken by default.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u106	Then there must have been something concrete about socialisation in order to be able to make that judgment. In my view, we are now putting into practice even more by giving the advisory college tools to get a better picture of an individual.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u107	Very briefly, Mrs. Swinkels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u108	It is really about this point, because in the case of Edwin S., the court of the Hague has already said that at the moment you are going to re-assess, you need to have the preparation done in order to see if the sentence still needs to be continued. The Secretary of State is always talking about a test moment for the start of reintegration activities, but it is precisely this preparation for the return I have just mentioned that has already begun. A judge who has to re-evaluate must have a record of that. There must be all kinds of things. It is important, for example, to know if there has been accompanied leave. If that kind of information isn't there, that judge can't do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u109	In my proposal, it is not the judge who does it anyway, nor does it take 25 years. After 25 years, the question of reintegration is examined. If that is the case, these steps are very useful for the assessment of a possible later pardon request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u110	The fact that I was talking about the judge was a freudian mistake, but any independent college that will have to judge if someone is ready to return must have information about it. Then there must have been a preparation prior to that moment and then there must be a report on it. A monitoring system and a follow-up report should therefore be built up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u111	After 25 years, the question is not immediately whether someone can be released. Then the question is whether someone is fit to take those reintegration steps on the basis of which you could later assess whether someone is eligible for further freedoms. Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly asked: was nothing done with the plan of former Minister Hirsch Ballin? She asked, "Didn't any of this happen? We were warned at that time, weren't we? In 2009, there was indeed a letter from the then Minister and Secretary of State on the pardon procedure. A number of things have been put into practice. Think of the starting point that lifelong punishes are placed together with other inmates, the personal approach and the personal detention plan. At the time, there was no implementation of something which has some degree of consistency with what I am proposing. This is the plan at the time to give a re-evaluation every five years of the life sentence or at least to give the opportunity to carry out research on the basis of diagnostics and risk assessment. So that is also a difference from what I am proposing. Another difference is that the test I want to enter is more extensive than was proposed at the time. That is because I want to give the victim and next of kin research a clearer place in that and because I want to include a standard investigation by the Pieter Baan Centre. So there's similarities in it. A number of cases have been carried out, but they contain the two main differences. The reason why the wait was then followed and the reluctance to take that step was precisely in the feeling that Mrs Van Toorenburg in her first interruption reflected so clearly and to which Mr Van Oosten and Mrs Helder touched very much. I feel a lot of connection to that too. Now, seven years later, we have exactly what needs to be changed and there is a clear statement that life cannot actually be imposed anymore. If we don't repair before 5 September 2017, there will be even bigger problems with life imprisonment. It has been asked whether or not this should be in a law. Mr Recourt mentioned two steps, but I have three for myself. First of all, we have a problem now because the Supreme Court has said: if you don't fix it before 5 September, you may get it repaired once again from the Dutch system. I want to see that done quickly so that we can shape it in practice and get on with it in practice, so that we can meet it and keep it going for the rest of our lives. That is a bad relation to the royal road, although it can all be done, it falls within the powers and it is a fulfillment of the pardon procedure. So it doesn't have to be through the law and it can be discussed with the Chamber in this way. I understand if Mrs Van Toorenburg asks if we would have chosen this route if there was no time pressure. For the legal anchoring I have a lot of understanding, but I would like to do it alone and legally anchor it. Of course, we can always adapt and update things, but I wouldn't want it to be delayed for practice. I would like to set these things in motion at the same time, which means that you will start in practice under the current rules, under which it can be done, and will follow the legal anchoring later. Mr Recourt is asking for another step. That is an even greater change of law, namely to remove the power now in the pardon procedure at the office of Secretary of State, although it will be mandated; it will officially be the minister to remove it. I don't feel like doing that by law myself. I don't think that's necessary. I can imagine that it will eventually disappear there, but I would like the advisory college to have the opportunity to be so authoritative that a parliament that sits then could also consider choosing that route. I believe that the various interests involved in society and the interests of victims and relatives can be better served than by putting it before a judge now. I do not agree with the suggestion that the decision is political because it lies with my office. Of course, it is entirely up to you to follow the advice of the college and to what extent they are authoritative, but also to how we react in this house to a State Secretary following an opinion. If the college is authoritative and you do nothing but literally follow the advice, then it's not politics. At the moment, because it is a formal decision of the Secretary of State, it becomes a debate here because not everyone agrees with what the College has advised in that particular case, then it becomes politics. That's a risk because it's invested here. I'd really like the college to grow up and that's how we're gonna do it right now. I wouldn't want to take that third step to rebuild the pardon system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u112	It is good that the Secretary of State says: we are going to start, but we are going to lay that down in the law at the same time; it will take a little longer. But then the college, it's gonna be an advisory college. The Secretary of State says it should be a very authoritative college. It is not a question of whether it is going to be the court of appeal, but I wonder why we are not making the college a court of law. Instead of an advisory college, it becomes a college that can decide for itself. Then we will not have political debates here. In the Volkert van der G case, no life sentence has been imposed, but to my great displeasure politics is full in the execution of the sentence. Let us avoid that, please, by making the authoritative college so authoritative that it can decide for itself, independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u113	Then Mr Recourt and I have a different picture of this chicken-or-egg discussion about whether something becomes authoritative by giving it a formal position immediately, or whether a college can build up so much authority that after a while Parliament can say with confidence that the advisory role can be turned into a formal decision-making role. Then Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Swinkels asked about the role of the judge in the proposed amendments. If the Advisory College advises on the start of reintegration activities and the State Secretary takes a formal decision on them, the person concerned may initiate proceedings in the amenities court if he disagrees with them. In a decision on a pardon application, the judge also has an important role to play in the Grace Act. In my proposal to change that, the judge has the opportunity to test that and has an important role in the process. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the consideration of the reports from the p.i. I agree with her that this should be given a role in the procedure. Let me take a look, because in my story several things have already emerged. Mrs Helder, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Nispen asked how the opinion of victims could be taken into account. Firstly, the advisory college should also base itself on the victim and next of kin research as we know it. This can make it clear what impact it has on their personal lives. It was rightly pointed out that they are in any case lifelong. As part of this, victims and relatives can be heard, if they appreciate it. I also think it is important that, when selecting the members of the advisory college, specific attention should be paid to their expertise in the position of victims and survivors. Preferably, the composition is such that it can count on authority from victims and next of kin. We discussed the block about the difference between reintegration and socialisation in detail. Mr Van Oosten asked for an increase in the penalty for manslaughter. This is also a variant which I believe we should act on the basis of case law, because the burden of proof for the definition of "murder" has been increased. This means that things that society used to put under "murder" and which judges then also said they were covered by "murder" and which stood for up to 30 years now, legally-technically, suddenly fall under "killing." An unsub, who we used to think could get a high maximum sentence, is now on a lower level at once. That's why I want to raise that penalty limit. I will also send that proposal to the Chamber. When it comes to the penalty increase for murder, I'd like to have an investigation conducted by the WODC first. I want to know how this relates to a life sentence, because there is, of course, a wider possibility of time penalty between a temporary sentence for murder and life imprisonment. This can, of course, also lead to a certain number of non-life sentences, which reduces the guarantee that a person, who is still a threat to society after that, will be detained for life. We've also dealt with the relationship to grace. Then I come to a question by Mr Van der Staaij on the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. I myself once asked that question in another capacity. I fully agree with that in principle, and I still fully support it. What you will often see the Committee of Ministers argue and advise at the Court is that the margin of appreciation, the freedom of policy for the Member States, is there and that it is greater. Frankly, it has already been explicitly recognised by the Strasbourg Court that life is not contrary to the European Treaty, so we do not need to fight for that. The procedure of pardon can be an interpretation that fits perfectly within the European Convention on Human Rights. That has also been endorsed and recognised. That's basic. The only point on which you can sit is that you think that the Dutch interpretation of the pardon procedure offers enough perspective. That is a discussion at a level of detail. When I look at how other countries have set it up, I do not expect that much support for it. Most other countries also have a fixed test moment. It is really a weighting of how the Netherlands specifically filled it out and whether that offers enough perspective and not so much a fundamental question about the interpretation of a specific article from the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u114	I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. Then I give the floor to Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u115	How much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u116	It is a third of the first-term speaking time, including the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u117	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll start soon. I thank the Secretary of State for giving me the answers. My group said at the beginning of this debate that life is to remain for life, and that is what my group is still saying, through yours truly. I don't think the Secretary of State's explanation is convincing. I have put forward a number of arguments to which he can certainly put a line of reasoning so that he can keep his back straight. I do not call that stubbornness, but I called it steadfastness in an interrupting debate. The Secretary of State is part of the legislature and the Supreme Court does not decide what the legislation should look like here. The law says life is life. While it was said in 2009 and 2011 that there is no conflict between the Dutch system and Article 3 of the ECHR, the Supreme Court now refers, on the basis of the same article of the Treaty, Article 3 of the ECHR, to case law of the European Court of Human Rights. He's just giving out one verdict that the Secretary of State can take advantage of. I put him in there. That is the Hutchinson case against the United Kingdom. He's a wise guy for the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court chooses to say that it awaits political decision-making, but does say what it should look like. The Supreme Court is not the legislature here. I almost think it smells like blackmailing what's in that arrest. I hope the Secretary of State still wants to keep his back straight. That's why I'm filing the next motion as a stick behind the door. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current life imprisonment as provided for in Article 10 of the Code of Criminal Law still has (many) support among the Dutch population;]] [[Whereas this custodial sentence has not been included in the Code of Criminal Law for nothing in the past;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain life imprisonment in full,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-340]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u118	Mr. Chairman. We all agree: we want to keep the life sentence. It is disappointing that it is precisely when the rule of law has to show its strength that parties in the Chamber create noise about judgments of the judge. In doing so, they are completely ignorant of the problem we are talking about. If a judge currently imposes a life sentence, he's in violation of the law. If we don't solve that problem, we're gonna end life, and that's not what we want. What we do want is a humane punishment and a humane execution of that punishment. That is something that we, as legislators, must resolve now. That was understood by the Secretary of State and the VVD, and that was understood by the left-wing opposition. As far as D66 is concerned, we are dealing with this right now on the front, not only after the elections. Have the re-evaluation carried out by a judge, or at least by a judicial college. Therefore, start the rehabilitation process in good time, so that there is a dossier, information, for that judicial college so that it can judge. Then we are offering the case-law tools to be able to impose for life again. If a majority does not make that choice now, we will see what that means in legal practice. D66 therefore, like the PvdA, wants a legal system which is properly completed for life, step two, or step three if one wishes, as a humane punishment that can be imposed by judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u119	Mr. Chairman. Life imprisonment can only continue if we comply with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. That is a treaty to which we, as a country, as legislators, have committed ourselves and to which the judge must comply. This means that there will be a re-evaluation of the sentence after 25 years and that re-socialisation and reintegration will be started from the outset. However, the Secretary of State makes a different choice, both in terms of the 25 years, and in terms of the completion of the first 25 years of detention. This does not change anything compared to the current situation. In addition, the review should be carried out by the judge. After all, he deals with the level of punishment. The Secretary of State keeps the decision to himself. I don't think that's wise. A judge should be able to impose a life sentence if he considers it necessary. We must give him or her this opportunity as legislator. I appreciate the efforts made by the Secretary of State to do something about current practice, to make policy human rights consistent, but I fear it is not enough. It is not enough to meet human rights. The SP is also pleased that we are getting a law. That's really good news. When can we expect this law? Can a deadline be attached to this? The SP also considers this a very important subject. In fact, we cannot do enough in the four minutes that we have in this debate this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u120	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. He's made a lot of points. I also welcome his commitment to at least consider a number of issues and to give the importance of the relatives and the victims an extra place, but I really believe that this should be done within a legal framework. In order to strengthen that, we have prepared the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intends to make policy changes with regard to life imprisonment;]] [[Whereas these measures allow for a re-evaluation and possibly a reduction of the term of sentence of life imprisonment, which has been imposed for the most gruesome crimes;]] [[Whereas it is very important that this is based on a careful legislative process, in particular in order to safeguard the interests of victims and survivors;]] [[invites the Government, if it considers it necessary to make changes, to come forward with a proposal instead of adopting it through policy rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-341]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u121	The Secretary of State has said that there will be a law, but we will continue with this regulation because we are under time pressure. Can I interpret the motion in such a way that the proposers find that a good idea and can live with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u122	A good idea? No. Can I live with it? Difficult. I realize the reality is that it's going to happen. There is a majority in favour and I also see the case law. I want to weigh it more than is possible in four minutes and in a month and a half time. I have not tabled a motion, nor am I under the PVV's to say: stop everything and stop thinking. I want a legislative process. I think we have time for that if we have a total of a year. We can then weigh it well and speak to everyone, including those who have now made themselves heard a little less loud, because they knew in advance that life imprisonment would be nothing, and those who think it can, because we must also give them the space to make their voice heard. So the answer is yes. I knew Mr Recourt still wanted to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mr. Chairman. For a lifetime, it is maintained in practice and on the interpretation of different parties radically and in principle. I thought it was a nice debate in that sense. That is how we should do it more often in the Chamber, including on principles and principles. Once again, my appreciation to the Secretary of State for the step he has taken against rejoicing and rejoicing. It is good to hear that it is also laid down in a law. If the law is not to my satisfaction, I will amend it or try to amend it in another way, but we will see that again. We still disagree on that. For example, I want to take it out of the political domain and not the Secretary of State. This will be dealt with in the legislative debate, which is why it is nice to have that law in place. In interpreting the motion, I assume that these two routes can run side by side, but they both go quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u124	Mr. Chairman. Victims of murderers don't get a second chance either. That is why this amendment must be completely rejected. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government intends to change the execution of the life sentence so that life sentences can be released after 25 years;]] [[Whereas these prisoners have gruesome murders on their consciences and should never again enter the streets;]] [[Whereas the interests of the survivors should always be placed first;]] [[calls on the Government not to implement these proposed amendments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-342]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u125	Mr. Chairman. I already indicated it in my first term: I am only standing here for one purpose. I can't achieve that goal by using all kinds of tough language. This objective can only be achieved by following the changes proposed by the Secretary of State for justified reasons. These must lead to us organising the maintenance of life imprisonment in the Netherlands and the detention of criminals from atrocious crimes and the possibility of life imprisonment. The alternative that those same killers are at large after 20 years, I can't take my side. I find that indigestible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u126	Mr van Oosten dares to take the words in his mouth that he is not standing here to speak tough language. However, he does so during the election campaigns. During the previous election campaign, one of the slogans was: more punishment for criminals and less understanding of criminals. What is Mr Van Oosten doing? He's freeing criminals. He should be ashamed of that. Now Mr Van Oosten says that he is not here to speak tough language, but during the campaign he does no different with slogans and election programs, which he then all breaks. I find that a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u127	I do not share and recognize Mr Bontes' interpretation and explanation. I don't want those horrible killers to be free after 20 years. I don't want that. That is why I want life imprisonment to remain in the Netherlands and can be imposed by judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u128	The MP Van der Steur, now Minister of Security and Justice, has said that there is no need for a perspective at all, because that is already there: it is called "grace." Your slogan in the election campaign was: more punishment and less understanding for criminals. Those promises are both completely broken. Every time it's the same. You try to get away with woolly stories, but in the end you will be punished for that. I guarantee you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u129	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. In any case, the conclusion of the debate is that it is widely accepted that it is important to have legislation that responds to the case law we are now dealing with. A new and clear framework is needed. For the SGP, the starting point remains clearly that life is a lifetime. My contribution was also marked by concerns about the creeping transition from life imprisonment to temporary imprisonment. If the look is reduced to humanity towards the perpetrator, it could be inhumane to the victims and society. It really needs to be approached in this width. I think it is important for the cabinet to continue to work preventively and proactively to support life imprisonment, including in Europe. That is why I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Committee of Ministers has an important role to play in defining and interpreting the European Convention on Human Rights, and it is important that the margin or appreciation of Member States is not unduly restricted;]] [[Whereas, given the current level of threat of terrorist attacks alone, it is important that life imprisonment can be imposed in the event of serious life crimes;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the Committee of Ministers to support the interpretation of Article 3 of the ECHR in such a way that the possibility of life imprisonment can be fully preserved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-343]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the first motion, which is part No. 340 by Mrs Helder. She is asking for what we now have to be fully preserved. That is at the heart of this whole discussion. I reject this motion because I strongly believe that it will disappear in practice if we do so. There has already been some discussion about the interpretation of the second motion, which in part No. 341. I look at it, and it says literally: instead of policy rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u132	Is my microphone on now? Yes. A word has gone missing in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u133	Which one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u134	The word "law proposal." It says "proposal," but that must be "legislative proposal."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u135	I hear we can still change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u136	And the addition that Mr Recourt gave is not one of them. Let me add that to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u137	I like that, but when I read the motion, it says literally: instead of. I will then have to lay down policy rules and replace them with a legal anchor as soon as possible, together with the Chamber. It would be nice if the operative part could be amended in the next few days, so that it is reflected in it and I can see this motion as a support for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u138	I'm going to do it so neatly that we won't stand in the way of the Secretary of State's policy and we'll end up with a law that the Chamber will be able to talk about. That's what it's gonna look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u139	So you're going to change your motion? That is possible, as long as it takes place before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u140	A brief question on this, Mr President, because I think this should be very clear to all of us. I understand the Secretary of State in such a way that we have no time to waste. He therefore proposes measures contained in policy rules. I think the Secretary of State says he has no objection to a law, but it should not lead to delays. I want to get it. May I explain the words of the Secretary of State as follows? He says: whatever is left in Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion, I have to work with the letter I sent to the Chamber, so to speak tomorrow, and whether or not that law follows, with all the interests surrounding it. But I start exactly as described in the letter. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u141	I start through policy rules and practice. Then some things will also be possible. The bill will then have to include the whole package. So you can only steer that when you have shaped all the elements in your policy and in your policy rules. We can see what will eventually be adopted, but the legislative proposal will, of course, reflect those policy rules and the policy in practice. It will therefore not lead to delays. The bill will be able to go to the Chamber next year after we have shaped the policy. There's the same thing in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u142	That policy is already there, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u143	Yeah, sure. I come to speak about the motion on item No. 342 by Mr Bontes. I understand Mr Bontes' considerations very well and I share them. Only if I export the operative part does that not lead to what is in the recitals. This will lead to less punishment in practice, because you will not get a lifetime but a maximum of 30 years. That does not seem to be of service to the considerations. So I'm deceiving the motion. Finally, there is the motion by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Van Toorenburg on item No. 343. In my view, the interpretation is not now an obstacle to the possibility of maintaining and fully implementing a life sentence. The interpretation of the ECHR by the European Court of Justice does not pose a problem. So I don't really know what I should be arguing for. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u144	I'll give you an explanation. It's also in the word "full." The operative part states that "the possibility of life imprisonment can be preserved in full'. You do see a tendency to fill it out more strictly. That is precisely why there is a call, if we do not want that erosion further, to make it a point proactively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u145	Okay, well, at least I know what the point is. I want to come back to that. I would also like to discuss with the Minister who is going to such a meeting the extent to which you can arrange that sort of thing without a particular case being a direct cause. In this sense, I would advise against the motion now, but I would like to return to the question of whether we can actually see the possibility, as Member States, of hitting that prick pole, to say: we understand this, but we do not understand it any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u146	It does not need to be treated with extreme urgency. If the Secretary of State says he wants to take a quiet look at it, I'd like to suggest that we hold the motion. He has promised that he will examine the possibilities. There can then be a written response to that. Then we can hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u147	At the request of Mr Van der Staaij, I propose his motion (29279, No. 343). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u148	It's always nice to finish something right away. We had a little chat. As I said, the word 'proposal' is changed to 'legislative proposal'. But we delete the last part of the sentence that starts with "instead." That's what we do in order not to cause any confusion. The Secretary of State will undoubtedly see the amended motion as well. Then he'll know it's already been set up here in peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u149	The Van Toorenburg/Van der Staaij motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intends to make policy changes with regard to life imprisonment;]] [[Whereas these measures allow for a re-evaluation and possibly a reduction of the term of sentence of life imprisonment, which has been imposed for the most gruesome crimes;]] [[Whereas it is very important that this is based on a careful legislative process, in particular in order to safeguard the interests of victims and survivors;]] [[invites the Government, if it considers it necessary to make changes, to come forward with a legislative proposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 341 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-08-tweedekamer-8.u150	This brings us to the end of the debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State, the people in the public gallery and the messengers for their presence.
