ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I warmly welcome Members and welcome the people who are following this debate in the public gallery. The same goes, of course, for those who follow this debate in a different way. I propose that we start quickly with the first speaker, but only after I have agreed with the spokesmen that we do the interruptions in two today. I call Mrs Tellegen. She speaks on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. I remember being on the Internet for the first time in the mid-1990s. A new world had opened up, with so much information that I didn't know where to start. A digital highway with infinite possibilities. Today we race on this digital highway as fully accomplished drivers. We're on Facebook. We skype with friends. We do internet banking, buy concert tickets online and do purchases on bol.com. More than 80% of the Dutch population use the internet every day. Often without thinking, we leave our digital tracks behind. Our vacation photos. Our personal data and even our payment details. The same digital highway is also used by criminals, who are not so good with us. With digitization, cybercrime is also growing. We need to tackle them, in order to protect all those good users of the Internet. Not only the physical world, but also the digital world must be safe and trusted. Business should also be able to do business safely and effectively on the Internet. We can expect certain guarantees from the government for that security. Cybercrime occurs in all kinds of forms and becomes increasingly ingenious and professional. Victims can be more difficult to protect themselves and the damage done becomes more extensive. The calculated damage for the Netherlands due to cybercrime is currently around 10 billion a year and will only increase. The lack of proper powers prevents the perpetrators from being identified and the damage cannot be recovered from them. Citizens and business suffer. You would say that all parties in the Chamber would join forces to protect users from this. We should all be convinced of the usefulness and need to adopt a law that gives us more digital security as soon as possible. But unfortunately, there are parties in this house who find the approach to cybercrime as formulated in this bill morally reprehensible and who want us to believe that it makes society more unsafe. They are convinced that it is almost purely for the government to examine our internet behavior and to make public which cd you and I order at bol.com, or which dating site we visit. I sincerely wonder how these parties want to tackle the problem of cybercrime and what powers they want to give to the police or to make our digital world as safe as possible. Look at the actual number of convictions. The current situation is one of complete impunity. Do we want to restore the government's ability to protect ourselves, or do we continue to watch it go further? Outside this house, too, a lot of people are critical of this bill. They do not consider it to be in line with the interests advocated by the government, namely a free, open and secure internet. In my opinion, this gives a distorted picture. The impression is created that the police will be able to break into any smartphone remotely to read whatsapp messages, or hack into your computer and track your movements on Facebook. I told you during the round tables we had in preparation for this bill: if all this were true, then we have to choose between privacy and security. That is a completely inappropriate presentation of things, which merely seeks to polarise the debate, with a great deal of nuance missing. Yes, this bill comes with more digital investigative powers, but there are more safeguards to protect people's privacy than with an average physical search by the police. This law extends the digital detection capabilities for police and justice, not to throw out the privacy sensitive information of innocent servers on the streets, but precisely to provide protection against the computer criminals who do. Just a few weeks ago, the news came out that internet criminals had hacked a dating site, with 3.5 million users on the streets. It is important to use the right powers, but also to have the knowledge to cut off these criminals on the Internet. This calls first of all for more IT specialists within the National Police Team High Tech Crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u3	Mrs Tellegen spoke of "certain parties." I'll leave in the middle who she means by that. She also talked about privacy all the time. That's great fun, but I'd like to ask her a question about safety. In this bill, the cabinet proposes that the police hack on the basis of vulnerabilities. Will Mrs Tellegen admit that those vulnerabilities that are going to be used by the police can also be used by criminals, Chinese hackers, foreign intelligence services, etc.? Will Mrs Tellegen, in her speech, say that these vulnerabilities are useful for everyone and not just for the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u4	I need to think about how to answer this question. Mr Verhoeven began by saying that this law gives the police the power to hack. That's right, but he said right after it, based on vulnerabilities. But that's not the only thing. This law gives a wide range of possibilities to detect criminal terrorists or paedophiles in this digital world. One of its possibilities is the use of vulnerabilities. That's just a nuance in response to the interruption. It is true that there are vulnerabilities; that is the reality of the Internet. Those vulnerabilities never go away, either. So the answer to Mr Verhoeven's question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u5	It seems logical to me that I should zoom in on the subject that I think is the worst for the safety of people and the security of the Internet. This is indeed a broad law with many proposals. We will certainly support some of them, as I will make clear in my speech. I would like to focus on the point that this proposal also ensures that unknown and known vulnerabilities can be used by the police in order, as Mrs Tellegen says, to better apprehend criminals. But my point is that those same vulnerabilities can also be used by anyone else. So that makes the Internet more unsafe. What is Mrs Tellegen's assessment? Does she say that we are actually okay with all these vulnerabilities being used by others? Or hasn't she thought about exactly how that might work out? It is really fundamental that we have this insight and that we are discussing it. We cannot just say that this law offers a number of powers to catch criminals. No, this law is also going to make it easier for criminals to use webcams and smartphones.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u6	I have already told Mr Verhoeven that these vulnerabilities are there and that they are useful for the police, but also for criminals. My position is very clear. I'll come back to it in great detail later, but I'll take an advance on it. Mr Verhoeven saw Mr Recourt's and my amendment coming. That's an answer to the vulnerabilities. We are proposing an alternative. D66 simply says: however, vulnerabilities should not be used by the police, because they make the Internet unsafe. I'm really just 100% disagreeable with that. That's bullshit! If these vulnerabilities are present and remain, then I believe that the police should be able to use them under strict conditions, precisely to deal with the criminals who are behind them. Mr Recourt and I are looking forward to putting a stick behind the door with regard to the use of these vulnerabilities. There will be a reporting obligation in the case of a vulnerability detected, unless this vulnerability needs to be used for longer in the interest of the investigation. Then there is the desire not to report and to use the vulnerability longer. In that case, an additional test will be added which precedes it. In other words, yes, these vulnerabilities must be able to be used by the police, albeit under conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u7	I have a question about those vulnerabilities. If the police discover that a certain type of house lock is easy to break open, then it is perfectly logical that the police immediately hang on to the big clock that this and that type of lock does not close the house enough? Then there is no saying: we are going to take this out for a while, because we can now easily enter the house and possibly prevent a crime. Isn't that exactly what the police should do in the zero-day exceptions? Those vulnerabilities must be reported immediately so that they can be remedied. There is no question of the police buying them, trading in them and using them themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u8	The comparison between securing your home and your computer is often made, but is not 100% valid in this case. If there is a burglary in Mrs Van Tongeren's house because there is a weak lock on it, then the police will say: Mrs Van Tongeren, you need to secure your back door better. After all, it's because of the lock. The same police, however, wants to ensure that whoever has walked around her house, who has taken her necklace from her bedroom, is taken. It may be in the interest of the research to see which lock was so weak and how it was used. That is exactly what we are aiming at with the vulnerabilities in the digital world. Making use of this can be of great use to the police and a necessity. So I say: yes, it must be possible for the police to use these vulnerabilities, but under conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u9	If I understand correctly, those vulnerabilities can only be used to catch the person who caused the vulnerabilities, but not to detect a completely different crime. That's the comparison with the house. It can be found that a particular brand lock does not work, and then the supplier is told: do something about it. These vulnerabilities, I believe, are used to gain access to all kinds of other things, to detect all kinds of other things. Because you happen to be able to sneak into the house, take a look around and see some other crimes. I do not think Mrs Tellegen's answer is correct at all, because the vulnerabilities in which the police operate are being used not only to deal with those vulnerabilities themselves, but also to deal with all kinds of other serious crimes, such as terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u10	I didn't make the comparison between the house and the computer myself and said precisely for that reason that the comparison doesn't go 100%. I tried to make the comparison with Mrs Van Tongeren, but the comparison is limp. Let me go back to the digital world. There are at present endlessly many criminals, terrorists and paedophiles who can do their job without penalty. This law allows the police to make use of vulnerabilities. I say clip-and-ready that I want to keep that possibility alive. Why? It concerns the possibility for the police to enter a computer, remotely, and thereby gain insight into the work of a criminal. Hopefully that'll help prosecute and deal with that criminal. So that's what we do under conditions. Please read Mr Recourt's and me's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u11	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u12	Outside this house, too, many people are critical of this law. They do not consider this law to be in line with the interests advocated by the government, namely a free, open and secure internet. In my opinion, this gives a distorted picture. The impression is created that the police will be able to break into any smartphone remotely to read whatsapp messages or hack your computer and track your movements on Facebook. I said it at the round tables that we had in preparation for this legal process: if all this were true, then we would have to choose between privacy and security, and that is a completely improper representation of things and merely polarize the debate, with a lot of nuance missing. This law extends the digital detection capabilities for police and justice, not to throw out the privacy sensitive information of innocent servers on the streets, but precisely to provide protection against the computer criminals who do. Just a few weeks ago, the news came out that Internet criminals had hacked into a dating site, on which the data of 3.5 million users was put on the street. It is important to use the right powers, but also to have the knowledge to cut off these criminals on the Internet. This calls first of all for more IT specialists in the Police Team High Tech Crime. Can the Secretary of State indicate how this team can be strengthened in the short term, as we already know that 50% of total crime is committed via the Internet by 2020? I would also like to hear the government's views on setting up cybercrime response teams in every police region, in order to make a real contribution to digital crime. With this law, our investigation services are given the possibility to access computers, tablets and smartphones remotely, not only in the Netherlands but worldwide. This law will allow the police to break in if there is a suspicion of serious criminal activity. However, the law does more. About 750,000 men are online every day, looking for young children to have them perform sexual acts for the webcam, often for a fee. Every day there are 750,000 men who have webcam sex with children. Everyone has followed the news of Sweetie, the fictional character developed by Terre des Hommes, who unmasked 1,000 of those perverts. Sweetie is a great success with that. The law we are discussing offers the possibility of allowing fictional characters as a means of detection. In the amendment I have tabled, I am making it much more explicit than it is now in the law to make sure that child pornography can also be traced with fictional persons. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that is outside this bill, but it is a concern of mine how we can ensure that evidence collected with decoys, whether fictitious or not, can be used firmly. I'd like to hear a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u13	Kids porn is horrible. Everyone thinks so. We are talking about a law aimed at tackling terrorists, child pornography and cybercriminals. D66 is also in favour of this; D66 wants to tackle it. Let me take the example of the paedophiles mentioned by Mrs Van Tellegen. They are paedophiles and child pornoids who are looking for images via webcams to sell on the internet to their customers. Additional vulnerabilities on the Internet...............................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u14	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u15	Does the VVD think that's an important point? The VVD is acting like only the police that are going to use vulnerabilities to catch paedophiles, but those paedophiles are going to use those vulnerabilities as well. What is Mrs Tellegen's reaction to that fear? I just think it's important to think about that. Those vulnerabilities can be used by anyone, not just the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u16	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u17	Mr Verhoeven and I agree on one thing: we both want to tackle child pornography. However, I really wonder whether the way Mr Verhoeven proposes can be effective at all. Does he really think that paedophiles, terrorists, and criminals will stop for one day less if the few vulnerabilities the police trace are closed? Those vulnerabilities are there and remain there. That trade isn't just in the underworld anymore, it's in the top world for a long time. A grey area is emerging in which normal companies in the Netherlands deal in vulnerabilities. That is the reality. Mr Verhoeven should not think that closing a few vulnerabilities will solve all the problems in the world on the digital highway. They'll always be there. There will always be criminals looking for vulnerabilities, no matter what we think about them here. It is naive to come up with solutions in Mr Verhoeven's line. That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u18	In conclusion, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u19	The point is that by this law the government can simply obtain a fact, which is even stated in several passages of the explanatory memorandum and the note following the report, and in the letter written by the Cabinet on the use of vulnerabilities..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If the government doesn't report those vulnerabilities, they won't be closed either. So if there are more vulnerabilities on the Internet, all kinds of criminals, smart foreign intelligence services and paedophiles can use them. The VVD may pretend to be naive, but I think it is very naive of the VVD to pretend that there is no danger. That's what this law is about to a large extent. I would also like to make a constructive contribution to this law to ensure that we give the police new opportunities in technological innovation to tackle criminals. However, I would like to pay attention to the fact that the vulnerabilities left open by the police are also open to paedophiles who want to crack webcams and to foreign intelligence services who think 'hey, that's useful, we can also use them'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u20	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u21	What does the VVD do about it? It's really a serious problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u22	I've really said it a few times. I know that we can listen to Mr Verhoeven's voice for a very long time today, but I would like to make it quite clear once again: the VVD is in favour of this law, including the possibility of making use of vulnerabilities. Why? Because it's naive to think that if we close a few of them, this world will be freed from terrorists, criminals, paedophiles and what's more. I agree with Mr Verhoeven in his plea to make this world very idealistic very beautiful, but reality is another. I am therefore in favour of this law, including the possibility of making use of the vulnerabilities. I would like to draw Mr Verhoeven's attention once again to the amendment tabled by Mr Recourt and myself. This shows that I have indeed looked at it in a nuanced manner. I prefer those vulnerabilities to be reported. However, in certain situations, we must be able to give the police the room to enter a computer or other automated work, as we call it, on the basis of vulnerabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u23	How should vulnerabilities be used? Mrs Tellegen said that there is already a lively trade in vulnerabilities, including criminals. The government itself has no interest in vulnerabilities, because it wants to have the most robust and safe internet possible. Can the government make use of this trade in vulnerabilities or should it seek those vulnerabilities itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u24	I would almost say that when I read the bill, I thought: why don't we legalize the trade in vulnerabilities? It's just a fact, something we have to learn to live with. It's never gonna go away. It's going a long way. I didn't make a proposal either, but that's what I think. It's a reality we're dealing with. We must therefore give the police the opportunity to look for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u25	That's a little crazy. The starting point of the government is that it does not want these vulnerabilities, that it wants to have the safest internet possible and to combat the vulnerabilities. That's why there's this reporting obligation. Wouldn't it be crazy if, as a government, you did use services from companies that have exactly the opposite interest? After all, they have an interest in not recovering these vulnerabilities for as long as possible, because that makes them earn their money. That's the opposite of what you'd want as a government, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u26	As a government, you did indeed seek a secure internet. That is what we all support here. When it comes to how we get there, the solutions and the answers are different. I hear Mr Recourt say that he is in favour of making use of vulnerabilities as a government, but that he would like the government itself not to actively seek out trade in vulnerabilities. I do not think so, namely that it should be possible if it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u27	Mrs Tellegen said twice that the VVD would like to keep the data of people on dating sites safe. How is she gonna do that? It wants to allow trade in vulnerabilities and allow the police to use them. How does that help to ensure that data from users of dating sites remains safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u28	I find that a difficult question from Mrs Van Tongeren. The point is that we all leave endless digital traces on the Internet every day without realizing it. It could be at your bank, it could be on a dating site, or it could be on Facebook. It could be anywhere. We must, of course, do everything we can to ensure that everyone knows that they need to secure their business properly when using the Internet. I hope we all do. I may be less than you, Mrs Van Tongeren. That is the side of prevention. That's where we're gonna have to do everything we can. However, when such a system is being broken into, we must have the means and the means to find out who broke into it. Using a vulnerability can be a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u29	I hear these words for the third time now. But can Mrs Tellegen explain it to me? There's already been a hacking and the data is already public. How do you advance the security of that data by not reporting and closing all vulnerabilities as soon as possible? How do you advance the security of that data by maintaining precisely those vulnerabilities to detect something? I really don't understand how that can help to keep the data of users of dating sites safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u30	This is tricky. Possibly the server from which that hack was placed is somewhere else. In such a case, other means and means may be needed to break into another computer. One doesn't rule out the other, does it? If all that data is on the street, the company in question also knows that there is a vulnerability. It will then immediately begin to work to close that vulnerability. But you haven't caught the criminals who broke in yet. If you want to take it, you might want to use such vulnerability, with this law in your hand. I would like to point out to Mrs Van Tongeren that we must also put the debate on the use of vulnerabilities in some perspective. Mr Verhoeven and I have already paid a work visit to the police a year ago to explain the functioning of this law in practice. That visit was very enlightening and useful for many reasons. One of the things I remember about this is that the use of vulnerabilities in the Netherlands is far below 10%. When our police break into an automated network, they usually do it by finding or reconstructing the password. Using zero-days or vulnerabilities is not the most important way police use to tackle criminals and terrorists
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u31	Mrs Tellegen continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u32	Well, Mr President, I would like to respond briefly to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u33	Is this really necessary, Mr Verhoeven? We've been thinking about this point for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u34	I will really try to moderate myself, Mr President, because I understand that everyone is thinking: gosh, Mr Verhoeven has a lot of speaking time today, so we are going to cut him down. I'll limit myself, absolutely. But I also think this is very important. Mrs Tellegen is right; we went to work together. I would like to say to her that precisely because this bill has not yet been passed, of course there is not much use of unknown vulnerabilities. That seems to me to be an important cause. I therefore find it strange that Mrs Tellegen now pretends that the police are never using unknown vulnerabilities. No, the police won't, because they can't. This law is for making that possible. That seems to me to be an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u35	This is Mr Verhoeven's level. I'm really hoping for something more. Mr Verhoeven says he wants to have a serious debate on this. The answer to his question is: Mr Verhoeven, of course I know that. I'm just saying it's the expectation that the relationship will be like this. That's what I've been trying to say. If I haven't said that clearly enough, I'm gonna do it right here. The use of vulnerability by the police is expected to be below 10%. When the police enter an automated network, they usually do so in a different way. So we have to put it in perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u36	Clear. I promise that my next question is my final question on vulnerabilities to Mrs Tellegen, Mr President. She was just talking about unknown vulnerabilities. She said she expects the use of these vulnerabilities to be easy. Okay, fine; that's expected. I say: I see that the police and the government are given the opportunity to buy all kinds of software from "sinister" companies like HackingTeam, or on the darknet, where one does not even know exactly what the vulnerability is, but with which one can break into all those computers, smartphones and webcams. How does Mrs Tellegen feel about D66 thinking, "Oh, the government gets a reason to buy all sorts of unknown vulnerabilities and not close them?" Gee, what will that mean for the increase in the number of vulnerabilities in the Internet, and the vulnerability of all the devices that Mrs Tellegen and all the members of the Chamber work with? How does Mrs Tellegen feel about D66 thinking that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u37	I assume the police are going to do this very carefully. It only does this for one reason: to make the Internet safer, not to make citizens victims of all the forms of crime we already have in the digital world. I must remind Mr Verhoeven that the use of vulnerability is subject to many conditions and guarantees. I'll walk them all by later. We do not just give carte blanche to enter a computer through the use of vulnerabilities. The police can't just go shopping for vulnerabilities all over the world. If she already does, she does so for one reason, namely to better protect the victim of cybercrime. The Jewish supermarket in Paris, which was robbed by IS terrorists in January 2015, was fortunately finally liberated. The French police hacked into the supermarket to get a look at where the terrorists and hostages were. In this way, they were able to invade as effectively as possible, saving many lives. It is difficult to imagine that someone is against this use of hacking when the safety importance is so great. And yes, the privacy of such terrorists will indeed be the VVD. Of course, the VVD also wants the remote access to computer systems to be subject to strict safeguards. For example, there must be serious crimes and an urgent need for investigation. Furthermore, a prosecutor can only issue an order for such an investigation after the judge-supervisor has issued a written authorisation for such an investigation. The execution of this order shall be limited to investigators of the technical team designated by the Chief of Staff. It is also possible to follow exactly what they are doing. All their actions are automatically recorded. So once again, the picture that the police can sit around unbridled with this law in your iPhone is just bullshit. We'd rather have the police hacking suspects than leaving these suspects the opportunity to hack us. By giving the police the hacking power, with strict safeguards, our privacy will be strengthened rather than violated. We do not participate in the scaremongering that our services will soon be able to read my app to my mother. Of course we must be able to send our whatsapp messages safely and unwatched. The VVD therefore supports the view on encryption. It does remind me of the FBI/Apple case in which the FBI asked Apple to cooperate and give the key after a terrorist attack. Apple refused because the company knew that this would lead to large-scale use by the FBI. Apple was right about that, if you ask me. What I don't understand is that the FBI didn't ask Apple to cooperate in the investigation and didn't ask for data without Apple giving the key price. These are situations that can happen a lot. How's the Secretary of State looking at this now? What if we find ourselves in such a situation in the Netherlands? The Secretary of State knows that ransomware also occurs in government institutions such as municipalities, provinces, hospitals and ministries. Government files are hacked and encrypted. The State may buy back the key of the hackers in order to revisit and use the data. For example, the University of Calgary, Canada, last June, paid $20,000 to criminals. How does our government deal with these situations? As a result, I have another point. Ghost invoices are nothing new. My colleague Van Oosten has made an initiative bill with the SP to better address ghost invoices in the physical world, but criminals are increasingly sending them by e-mail. Often a criminal does this via a mail server he hires with anonymous bitcoins and encrypts the fake messages. Sometimes he sends spam messages to tens of thousands of people at once. So the tapping of such a server only results in encrypted traffic, which the police can't do anything with. In such a case, hacking the mail server can help, because the police want to be proactive and catch the perpetrator. Informing reactive victims is not enough. Does the government have any idea of the capacity it would cost the police to counter this kind of cybercrime? Then I come to the discussion about zero-days. Chinese and Russian criminals or criminals from other countries often set up computers with very specific software packages that are widely used in the criminal world. If there is no other means available to the police than hacking to track the perpetrator, there is a possibility to detect a vulnerability, a back door in the software package and thus enter the computer. If the police use these vulnerabilities, they only do so in the interests of the Dutch citizen. If we ban it altogether, the police lack an important opportunity to access the computer. Then you give criminals, terrorists, paedophiles free rein. I do not support the D66 and GroenLinks amendment to ban vulnerabilities 100%. However, the VVD also considers that the companies concerned should be informed of the existence of such a vulnerability. The VVD also considers it important that, if the vulnerability remains open for further investigation or review, it is re-evaluated and weighed. The amendment tabled by Mr Recourt from the PvdA and I today aims to regulate precisely this. Report the leak, but if it's in the interest of the investigation to keep it open and therefore not to report it, then the judge's commissioner needs to be authorized again. Is the Secretary of State aware of the increasing trade in known and unknown vulnerabilities? This one seems to be taking a big flight, not only in the underworld but also in the upper world. A grey circuit is emerging, in which citizens and businesses secure themselves with semi-legal means. Is this true? Acting in vulnerabilities is a criminal offence; it is a criminal commodity. In the U.S., it seems that big companies just hack back after an attack. There's no way the district attorney's office's gonna be involved in that anymore. How do we handle this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u38	Mrs Tellegen just explained that Mr Recourt's and herself's amendment states that the leak may remain open if necessary for the investigation. But of course that leak is not in the Netherlands. If, as is often the case, this system is applied in several countries, is it not extremely unfair to all these other users? Wouldn't it be much better if the Netherlands participated very actively in, for example, Google's project to report all these types of vulnerabilities internationally as soon as possible, and not to keep it open for the Netherlands while we are dealing with a case that might lead to detection and perhaps a conviction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u39	Last week in the news was that large international tech companies joined forces to make a lot more work on reporting and therefore make the Internet safer. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u40	So, yeah, what? We keep the leak open in the Netherlands and we are not in solidarity with that international project? That's what Mrs. Tellegen just said. If we can catch someone who hacked into a dating site, we would like to keep the leak open in the Netherlands, while the rest of the world obviously has an interest in knowing as soon as possible that there is a leak, so that those companies can get going to close that leak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u41	What is the case with the Netherlands, then, is it true with the countries around us? If such a server is not in the Netherlands, but I do know how many victims have been made in the Netherlands, you also want to be able to enter a computer outside the borders of the Netherlands to see which criminals are behind it. That's what this law regulates. That does not alter the fact that, in parallel with this, you must make every effort to make the Internet safer. One doesn't rule out the other. You can strive to do so in the physical world, because we also do so in the physical world to do everything we can to make your home as safe as possible, to make the streets in the Netherlands as safe as possible. At the same time, in the event that things go wrong, you must ensure that the police have sufficient means of detecting them. So it's not either-or, it's and-and. One doesn't rule out the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u42	I'm a little misguided. I just asked Mrs Tellegen if the government could use the trade in weaknesses. She replied, "Yes, you can." But now she says that this is mostly criminal trafficking and not good at all. How does that fit? Surely the government isn't going to use criminal trafficking?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u43	That is exactly my question to the Secretary of State. In the meantime, trade in vulnerabilities is no longer confined to the underworld, the criminal world. So we still call that criminal merchandise........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So these companies are looking for software that allows them to know where their vulnerabilities are. That's a dilemma. I want to know whether this trend is indeed visible and how we deal with it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u44	It's about the government's actions now. How can the government distinguish whether the set of vulnerabilities bought on the market was obtained by criminals, by criminal offences or not? You have to stay away from that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u45	That's just the question. If this is the reality, then perhaps it is morally inappropriate to say that the police should be involved. You can say that you do not participate in this type of practice because it is not right, but it is true that it is true that it is true, but I would prefer that we give the police those opportunities, including the opportunities to participate in that trade, to make the Internet safe. I'd rather do that than sit on our hands and don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u46	I also have a question about the amendment tabled by Mrs Tellegen and Mr Recourt. According to the bill, the police are allowed to use vulnerabilities. In principle, she reports immediately and hopefully these vulnerabilities will be remedied. It says: exceptionally, the vulnerability may be maintained for a while. If I have read it correctly, the amendment states that this can only be done if the Judge Commissioner has given his consent. What about the interim period? I don't suppose the judge's commissioner's gonna decide the same day. In the meantime, can this vulnerability still be used, or is the decision of the Judge Commissioner more or less retroactive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u47	That's a good question. It seems to me the purest thing to do is to pass a pass and say, "Listen, we'll ask the Judge Commissioner for a new judgment first, and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u48	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u49	Cybercrime is the crime of the future. Already one in nine Dutch people have been victims of one cybercrime crime or more once or more, according to the Safety Monitor 2015. Of those 11%, only 15% report. That's very little. What are we going to do to encourage people to report it? I'd like to get a reaction to that. If we really want to do something about combating cybercrime, it's mainly about catching high-tech criminals. Chinese, Eastern European, Russian and other cybercriminals like to strike in the Netherlands. Does the Secretary of State have any idea of the number of criminals caught and actually convicted? Catching those high-tech criminals is particularly important because the new, advanced techniques they use are slipping into the layer of criminals underneath. How do you focus on that almost unpackable high-tech criminal? Is that being looked at strategically? The National Police Team High Tech Crime sees a shift from common world to digital world, as there is easier and more anonymous money to earn. Unfortunately, this form of crime has the future. We must work together to deal with this modern form of crime, just as we do with old-fashioned forms of crime. This bill provides the tools for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u50	The internet is not limited to the Netherlands. The High Council in Germany, let me just mention it, said that the hacking of the digital letter secret is such a serious violation of fundamental rights that only in the event of a threat of life, think of the example of terrorists in the snack bar, or if the survival of the State is threatened. I have two questions about that. Firstly, if that is the case in Germany, why are we dealing so loosely with fundamental rights here? Secondly, how do we ensure that we adhere to our new law on Dutch territory with Dutch servers, while there is a much more serious obligation not to hack across the border with our neighbours? How the hell are we gonna teach our policemen that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u51	Mrs Van Tongeren says that we are dealing loosely with fundamental rights here. I really don't agree with that. If you see how many guarantees and guarantees there are in this law before the police get the hacking power, you cannot say that we are dealing loosely with fundamental rights here. I therefore disagree with Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u52	Finalizing, Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u53	It's not about "even" or "not even." It's about the difference between this bill and what the German judge said. The German Supreme Court says that this can only be done in the event of a threat to life or if the State's pre-existence is at stake. Here we are talking about protecting dating sites and looking up movies on the Internet. So that's much wider anyway. The problem is, therefore, that Germany is not allowed to do so and that, if this bill is adopted, it should be allowed to do so in the Netherlands. Then how do we ensure that our police in Germany comply with German law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u54	I don't really see the problem. I stand here to protect the 17 million Dutch and to give the police the opportunity to protect them. That's what this law sees as. It's about Dutch legislation. If the Dutch police have to break into a computer outside the Dutch borders, this goes according to Dutch law. I do not see why this is so difficult for Mrs Van Tongeren at the moment because of the ruling of a German judge. This is about Dutch law and about Dutch regulations that we create to give the police the power to make the Internet safer. I don't see where that wrings with that pronunciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u55	Mr. Chairman. It is my honour and pleasure to speak on behalf of the SGP. So I'm wearing two hats today, and I'm honored with that. This morning we read a jubilant "twitter" from our Chief Constable. He reported that the Computer Crimes Act III is in the House of Representatives today and that this is a first step to catch up, so that digicriminals can be removed from their hiding place. When I read that, I thought, "We're finally on the right track." Indeed, at the moment, police and justice are hopelessly behind in the fight against digital crime. People's communication is becoming more and more widespread on the Internet, which is limitless. Criminals like to take advantage of that. Also remember that data is often no longer stored on a computer, but somewhere in the cloud, on a server, and not even in the Netherlands anymore. You can be very difficult when you can confiscate a computer and control it. Then you only have a part, because a lot of information is elsewhere at the time. That is why it is essential for the police and the judiciary to have the means to carry out prosecution on that digital highway and to be able to do their job in this digital age. You could actually say, let's finally take off the handcuffs of police and justice. Those handcuffs are on their wrists right now, and they need to come off. It is very good that this law is being dealt with, but let me be a little critical: it has taken quite a long time. This cabinet has not been very forward-looking in this respect. Actually, it took us four years. Every day there's been one too many. As far as we are concerned, every day on which this bill is not in force is a day with a missed opportunity to ultimately curb crime better. In fact, everyone is saying that something must happen to the powers of the police on the Internet. Voors and opponents of this law say something must be done. That was also very clear from the written round. It is good that we have been tested whether what we are doing here is internationally feasible. It is important that the Secretary of State explicitly stated in reply to the written questions that the Cybercrime Treaty allows states to secretly enter into automated work without the consent of the user, but of course there is also considerable criticism. That is understandable, because the measures go very far and are firm. Of course, they need a strong debate. I think it is right that the Secretary of State should also explain clearly today how the law will be implemented by the police and the judiciary, what powers are and what conditions must be fulfilled before those powers can be used. This is clearly what we need. We have even noticed that citizens have been frightened. They have been told that the police are going to snoop freely on the Internet and that they will sneak all the back doors open with us. I think a fact-based counter-noise is necessary. We get a very important letter yesterday. This is a cliff pendant. I would like to talk about it so much, but perhaps the President would like to give Mr Verhoeven the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u56	I am indeed giving the floor to Mr Verhoeven for his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u57	Mrs Van Toorenburg says it is a myth that the police will secretly leave all kinds of vulnerabilities and backdoors open, but that is literally what this proposal means. It is literally the cabinet's proposal that the police be given the opportunity to hack, by seducing the suspect, by using vulnerabilities or by buying, exploiting or leaving open unknown vulnerabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u58	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u59	Then it is not a myth that the police secretly leave vulnerabilities open so that they can be used? That's exactly what this bill means, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u60	I said that ghost noises have gone around that the police are free to talk about the conditions in everyone's computer backdoors and leave them open. Of course, it's not about everyone's computer. It's about bad crime cases. It's not like the police are doing this for fun. It's just ghost images. I think Mr Verhoeven also knows that they are wrong. Let's not go with that scaremongering. It's almost as if the great enemy is our security forces. I'm just saying, because Mrs Tellegen also got these kinds of questions. D66 puts our police as some kind of service against which we need to be protected. That can't be true, can it? We need to be protected from other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u61	This isn't about security services. This is about investigation services. I would like to go along with Mrs Van Toorenburg in the idea that the police will use the powers that the cabinet wants to give her with good intentions. I fully agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg. My point is a completely different one. The fact that the police are making good use of the possibilities of those backdoors and unknown vulnerabilities doesn't tell us how Chinese hackers, foreign intelligence, paedophiles and smart cybercriminals are going to use the same vulnerabilities. That's what I care about. My concern is not about the Dutch police. In fact, I would like to give this authority to the Dutch police. However, I would like to add that you will then grant that same "power" to all kinds of criminals who can use exactly the same backdoors. There's my fear. Can Mrs Van Toorenburg respond to that? It's not about the police, it's about others who take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u62	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u63	I would very much like to respond to that. There are currently vulnerabilities, weaknesses in the systems. They exist. The cops can't do much right now. She won't even find out. The police will soon be given powers to secretly enter the Internet and find vulnerabilities. Are we going to blame the police for finding vulnerabilities and not screaming murder and fire tomorrow to shut them down? Of course not! We are very pleased that the police will be vigilant and serviceable on the Internet as well and will help to make it safer. Now the police won't even find out. She's gonna find out, and she's gonna be happy, and she's gonna be able to report this. I think it is also wise to consider whether we can tighten this up, as in the proposal now before us. I think that's wise. Let's not pretend the police are wrong and make all kinds of vulnerabilities. The police detect all kinds of vulnerabilities and will have to report them. The police aren't our enemy, they're the criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u64	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u65	Then I get to the letter I just got. It's really too hilarious for words. That letter said, "I say it in my own words, "The police are about to stop cars on the highway for fun." It was in the letter I got yesterday. That kind of ridicule letters are sent to people, like the police are about to mess around in car computer systems to shut down cars on the highway. I got that letter. I'll give this to the Secretary of State's assistant later, and he'll be able to laugh for half an hour. That is what is happening. People get scared. That's really reprehensible. It is very good that, in the interest of detection, the Secretary of State does not make any statements as to what software will be used to intrude. That is indeed unwise. It is also ill-advised to set up a number of bans, because you catch bad guys with bad guys. That is perhaps a bit of what Mr Verhoeven wants to put down. So the police will sometimes be able to act, unfortunately, using things that criminals also use.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u66	There's a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u67	Mind if I finish my cube? Because perhaps Mr Recourt would also like to ask about the following. I think it is important for the Secretary of State to clarify something he writes about the fact that the use of vulnerability is often not the appropriate method. So I want to know exactly what's going on. What, in the eyes of the Secretary of State, is the task of the police to prioritize?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u68	I would like to comment on that ridiculous proposal in that letter, which is indeed ridiculous. Anyway, then I thought: we also had a filet, where the police, without technical means, stopped all cars to catch one person, with disastrous consequences. This law makes it possible to get into an automated work. That could be a car that can bring you to a standstill. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg agree with me that we must be clear that breaking into 'automated work' should not be extended to include cars, for example? The government shouldn't just stop cars. Another, absolutely unrealistic, example is the pacemaker. From a lot of devices, I think: when it comes to security, the government has to stay away from it. Shall we establish that in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u69	Are we going to create the image as if the police were going to turn off pacemakers for fun? Oh, come on. Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u70	It's not about creating the image as if it's being done for fun. I do not need a fat amendment, but I want to say that we should not want such crazy examples. "Automated work" is much broader than just a computer, smartphone or something else we're thinking about right now. They could be children's dolls. We have to stay away from that. Now let's just agree that we're just gonna do the same thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u71	I think it's unfeasible and unwise to go that way. Today we do not know what we will develop tomorrow. If we now say that things cannot be done, criminals are going to focus on them and that is precisely what is going wrong with them. And again, our police are not our enemy. If there are vulnerabilities in the Internet, the police will use them, report them and make sure they are closed. The police will look secretly when people are suspected of very serious crimes in the proposal for eight years or more, so when something is really going on. Then the police will act. The district attorney's gonna ask the judge's commissioner for permission to do that. Do we really think that this is gonna happen? Then we really have zero confidence in our security services.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u72	History teaches that everything that can happen happens once. So it is also naive to think that it would not be so in the Netherlands. My idea is that our fundamental rights are there to protect citizens. Citizens' freedoms are protected against the State, for example by letter secrecy. The state can't just have your whatsapp password. In Germany it is said that this should only be done if there is a life-threatening situation or the survival of the State is at stake. There, fundamental rights are weighed rather heavily and the use of vulnerabilities to hack is allowed only if it is really very dramatic. With this bill, that border is placed elsewhere. Can my colleague explain to me why that limit is the right limit in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u73	I think Mrs Tellegen of the VVD explained that very neatly. I'll do it a little easier. I'm glad I live in the Netherlands and not in Germany. In fact, I want that demand to go down from eight to six years, because I think it should be done sooner. You need to be able to act sooner when crimes are committed on the digital highway. Just as we meet the police on the streets, where we expect the police to act on the streets, I want them to act in our digital world as well. That is the world of our criminals. Then the police must have just as much room for manoeuvre. I'm very grateful that I live here, not in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u74	Performance is something other than consciously exploiting vulnerabilities that are contained in software, which we do not inform the rest of the world. We know there's a problem somewhere that one can get into, but we don't tell the rest of the world because we're trying to track down a criminal. It concerns the following, specific consideration. When is it right that we leave all these doors ajar, allowing the Chinese and other criminals to get in effortlessly, because we think we have someone almost there? And when should we say: we consider these fundamental rights of citizens to be very important and we think it is the first task of the police and the government to inform everyone immediately so that all these doors are closed as soon as possible? Because then those criminals won't be able to get in. That's more the position of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u75	This is quite an argument. I'm thinking about what I can best respond to. I say again: there are vulnerabilities. The police are going to try to get into a computer system because they want to solve serious crimes. She doesn't go in and do a game of Nintendo. Mrs. Van Tongeren can wave her hands, but it's as simple as that. She's going there because she's trying to track down some very serious crimes. It's about child pornography, it's about human trafficking, it's about terrorism. Yeah, then I'd like the police to put in a system to look over there. And if she encounters a vulnerability on the way through which she can get in there, very nice! And then she'll report it, please! But please, let's make sure we don't turn our police into a state enemy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u76	I am giving Mr Verhoeven the opportunity to interrupt. We're dealing with a law here today. A lot of questions have already been asked. I don't want to put a ceiling on it either. I would ask Members to put short and concise questions and also to answer briefly and concisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u77	Mrs Van Toorenburg seems to be getting a little irritated, because she gets some questions. I'd still like to put another one on her. She just said in an earlier answer to a question from me that the police will find vulnerabilities by hacking. She just repeated that. It's the other way around. The police will use vulnerabilities to be able to hack. So that's really the other way around. I hope Mrs Van Toorenburg will see the difference, because that is really crucial. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg consider it important that when vulnerabilities have been found, they can be closed in the context of security for all? Does Mrs Van Toorenburg consider it important that vulnerabilities in the Internet are closed as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u78	Perhaps Mr Verhoeven is right that I am irritated. That's true. I'm annoyed because some of the parties here are pretending to be our enemy. And I'm very sorry about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u79	I've denied that too!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u80	Can I finish? I'm really sorry about that. And that's what I'm responding to. That's the stimulus I've got. Then we can turn five times upside down what it's about. The police are trying to get in somewhere secretly, run into vulnerabilities and are going to use them. Then she better come in and solve more. And that's what I want. That's how we look at it. D66 looks at it differently. That's their right. We just want the police to have a lot of powers on the Internet. And yes, I think that's important in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u81	I also like that the police have powers to intervene in order to prevent crime. That's what I just said. I find it faint of Mrs Van Toorenburg that she keeps pretending that I am the enemy of the police, while I point out another point. I would point out that the police will not find vulnerabilities while hacking, but will use vulnerabilities, or will not close to hacking. Then all these vulnerabilities are also available to other criminal organisations. That's what I care about. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg still want to respond to that? So I'm talking about the other organizations. Chinese hackers and paedophiles can also use those vulnerabilities. It is really important to take that into account in the judgment of the law. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg consider it important that vulnerabilities in the Internet be closed as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u82	Yes. That's why I said it's important to do that. That is why I also said that I find the amendment tabled by the PvdA and the VVD interesting. I would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this. I told you the police could run into something. Call it "find" or call it "use"; I don't care. The point is that at some point a vulnerability is found that the police can use me to solve crimes, but D66 doesn't allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u83	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u84	I think we got that bit right then. I believe that another aspect is important. You could also say that this guarantees privacy, better than it is now. The Secretary of State has also indicated this in his written round. There are vulnerabilities that will be reported by the police, so that a hole can eventually be closed. We now often see that at night and at night, often between five and seven o'clock in the morning, the police have to invade somewhere to confiscate a computer, causing families with small children to be completely overwhelmed, while the police could break in much more purposefully without other victims. I think it is important for the Secretary of State to pay some more attention to that. In this way we are actually making things a bit safer because we need to make less use of the classic detection methods. I'll leave the haunted images of the weaknesses. I would have liked to say a few words about this, but I think it has already been adequately addressed through the interruptions. So I'm gonna buy you some time. I come to the notice-and-take-down procedure, where connected Internet providers have agreed to remove criminal material. A penalty payment has been removed from the proposal. We'll get that. However, we would like to come back to this, because we have also discussed it in general consultation. We believe it is important for the Secretary of State to continue to pay close attention to the fact that Internet providers adhere to the removal of the criminal material. In the general consultation of 13 April 2016, we have paid extensive attention to this in the context of child pornography. At that time, the Secretary of State also indicated that he will be speaking with the College of Attorneys General this autumn about the operation of the code that was devised for that purpose. We would like to know what the state of the day is. I have another point about criminal statements on the Internet. We are still very sorry that we cannot take steps to criminalise the glorification of terrorist violence. Of course there is a proposal, but today it is not yet punishable. That's a big concern, because you see things like that on the Internet. It just keeps going on and on. The expressions are wandering the Internet and we find that very worrying. We do think that inciting hatred is a crime that does not fit this bill. This is a reduction in prison time and it would not be possible to use certain powers. We want to know from the Secretary of State how he looks at it. Wouldn't it be wise to include that crime? Fortunately, the chief of police cheered this morning, but last week he made another sound. He said that the police can hardly handle it and that, especially in the area of the digital highway, he needs more manpower and more money. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to that. We all know that if this bill is adopted, the police will have to invest very clearly in this, and certainly in terms of expertise. Expertise is very important, because not everyone can just work on this. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he will ensure that the police can actually do this work properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u85	Mrs Van Toorenburg did not take the concerns of GroenLinks and D66 very seriously. But how does she look at the concerns of RAI Association? He is also deeply concerned about the new hacking law. This raises about the same question as Mr Recourt. RAI Vereniging says that with this law police and justice can also access the data of cars. This is an unintentional and undesirable effect, which also opens the door to criminals and can have serious consequences for road safety. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg think: gosh, if RAI Vereniging finds this, maybe there is something in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u86	I couldn't imagine why I would mind, but perhaps it's elegant to pass this question on to the Secretary of State. I wonder how he looks at it. If we rule out all sorts of things in advance, we may be faced with surprises when we need them, for example when we have the indication that a major terrorist attack will take place in a particular car. Then I want the police to be able to do something about that. Maybe it's just that I like the fact that the police can stop the car if she knows where that car is before it hits a crowded market. I don't know; I'm not the expert. Let us invest in it. At that point, I was. I'm not gonna tell you in advance what you can't do. I do not think that would be wise, but it might be even more elegant to ask the Secretary of State how he looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u87	It is strange that someone from the co-legislator does not want to say where we have to limit a particular legislative proposal. Here we are arguing exactly the same as we have already argued about giving access to the police. If you do not report vulnerabilities in access to cars, this means not only that our Dutch police with the best intentions can prevent a terrorist attack, but also that hurdles can get other people into the operating systems of those cars. This could have a major impact on road safety. That's not an opinion of GroenLinks; that's what the RAI Association says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u88	The cops aren't a bunch of crazy people. If they think that's gonna put road safety at risk, I'm sure our police are gonna report it. The people of the police, I repeat, are not our enemy. It has been adapted to this bill. On three points we still have some notes on our vocals, that is clear. First of all, I would like to mention the scope of the law. We propose that the deadline be reduced from eight to six years. This means that a number of powers can also be applied to offences such as habit healing, money laundering, forgery in writing, embezzlement from a post and passive official bribery. I think it's important to include these crimes as well. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. What's even more sensitive is that I realize it's the decryption order. We have also tabled an amendment to ensure that this is possible in the end. Initially, the government was in favour of it and had included it in the bill. But the government has backed out. That is a political choice, which is not necessary. It's possible. We have an investigation in place which states that it is certainly possible to force people to decrypt or give the keys. I think this is important. I am well aware that this is something that will rarely be used. It is, of course, very difficult to see when this will also have an effect. As far as we are concerned, it is useful to have a file in a toolbox in the first place and then perhaps a rasp. But let's also put an axe in it. This is an axe, I fully realize that. I like it in the toolbox. To those who say that people cannot be forced to cooperate in their own condemnation, I would like to say that that is true. But maybe you shouldn't use the data against this suspect, which they do in England, for example, but sometimes you can use them against someone else. I think this is very sensible. Indeed, there is the sensitivity that you cannot allow someone to cooperate in their own conviction. There are limits to that, by the way. 'Cause sometimes it's possible. You just have to let the IRS in, and on a ship, you have to let the police. Sometimes it just has to be. But you could say: enter this possibility, to make sure that you can at least act sometimes, but perhaps not against the one who has been forced to cooperate. Finally, we are tabling an amendment on the domain name of the banking sector. We are still working a little hard to see how this is best done. Maybe we need to take another shot at that, because at that point there seem to be a few vulnerabilities when people pretend to be a bank and then they try to frame you. If we can tighten that up a little bit, together with the Ministry, it's worth a sweet thing to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u89	Then there is a brief question from Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u90	At the end of her speech, Mrs Van Toorenburg said that the CDA even wants the decryption order back. I know the CDA as a party that has always been the guardian of the rule of law. I actually hear the CDA say, "Put an axe in the toolbox so we can force someone to cooperate in his own conviction." That's a hell of a stretch. I really know the CDA as a party that has always delivered ministers of justice and good lawyers in all kinds of places. Now Mrs Van Toorenburg says this. Can she explain that for a moment? I don't believe what I'm hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u91	That's very good. Mr Verhoeven sums it up exactly wrong. You'll see he's not a lawyer. Someone is not forced to cooperate in his own conviction. This is also indicated in the WODC study. Someone can be forced to create a certain decryption, which may help us to prevent serious crimes. So it is not possible that you can convict yourself with what you then find. I think that's very difficult, because of course I'd like it to be possible. Next, we have an independent criminal offence, which was initially included in the legislative proposal. A very nice investigation has been done, at the request of the CDA. I'd have liked to have seen it in the law. I explained it quite extensively in the explanatory statement to our amendment. I think it's ready-to-use in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u92	Finalizing, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u93	Almost every advisor and expert, almost every organization of justice or the legal profession, has said: the decryption order, forcing people to cooperate in their own condemnation, you should not do that. The cabinet has said: we think that this is also unwise. I think all parties, except the CDA, agree. I'd like another explanation. The CDA does want a decryption order, but not that anyone is forced to cooperate in their own conviction. Did I get that correctly? I am not a lawyer, I am just a simple geographer, but I hope Mrs Van Toorenburg will take the trouble to answer my question, even if I am not a lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u94	Oh, you're so annoyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u95	Yes, of course. I would therefore prefer to hear Mrs Van Toorenburg not about my qualities, but about her proposal. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg, the CDA, want people to be forced to cooperate in their own condemnation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u96	The non-lawyer really doesn't get it. That's why I wanted to explain it right. It is always complicated for non-jurists where the boundary lies between cooperating in your own conviction and unlocking certain data. That's what's clearly stated here. There are countries where it is possible, and those are certainly not banana republics. There is an extensive legal regime with certain safeguards and legal protection in the United Kingdom. The data you eventually obtain through that decryption, you cannot use against the one you forced to cooperate with. That's what I'm talking about. Then maybe you can convict someone else with it. That's what I want. I'm gonna try to explain it differently. You're standing in front of a locked door and you're forcing someone to open that door. You can't catch the one you forced to open the door, but you can catch all the others behind it. That is what we are trying to propose. Because you can. Other countries have arranged it. I think it would be good to see if we can arrange that here as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u97	I took the amendment for a while. It says: to the defendant. But you're saying it's not meant for the defendant at all. Or am I missing the point of being a lawyer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u98	Oh, even lawyers don't get it anymore. Then it's gonna be a real challenge. A suspect is forced to cooperate. But what you find next, by definition, you can't use against that suspect. That's what I'm saying. For example, if it's a suspect in a terrorist network, you can't use what you find against Mr. A you forced to cooperate with, but against Mr. B with whom he's in a criminal network. Fortunately, the Secretary of State has accepted another proposal from us, which could apply to many more people. You can't use what you find by forcing someone against that person. But you can do that to others you've found because of the information that that person had to decrypt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u99	So Apple can't be forced to cooperate, see that American case because Apple isn't a suspect in the same case. But a co-suspect may be forced into a case to provide evidence against a suspect. I do not read that distinction in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u100	Yeah, those are the legal guarantees I'm referring to. That's how other countries arranged it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u101	Mr. Chairman. Before going into the substance, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Toorenburg, who was the first female MP to speak on behalf of the SGP. Well, that's one of a kind today, isn't it? The purpose of the legislative proposal we are discussing today is to strengthen the legal instruments for the detection and prosecution of computer crime. This is necessary because of technological developments on the Internet and the use of computers for communication and data processing and storage. The legislative proposal extends existing criminal jurisdictions and introduces new criminal offences. I would like to start with two points which have been somewhat snowed under by the point I will be discussing afterwards, but these are points which are very desirable and which my group can also agree with. Firstly, it is proposed to protect computer data by criminalising the possession or disclosure of data obtained by a crime. In such a case, there is a question of data recovery. The seduction of minors to fornication and grooming is also punishable. Grooming is the unwelcome approach of children on the Internet, for example in chat rooms, with the aim of committing adulterous acts with them. In order to combat this better, it is also desirable to be able to use investigative officers, who pose as minors, the so-called decoys. Secondly, online trafficking fraud becomes punishable, providing goods or services on the Internet without the intention to actually deliver those goods. As we can often hear from the media, large numbers of buyers are affected by this. My group therefore welcomes the fact that these points are now regulated by law. Extending the Code of Criminal Law with these undesirable behaviours is also understandable in the light of developments, because at the moment it is not possible to prosecute someone for the recovery of data obtained by a crime. Also, prosecuting online trafficking fraud is very difficult, as is prosecuting the modern forms of sexual abuse of minors, seducing fornication or grooming, as I said. Without the use of a so-called decoy puber, it is virtually impossible to provide evidence of grooming. A separate criminalisation or the extension of powers under strict conditions is therefore the right way forward. Unfortunately, it has not been so long ago that paedophiles who have been tracked down with the help of the virtual girl Sweetie cannot be convicted because the law does not allow this. The bill we are talking about today criminalizes the seduction of minors, but, if I have read it correctly, not the seduction of minors. Ask the Secretary of State, is this correct? The decoy may as a rule be a police officer, but I'd like to hear a confirmation on this point. I have read that this does not include seduction by minors. I want that to be sharp, because as I said in the budget debate, we need legislation. It must be possible to actually condemn paedophiles who have been tracked down in this way. If this bill settles that, I'm very happy about it. If not, this should be further regulated. The proposals I have just mentioned are covered by the following subject: a new competence for designated investigators to secretly enter remotely under conditions in an automated work which will normally be a computer or a smartphone used by the suspect, not every citizen. Intrusion means breaching or circumvention of security in this bill. Once inside, investigative acts may be carried out. The condition is that the crime must in any case be a serious breach of the rule of law. Subsequently, the scope of the powers depends on the type of crime. In the case of a crime involving a prison sentence of four years or more, investigative acts may be carried out to establish the identity or location and communication may be recorded. In the case of a more serious offence, which is punishable by a prison sentence of eight years or more, it is permitted to establish the identity or location, to record communication, but also to record and make inaccessible the supplementary part of the offence. There is therefore differentiation: the degree of infringement depends on the seriousness of the crime. The reason is the intrusive and collusive nature of the proposed power. In all cases, prior authorisation from the Judge Commissioner is required. Because of this new power, the bill is known as "hack proposal." However, it is not that serious. I only once looked it up in the Van Dale and it says hacking is breaking into a computer. Breaking and entering is defined as: unlawful, so without permission, and giving access by force for the purpose of stealing. The police will not unauthorized access to a computer. The legislative proposal lays down that competence by law. As I have said before, prior to the use of the power, permission from the Judge Commissioner is required. The proposals for the power to enter computers or any other automated work are a response to developments in the field of Internet and computer crime. Unfortunately, it is increasingly difficult for the police to obtain information via a "ordinary tap." This has to do with encryption and cloud services and the fact that service providers are often untraceable or are abroad, which means that the Netherlands has no jurisdiction to tap. Breaking into the source, the device itself, which is in use with the suspect, circumvents this problem. Also, a decryption order is no longer required, because the police can access the data before it's encrypted. The essence of the discussion on the legislative proposal is actually to weigh up the importance of detecting and prosecuting serious crimes, not just cybercrime, on the one hand, and protecting privacy on the other. The Secretary of State also made it clear in his letter of 8 November. I have made the following quote: "In the pursuit of an open, free and secure internet, the various interests must be taken into account. These interests are in most cases in line with each other, but there is also a need for a balance of interests, for example between security and freedoms, or between different security interests." As far as my group is concerned, the detection and prosecution of serious crimes which cannot be detected in any other way than by using the proposed powers. However, the breach of privacy should be as small as possible and there should also be good safeguards. There are a number of them already in the legislative proposal, but my group still has a number of questions. Firstly, the safeguards are laid down, inter alia, in the Decision on technical means of criminal procedure. This date back to 2006. The Secretary of State himself has indicated that this decision is outdated and is being adapted to the legislative proposal. My group believes that this decision should be amended before the law enters into force. These are technical tools used for systematic observation, recording confidential communications and recording telecommunications without the supplier being aware of this. These tools are used to make observations that replace the detective's own observation. The results obtained from these tools are thus increasingly self-evident, including as evidence against the suspect. This requires the tools to meet high quality requirements and the rules on this to be up-to-date. According to the explanatory memorandum to the relevant article of law in the explanatory memorandum, there are three interests. The observation shall be reliable, testable and unmanipulated for third parties. Is the Secretary of State prepared to amend the decision so that it is settled before the legislative proposal enters into force? Secondly, one speaker in the hearing mentioned the critical point that the group of offences for which the competence can be used is too large. According to the speaker, it would be an improvement if the crimes were specifically described. For example: life crimes, child pornography and terrorism. My group understands this wish. However, I can also see that too close a description of problems can arise, because we have also heard the example of a situation in which a hostage-taking was put to an end by the police invading the cameras there. Nevertheless, we are not deaf to the fears of many who simply do not trust the government. However, I also see, and that is the other point, that criminals have a lead over the investigation services, and my group does not want that either. It is true that this also has to do with the available budget, but we have talked about this on a number of occasions, and we are going to talk about this more often. This raises the question to the Secretary of State whether he is prepared to limit the proposed competence to a number of crimes mentioned in particular. They are on page 29 of the explanatory statement and I shall list them for the Acts. It includes participation in a terrorist organisation, trafficking in human beings, professional offering, spreading or possessing child pornography, intentional deprivation of liberty, hostageage, manslaughter and murder. I think that this is a guarantee that innocent citizens, I would call them even so confident that their computer will not be hacked. My group is not deaf to that call and fear, as I said. There has also been a whole discussion about entering through known vulnerabilities and the said zero-days, either unknown vulnerabilities to the manufacturer in the hardware or software. I understand from the explanatory statement that the police are most likely to use existing vulnerabilities in the system to penetrate automated work. As far as my group is concerned, this agreement is on the crimes I have just listed. After all, you are also somewhat responsible for securing your computer and you need to install the updates that the manufacturer makes available. The fact that the police report an unknown vulnerability called zero-day, as it is called with such a beautiful word, in principle does not necessarily make the Internet safer, but also does not make it more unsafe. It is also about the goal of catching serious criminals. I understand, like I said. However, in his letter of 8 November, which I just referred to, the Secretary of State also states that there are exceptions to the police reporting of the vulnerabilities discovered, for example, those referred to in particular in the case of national security. Reference is made to an armed conflict. As soon as possible, the vulnerability will still be reported by the police. However, "in principle" also means that it is not excluded. Does my group understand that the Secretary of State does not exclude that the police and/or the Public Prosecutor's Office are somehow going to create new vulnerabilities and, if so, my group does not agree with this, and what possible new vulnerabilities are being considered? Then the answer to the question of whether the Internet is becoming more unsafe is to look different. My group also considers it important to prevent the appearance of conflict of interest. It is either it feels at least contradictory that the National Cyber Security Centre detects risks or weaknesses in software and that the police are going to use them. They are both covered by the Ministry of Security and Justice or by the government, if in a subsequent cabinet period the police are covered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. My group is not in favour of this, but we are not ruling out anything. My group also wants to know whether it is possible for the police, for example, to ask KPN to wait for an update or to restore a weakness so that it can still use it. That should not be the case, because then a weakness will be maintained which should otherwise have been reported. That was also a bit the reason for my question to Mrs Tellegen about her amendment. During the hearing, it was stated that the powers provided for in the legislative proposal are not necessary and that there is simply a need for better international cooperation. My group is always in favour of good international cooperation, but we must also be realistic. A request for legal aid has not been dealt with within a day and, of course, speed is required in such cases. My group also understands that it is a far-reaching competence. We do not, however, like it if the Netherlands does not like it when another country sits in our computers without us knowing it, even though that country has that power and is a suspect of a serious crime. That is why my question to the Secretary of State is how he will deal with this. Is it not useful, for example, for distance access to automated work abroad to be contacted with the country concerned or, for example, with Europol or Interpol, with the request to work together? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Finally, we cannot be deaf to the justified criticism that entering a suspect's computer system may also affect computer systems of non-suspects. Does the Secretary of State see an opportunity to address these concerns, for example in the form of ex post supervision by an external, independent committee? My group cannot imagine that the police would object to this, as long as it is not obstructed in its work. I think the same should apply to the D.A.'s office. But I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if that assumption is correct. I await the answers of the Secretary of State before my group can take a final decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u102	I have another question on that last point, namely that independent ex post supervision. In my view, that is the law, namely in the form of system supervision by the Safety and Justice Inspectorate. That's how I read it. Is Mrs Helder asking this question because she does not think that is enough? How am I supposed to explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u103	Yes, indeed, I am asking because my group does not think that this is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u104	Why, according to Mrs Helder, is this not enough? Is it insufficient because of lack of knowledge? Or does it consider that supervision by that inspection is not sufficiently independent? What's the objection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u105	It's not independent enough. Supervision must be at a greater distance, given the intrusive competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u106	Mr. Chairman. This bill is in a long tradition, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, not undivided. Over the past decades, efforts have been made to keep up with the rapid developments in information and communication technology, and the increasing threats and vulnerabilities of cybersecurity in the Code of Criminal Procedure. I suggest that GroenLinks also sees the dangers of cybercrime. The nature of cyberspace offences is becoming more serious and the extent of these offences is increasing. Cybercrime has the future. That's what the police and the justice system need to respond to. My group therefore recognises the existence of the problems outlined by the VVD and the CDA. My group does not say that it is total nonsense and that these problems do not exist. We only disagree on how they should be dealt with. How can we combat these problems effectively while respecting fundamental rights? We attach greater importance to these fundamental rights than some other parties in the Chamber. GroenLinks supports the position of the Council of State, which should be able to make use of the new technological possibilities in the fight against serious crimes, but within the limits of the constitutional and treaty-protected right to respect for privacy. For GroenLinks, the extension of investigative powers is therefore certainly not self-evident. The Code of Criminal Procedure offers a huge arsenal of powers that can be applied independently of technology. In addition, with the entry into force of the instalments of computer crime I and computer crime II, a large number of investigative powers have been introduced focusing specifically on the digital environment. According to the State Secretary, the need for new competence lies in the evolving technology, and the widespread use of automated systems for communication and for the processing and storage of data. A specific justification of his claim that existing powers would be inadequate does not give the Secretary of State. Why wouldn't an Internet tap be useful anymore? Why can't the Secretary of State, for example, keep the Internet traffic data that providers already keep for a long time for their own business? I strongly invite the Secretary of State to give this justification article by article on the existing investigative powers. So I really want to hear an explanation. Why, in addition to the standard arsenal, and in addition to the possibilities in computer crime I and computer crime II, does a set of fairly far-reaching powers now need yet again? After all, it is crazy to intervene too deeply in privacy and introduce investigative powers without referring to the Constitution and the human rights treaties signed by the Netherlands. We may want this for ourselves for the Netherlands, but we have also signed a large number of treaties. It is not yet clear to my group how these far-reaching infringements relate to those treaties. The Secretary of State can undoubtedly shed some light on that; I see him typing everything on his computer screen. The government is represented by Secretary of State Dijkhoff as guardian of digital space. He asks us to agree to far-reaching investigative powers with a rather poor argument, my group believes. Unfortunately, that's what we've been getting used to. We also belonged to the CDA and the VVD: "Let's just do that. The cops don't do anything for her fun. We all want to catch bad guys, don't we? Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, And with that talk about small details such as fundamental rights, GroenLinks and D66 should stop for once." I have made a whole speech about what the German Supreme Court has said. This has made a very careful weighting between fundamental rights and investigative powers. The German police are certainly not disgusting about using opportunities to catch criminals. They're not just solving sudokus for fun either. They have said that this can only be done if there is a life-threatening circumstance or if the survival of the State is in danger. We seem to think that the Germans are working rather dullly by not working harder. That is why I want to know from the Secretary of State why the German approach leaves so many gaps for terrorists and paedophiles that we have to deal with this so much more strictly here in the Netherlands. Whatever I want to know from the Secretary of State, I have tried to make myself clear in interrupting debates, but I feel that my colleagues did not understand me. The Internet does not end at our borders, so it does not help to have legislation that is allowed only in the Netherlands. If this competence is a criminal act abroad, we really have a problem. If the Germans say that this is simply not allowed on German servers, if we have nicely given our police permission to hack and if there are German servers among them, is the police in violation or not? Is that okay? Who controls that? How do we know that? That kind of question must be answered before we adopt this law. What is absolutely indigestible in the specific case of this bill is the conflicting public interest in cyberspace. Michiel Steltman, director of the Digital Infrastructure Netherlands Foundation, said in Trouw on sinterklaas, December 5, that the Dutch cybersecurity policy is fragmented and has strange contradictions. The cabinet considers encryption and information protection crucial. The Prime Minister is calling on us to take our security seriously. Ministers using gmail are urged to do so via secure servers. The same applies to people who use banking services. So we constantly say: secure it, secure it, secure it! At the same time, police and justice are complaining about that encryption because they can't reach it anymore. What's the announcement from the government? Is that: make sure you've secured and encrypted as much as possible, so that if you encounter a leak, you report it directly to the person who can close that leak, and so that you have it closed as much as possible? Or is it: leave the whole thing open, because then we can go in and catch criminals? And do we want that for a whole set of misdemeanors? It is even said that eight years may also be six years. Then we'll probably get someone who underbids that and says, well, six years; crimes on which four years stand are also very nasty crimes, so let's make that even easier. In several interruptions we have had discussions about these zero-days. Leaks that exist in computer systems do not happen to be detected by our police; they consciously use that zero-day to get in at all. There's a lively trade in it. That's what we read in the Secretary of State's letter. Even governments seem to buy these things to use the security gaps. I have not yet heard clearly from the parties on the right that they say with GroenLinks that a government must, of course, buy zero-days that are not illegally obtained in order to be able to access systems to catch criminals. I would like to hear that from my colleagues in the second term. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State exactly what the legal status of zero-days is. And how many times have these security gaps been used by the police, the justice system and the IVDs? We heard Mrs Van Toorenburg say that they are now being used very little. She thought: it will continue to be so, even if it is to be permitted by law. What's the deal with that? Do we use them? This calls at least for the moral issue to be widely informed about the dangers of this type of gap. From the letter of 8 November from the Secretary of State, I conclude that we do not have to count on it. The cabinet believes that zero-days offer opportunities to enter computer work for magical reasons. Can the Secretary of State report exactly how often and why the Cabinet has made use of these possibilities? Why is that legally admissible? And is my assumption that the application of zero-days, for which the competence discussed in this bill is required, is currently illegal until this bill is law? The Secretary of State shakes his head, but I'd like to hear the answer later. GroenLinks believes that the government should keep away from this type of practice. They contribute to the maintenance of a very undesirable trade in security gaps. We can suspect that there will be some horrible consequences. With Bits of Freedom, GroenLinks fears unacceptable cybersecurity risks by using zero-day exploits. I do not have the illusion that the Secretary of State is therefore to refrain from his intentions. How exactly is he going to prevent government intervention from helping evildoers? German security researchers have found that the software used for police hacks is quite easy to crack. As a result, in addition to the police, malicious people can also gain access to the hacked systems. It is open not only to the police but to all kinds of unwanted people. I would like a substantiated assurance that this cannot be done in Dutch practice. If such an assurance cannot be given, then I think that this whole idea should be abandoned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u107	Maybe it's a bummer, but you're making it a point of your own: in Germany, you can't hack at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u108	I don't hear the question right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u109	You are now saying that German experts have concluded that hacking the police is vulnerable, but before that you said that it is incredibly tight in Germany and there is no hacking power there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u110	No, I have recalled the German Supreme Court's ruling which limits it further. It can only be done in Germany if there is a life-threatening circumstance or if the survival of the State is in danger. According to the German judgment, the continued existence of the State is at stake from time to time in the event of terrorist attacks. It is therefore still possible, but much more limited than in this Dutch proposal. This proposal is based on any crime that has been committed for eight years or more. In Germany, that border is much higher. That does not mean never, but in a much smaller number of cases. German security researchers have found that others could also access the software used by the police in computer hacks. That is exactly the problem that GroenLinks has with this. So rather not at all, but if you do it, in the footsteps of Germany, only in very specific cases. I also advocate limiting the number of devices on which this can be done: not on your smartwatch, your boat and your car, but very limited. It remains unclear to me what exactly the Secretary of State means in this respect by "automated work." We would like a clear answer to that. So not: everything with just a little bit of automation in it. Is it car control data? What does the Secretary of State think of the RAI Association's emergency cry? What about medical devices, tractors, boats, smartwatch, smart TV, your home security system, your fridge doing groceries for you? There are a lot of different medical applications that are automated. Can we all go in there? So we would like to have a final definition or a exhaustive list. To what extent is a police hack prevented from affecting the functioning of work, which, for example, affects human functioning? Health care innovates as quickly as many other sectors. Many medical examinations are carried out remotely with digital measuring equipment. Is there any possibility that these criminal investigation powers may also be applied to that? These powers are framed by the Cabinet as being in line with technological developments. IT people tell me that this kind of powers is indeed conceivable in the case of a botnet, for example, and against attacks on vital ICT infrastructure. I ask the Secretary of State to reflect once again on the views of Professor of ICT Law Bart Jacobs, who claims that these powers for normal detection are clearly unsuitable. Fox-IT top man Ronald Prins said when submitting this bill by Minister Opstelten that he would rather not see this kind of authority being used in the detection of more traditional crimes. In addition, it makes a lot of difference to the depth of privacy whether the computer work is being addressed sec or whether webcams and microphones are being taken over, which further undermines the privacy of the person being investigated, the possible suspect. This should be differentiated in the legislation. The Secretary of State remains a little vague on this point for me. So I'd like to get a reaction to that. I have another question about government malware. If the government actively puts malware on an automated work, is it obstruction of a police investigation if you remove it or are you allowed to do so if you encounter it? How does that work? The main difference between analogue and digital crime is perhaps that you cannot always determine exactly where the perpetrators and the victims are and where the crime takes place. Computer crime regularly crosses borders. This raises problems of jurisdiction. I have already mentioned this with a number of colleagues in the questions. The explanatory statement is rather light on that point. The judge-supervisor may assume that the prosecutor authorised to act complies with the rules of international cooperation, but I know that the core of the rule of law is not trust, but supervision. What exactly are those rules in the field of international cooperation? Who can check that the district attorney actually complies with that? How does the Public Prosecutor report to the Judge Commissioner and the Criminal Court on how he has exercised his cross-border jurisdiction? And above all, is the assumption that it is sufficient for cross-border digital detection to comply with the rules? It's an interesting position. In the letter from Mr. Baardman, senior councilman at the Court of Justice The Hague, we read that there is currently no international legal basis for the use of this competence on automated works located outside the Netherlands. If there are no international rules, how can the Secretary of State tell us that our people are going to abide by them? Beardman does not wrongly assume that Dutch policemen, considered under the law of many other countries, are guilty of computer trespassing. I tried to show this clearly in response to the German example. Popular cloud services are often located in the United States. Shouldn't the usual legal aid application simply be used if there is a suspicion of where the computer work will be found? I understand that this kind of publicity is undesirable from the research point of view, but does international law not oppose this kind of extraterritorial claim? How does the Netherlands, in reverse, deal with the application of such powers by, for example, the Russian authorities to computer works located in the Netherlands? Are we okay if the Russians use vulnerabilities in our automated works and if they do not report that these vulnerabilities are in there because they want to use them to catch Russian criminals? That's what the Secretary of State wants, I hope, to keep an eye on, isn't it? He also wants to anchor as much as possible to the law or to close those vulnerabilities as quickly as possible, especially in the knowledge that the application of some hacks can cause permanent damage to a computer work? I come to the powers themselves. Like the Dutch order of lawyers, I wonder exactly what need gives rise to such far-reaching powers as secretly spying on citizens. I call on the Secretary of State to give concrete and numerical examples that underpin the need. What does the Secretary of State think about limiting these powers to cases where there is genuine cybercrime and where there is a risk of injury or death or a risk of freedom and property? GroenLinks attaches great importance to judicial supervision of the application of these investigative powers. In the opinion of GroenLinks, this monitoring is inadequate. For this purpose, the District Attorney needs an authorisation from the Judge Commissioner. If the Public Prosecutor does not choose to extend the application of jurisdiction, there is no subsequent judicial review of the application. That is, in view of the depth, very undesirable. How is this state-law gap addressed? Independent supervision similar to the CTIVD is urgently needed; the PVV has already asked for this. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u111	Mr. Chairman. I have had a lot of debates over the last six years, but rarely have I been so concerned here. My concern is just that we're making a dangerous mistake here. I have never asked for a 75-minute speaking time. I am not very broad-minded anyway, but I will really need that time to convey my concerns in a nuanced and thought-out way and to explain my proposals that would make this law sustainable for D66. I hope that I can convince you, Mr President, the people at home and my colleagues in the next hour and fifteen minutes with substantive arguments that this bill needs to be amended. I do so with arguments in the areas of security, democracy, economy, privacy and geopolitics. Today we are talking about the Computer Crime Act III, a large law with a number of different parts: the hacking power, but also the inaccessibility of data, grooming and online healing and trade fraud. The law grants the police, the Royal Marechaussee and the FIOD very heavy powers and has great negative consequences for our security. Before I go into the biggest part of this law, namely the hacking power, I have a few questions about the other parts, first of all about the inaccessibility. We have in the Netherlands a very good Code of Conduct Notice-and-Take-Down. If you don't get out, the hallway to the judge is always open. In practice, however, we see that the police and the judiciary often try to circumvent this code of conduct and put pressure on the companies involved. This legislative amendment seems to facilitate this and the Code of Conduct Notice-and-Take-Down seems to be running out. The Council of State has also pointed out the tension with freedom of expression. A censoring internet police is the last thing you can expect from a VVD cabinet. It is therefore a good thing that the Judge Commissioner has been appointed to make that weighting between making the importance of inaccessible and making freedom of expression careful and that the Judge Commissioner first hears the provider before making the decision. It is a good thing that this is in the hands of the judge, but I would like the Secretary of State's guarantee that this inaccessibility will only apply to serious crimes and not sneaking around, for example, to gamble cases. That is in the law, but I would like to hear it from him, because this bill also contains an AMvB, a General Measure of Governance, in which the Secretary of State adds all kinds of crimes which are punishable much less than eight years and which could be subject to the powers. This power then threatens to become a kind of carte blanche. That's what D66 is all about. So we would like to be guaranteed by the Secretary of State that this is the category of really serious crimes, precisely because the Public Prosecutor himself states that he does not want to be a censoring Internet police, but wants to use this power to target criminals. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. My group agrees with the other elements of the law on grooming, online healing and trade fraud. I welcome the fact that the Cabinet has taken out the decryption order. You can't ask people to cooperate with their own convictions. That would put the axe that Mrs Van Toorenburg has in her tool kit at the root of the rule of law. I'm coming up on hacking. The reason for this bill is not simply technological change, such as the increase in the use of encryption, wireless networks and cloud services by criminals. It is also far too simplistic to say that criminals use encryption and that the police should therefore be able to hack. That's too simple a thought. Indeed, we cannot separate the increase in the use of encryption, wireless networks and cloud services from much greater development, the digitisation of our society. Nor can we judge new powers solely on the implications for the search possibilities, without overlooking the consequences for our security, our economy, our democracy, our privacy and our geopolitical situation. Of course, in recent decades, much has changed in the way we communicate with each other. Instead of calling over the landline, we use more and more chat apps. Much has also changed in the way we seek information. Instead of taking a trip to the library, we google everything we want to know. A lot has changed in the way we bank. From cash in an envelope we go to pay by phone, with our smartphone. Almost every aspect of our lives has been completely changed by digitalization. Work, leisure, communication, the relationship with the government, money, transport: everything. There is hardly any aspect of our lives where digitalisation does not matter. This has also greatly increased the importance of digital technology. This importance will only increase further. After all, we are connecting more and more devices to the Internet: watches, thermostats, refrigerators, toy dolls, medical devices, pacemakers, etc. In the near future we will be dealing with self-driving cars, factories with only robots, algorithms that make decisions for and about us, artificial intelligence and so on. In short, digital technology is an essential part of our everyday lives and is essential for our economy and our society. That interest, I say again, will only increase in the future. This will have consequences, in economic terms, for our freedom, for our security and for the cohesion of our society. It is not for nothing that we have repeatedly asked the cabinet to come up with a coherent vision of this. Unfortunately, we in the House of Representatives, especially on this subject, have too many partial discussions, without wanting to see the underlying links. Investigation aspects are discussed separately from economic developments. Developments in big data are discussed regardless of privacy concerns. Security aspects are seen separately from the impact on society as a whole. This fragmentation is a dangerous development in a debate that deals precisely with the issue of cohesion and the crossing of borders. A lot of subjects and aspects touch each other in this respect. Today, too, it is only about criminals using digital technologies, without being seen in the wider context of digitalising society and without looking at the wider implications of the present hacking power for our security, our democracy, our economy, our privacy and the geopolitical situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u112	I had to look at the amendment, namely the amendment to item No. 20 by Mr Verhoeven. He wants to limit the scope of the concept of "automated work." My group sees more as limiting the number of crimes. I heard Mr Verhoeven speak about this too. That brings me to the next question. My group wants to take a critical look at the powers in the legislative proposal. As the Secretary of State who is limited to the serious crimes I mentioned in my speech, my group is keen to take a positive look at them. Does this also apply to D66? Or should the concept of "automated work" be further reduced, as proposed in the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u113	We have tabled five amendments. Two are about restricting this power. One is about the type of crimes to which this competence may be applied, the other is about the scope of the type of automated work, the devices, so to speak. We both think it's important. I'm standing here with a 75-minute story, but not because I already know what I'm gonna do with this law. I would find that extremely strange of myself. Then it's a number. I hope colleagues will support my five amendments. I also hope that the Secretary of State will take a fundamental and thorough look at the questions I am about to ask, because I have not yet received an answer on a number of points. That is what we are looking at, and that is what we are going to consider. We are open, constructive and without knowing what it is going to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u114	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u115	In answering the written questions, the cabinet refers to the letter about zero-days. To be honest, I thought that was a bit of a weakness offer. It could have been otherwise. A lot of questions have been asked about this point. The letter of a number of sides from a few months ago was not the appropriate way to reply. So I will be asking questions about this later. I found that disappointing, because it makes sure that we are perhaps making a big mistake here by adopting a law without having properly assessed and weighed the consequences. The fact that criminals use new technologies to commit crimes is not new. In fact, it's as old as the road to Rome. Criminals are often even the early adopters of new technologies. That is no different with ICT. Cybercrime is nothing new. Already in 1994, Vladimir Levin stole $10 million from Citibank bank accounts from his apartment in St Petersburg. In collaboration with accomplices around the world, he transferred the money to bank accounts in Finland, the United States, the Netherlands, Germany and Israel. The same applies to viruses and malware. One of the oldest viruses ever, the so-called Brain virus, turned 30 this year. Since then, countless different viruses have been produced, according to the antivirus company Kaspersky Lab even up to 200,000 a day. These viruses are hard to stop by antivirus software, because according to researchers 95% of all malware could not be stopped by antivirus scanners. One of the reasons given by the researchers is the increase in the so-called zero-day attacks, i.e. attacks that use unknown vulnerabilities, i.e. vulnerabilities in the software that are not yet known to the creator of that software. That is a fundamental part of the law. So I will also go into this in detail. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the great impact cybercrime has on our society. First of all, it just costs a lot of money. In the Netherlands alone, cybercrime and espionage cost around 10 billion a year. Not only are our residents a target, but our companies are also an attractive target. There are more and more examples of economic espionage through hacking. This legislative proposal also has a geopolitical aspect. Indeed, the AIVD warns that such cyber espionage could undermine our competitiveness. China has an army of 180,000 hackers. They are all in the process of achieving strategic economic, military and political benefits. We already have trouble attracting 150 cyber-reservists. So we're never gonna win that battle over China. Because of the economic and strategic geopolitical aspect, the Netherlands has a strong interest in a secure internet. Using and withholding public vulnerabilities, which makes the bill we are discussing today possible, could seriously undermine that interest. However, we do not read anything about this in the law, in the explanatory memorandum or in the note on the report. Cybercrime has also become a physical component in recent years. These include vehicles such as hacked cars, tram systems and even aircraft and drones, but also medical devices such as pacemakers, hearing aids and equipment in the hospital, critical infrastructure such as quays and power plants, as well as household appliances such as webcams, refrigerators and thermostats. They are now being used, for example via the Mirai botnet, for dpos attacks and for sending spam. These developments are not so much about privacy, money or business secrets. It's mostly about physical safety. Let me give you a few examples. In 1998, a teenager managed to disrupt communication between incoming aircraft and the control tower in Washington, Massachusetts and turn off the runway runway lights. In 2001, a hacker attacked a sewage treatment plant in Queensland, Australia. He flooded millions of litres of sewage in local parks and rivers, with major consequences for local biodiversity and health risks for residents. In January 2008, four trams crashed together in Lodz, Poland. Dozens of passengers were injured, and miracles beyond wonder, no one died. Turned out what? A 14-year-old hacker had hacked the tram system for fun and derailed the trams. In 2011, Russian hackers probably managed to destroy a water treatment plant in Houston, Texas. Our energy infrastructure is also vulnerable. On 23 December 2015, for example, a power plant in Ukraine was hacked and 80,000 people were without electricity. Between 2005 and 2007, there were several attacks on the energy network in Rio de Janeiro. In addition, 3 million people ran out of energy. I hope, therefore, that I do not have to explain that this can lead to life-threatening situations, in addition to the enormous economic damage. In recent years, researchers have also highlighted the possibilities of hacking cars. The modern car is a computer on wheels. Researchers could hack the car remotely and control the accelerator or disable brakes to cause someone to crash. The same applies to medical devices such as pacemakers or devices to measure heart rate or blood sugar levels. A hacker could simply manipulate the transmission of data and put such a person in mortal danger. We should therefore not underestimate the enormous social impact of hacks on vulnerable, internet-connected devices and internet-connected infrastructure. The use and retention of vulnerabilities by the government, as proposed by the Cabinet through this law, can make such hacks easier to perform and more frequent. That is also admitted by the Cabinet in its own letter about the zero-days. I quote: 'Letting a vulnerability persist may pose a risk to more victims of crime'. That's literally in a cabinet letter. And that is exactly what the cabinet is proposing. This is therefore extremely inconsistent, inconsistent but, above all, unwise. More traditional hacks in computers and ICT systems can also be very damaging to our security. In 2013, for example, the American retail chain Target was hacked. The unsubs took the credit card records from 40 million people. This type of hacked credit card data is also used to finance terrorist activities. Both the 2004 attack in Madrid and the 2005 attack in London were at least partly financed through hacked credit cards. This too is an argument that you have to weigh in with the decision to allow the government to use and withhold vulnerabilities. Finally, we are also increasingly seeing unsafe devices being used for child abuse. Maybe it's a good thing that especially the CDA and the VVD keep a close eye on that. More and more we see that paedophiles approach minors on chat rooms or on social media, after which they try to hack into these children's webcam or phone and then take unnoticed nude photos and blackmail the girls to do more. These are pedophiles' practices that we see all over the world. The images are then distributed on the darknet, on websites that can only be seen with a Tor browser. "Tor" is the abbreviation of "The onion router," a special network that anonymizes users. I don't have to explain that to all these lawyers. If you then as a government maintain the vulnerabilities in webcams, mobiles or tablets, you should also take into account that you maintain vulnerabilities that pedophiles use to hack minors. The webcam of someone suspected of being false in writing or of an environmental crime may be of the same type as the webcam in the bedroom of a 12-year-old girl, who is therefore also vulnerable to a hack by a pedophile. Cybercrime is not new, it is increasingly part of criminal acts. And cybercrime is no longer a crime with only digital consequences. Cybercrime has real consequences for our physical safety and the safety of our children. For our democracy, too, a secure Internet is important, even crucial. Look at the developments in the United States. Clinton kept an easily hackable private mail server. The Democratic National Committee was hacked during the campaign. The CIA has even said that Russia has indeed tried to influence the elections. In short, a secure Internet is also important for our democracy. This importance will only increase in the coming period. We also need to see this bill in the context of a time when people's privacy is under increasing pressure. That started years ago with unsolicited tracking of people via cookies and other trackers. Even today, people have too few opportunities not to be followed by all kinds of agencies, especially companies that follow people for commercial profit and their browsing behaviour on the Internet. Almost every app we install on our smartphones requires permission to share personal data with large data collection companies like Acxiom, a company that uses profiles of hundreds of millions of perhaps billions of people. These are profiles with specifications such as name, gender, race, telephone number, level of education, income, age, height, health problems, political preference, profession and so on. As a result, people feel less and less free online. They wonder whether they can still seek information without others finding out. For example, think of a teenager who has homosexual feelings or a student who wants to look up information about STDs. Al Gore already called it the "stalker economy," and rightly so, because all this information available can have major consequences. With all this information, for example, it can be assessed with great certainty whether someone is homosexual. This is not a problem in the Netherlands, but in 76 countries in the world homosexuality is still illegal. In countries such as Sudan, Iran, Yemen, Nigeria and Saudi Arabia there is even the death penalty. For me as a liberal, this kind of restriction of the individual's freedom is unacceptable. Then we also have the revelations of Snowden. He revealed that U.S. and British intelligence services were collecting massive amounts of information about everything and everyone, probably also about millions of innocent Dutch people. In addition, it became known that these intelligence services were trying to undermine encryption, that they could almost everyone and hack and that all that information, so almost everything someone does online, via a search engine called the XKeyscore, could be searched. Against this background, it is no wonder that people try to protect themselves online if the government lets it go, for example through encryption, by using a Virtual Private Network (VPN) or by using adblockers. So people can shake off the digital man with the raincoat and holes in the newspaper. Against this background, it is no wonder that people are questioning more powers for governments to hack and apply mass surveillance. Furthermore, we will come back to the latter in detail when we deal with the new Act on Intelligence and Security Services. Soon this new law will also be dealt with in the House of Representatives. The Computer Crime Act III, as I said earlier, does not stand alone in various debates with my colleagues. He's surrounded by other laws. This concerns, for example, the AIVD and STIVD tapping power and the retention obligation for telecom providers. The need for these laws has hardly been substantiated. Those laws overlap and limit our personal freedom. The effectiveness of those laws is anything but clear. The most important point is that these laws have major disadvantages. Hacking through vulnerabilities makes the internet unsafe and drag nets lead to data mountains that are counterproductive. So these laws don't make people safer. I think it is very important to emphasise this here. It's not just about privacy that matters to us. We are also concerned with effectiveness: does a law like this work? I have given various reasons, in terms of security, economics, geopolitics, democracy and privacy, why we should strive for a secure internet. That brings me to the next part of my speech, in which I will explain why I think this law makes the Internet more unsafe. The legislative proposal before us today relates to the improvement and strengthening of the detection and prosecution of cybercrime. The big problem with this bill is that it doesn't do that. This law is not a solution to the increase in computer crime, as I have just outlined. This law will not make for less ddos attacks. This law will not create fewer hacked business secrets. This law will also not allow for less hacked webcams, to name but one example. It has been discussed for a while in the debate on the interruptions, but I think it would be a good idea if I could give one more indication of where my main concern is. Many cybercrime happens through the abuse of vulnerabilities in software. This bill does nothing to close those vulnerabilities. In fact, I should say: quite the contrary. This bill ensures that such vulnerabilities remain open. As a result, our devices, smartphones, tablets and laptops remain unsafe. Actually, this bill makes them more unsafe, because the government gets an incentive to keep the vulnerabilities secret so that they remain open to use. In the next 53 minutes, the Secretary of State can very often shake no and pretend I'm telling tales, as if it's all wrong with what I'm saying. Then Mrs Van Toorenburg will welcome him with a strong yes. But it's literally in this bill. The cabinet does not deny anywhere that it is excluded that the police can use vulnerabilities that they do not close. That is a fundamental point and I really hope that the Secretary of State, rather than simply shaking no, will actually refute my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u116	So far, I've understood the argument. It was a bit broad-mouthed and meandering, but now we get to the law. But now I'm missing it. There are vulnerabilities. Some skills say there are a lot of vulnerabilities in relevant software. If the government doesn't do anything, those vulnerabilities will just continue to exist. Now this law comes and then the government can use one of those vulnerabilities to get into an automated system. This vulnerability must then be reported and closed. How does that relate to the story of Mr Verhoeven, who says: the government uses vulnerabilities and therefore they are not poached, but rather remain open? If the government didn't do anything, they wouldn't be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u117	This law makes it possible for public authorities to exploit existing vulnerabilities and then leave them open for longer than is strictly necessary. Nowhere in the bill is it made clear that the government will close them quickly. That's point one. But this bill also makes it possible for the government to search and purchase software in all kinds of places, for example at a company like HackingTeam, but also on all kinds of dark websites. Then the government may not even know what the vulnerabilities in that software are, but they do buy and use it. Then the government really can't close them. That is really not the case. If Mr Recourt thinks so, I hope he will, I would almost say. But this bill just doesn't make it hard. It is possible in several ways that the government will have an interest, an incentive, not to close vulnerabilities, or to buy vulnerabilities that it doesn't even know how to work, so that they can't be reported and closed. That's just what makes this law possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u118	Mr Recourt has a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u119	This bill introduces the reporting obligation. The moment you use a vulnerability, you have to report it and that vulnerability is healed, poem. I do not understand Mr Verhoeven's reasoning that the government should keep it open. Isn't that what this reporting obligation is for? The moment the government doesn't do this, that vulnerability remains open. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u120	A short reaction, after which you can continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u121	The government gets an interest in having vulnerabilities that it can use to hack. So the government has no interest in closing those vulnerabilities. No, she has an interest in keeping them open. Mr Recourt is probably in all honesty assuming that the government is now closing all kinds of vulnerabilities in the Internet, but that is exactly the opposite of what this law is about. This law aims to allow the government to use vulnerabilities to hack. As long as they are not reported and can therefore be closed by a manufacturer, those vulnerabilities can be used by anyone. They can be used by anyone, not just by the police, who, as Mrs Van Toorenburg says, is not our enemy. Absolutely, the police are our friends, but Chinese hackers can get through those vulnerabilities. And very smart cybercriminals can pass through those vulnerabilities. And child pornography and paedophiles can also use those vulnerabilities to crack webcams. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u122	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u123	And I have not mentioned the second point yet. It's not like you can hack into one phone or smartphone of a criminal based on that vulnerability. That's sometimes thought: well, it's just a criminal's phone; it's got to be possible. No, all phones of the same type, which run on the same software, can be hacked by the same pedophile, by the same criminal. That's really what's going on here. Anyone with good intentions can say that the police are really going to use the powers and exercise a great deal of care, and that there are a lot of safeguards in the law, which is true, but I make the point that vulnerabilities can remain open. In fact, the police can buy new, unknown vulnerabilities from dark markets or sinister companies without being able to close or report them, because they do not even know the vulnerabilities. It exists in this law, and I am very much concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u124	That's obvious. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u125	And I will use the next 53 minutes to convey that concern to my colleagues. This law will not reduce ddos attacks and less hacked business secrets and less hacked webcams. Cybercrime takes place using software vulnerabilities. This bill doesn't do anything to close those vulnerabilities. In fact, this bill keeps those vulnerabilities open. As a result, our devices, smartphones, tablets and laptops remain unsafe. Actually, this bill makes them even more unsafe, because the government gets an incentive to keep the vulnerabilities secret so that they remain open to use. Because the Secretary of State doesn't even want to rule out the police buying hacking software from a company like HackingTeam, this bill even stimulates the trade in vulnerabilities. And that would make the Internet even more unsafe. Hackers will sell vulnerabilities to such shady companies instead of to the software maker, who can close the vulnerability. This makes devices more unsafe, resulting in more hacks, hacks by foreign intelligence agencies to loot business secrets, hacks by criminals to collect credit card data, hacks by paedophiles on minors' webcams. It is as if we ask everyone in the Netherlands to open the back door in case the police have to be able to invade a house somewhere in the Netherlands. Meanwhile, the first person inside you is a criminal. That back door also gives access not only to your own house, but also to all other houses from the same year of construction. This is how software works: anyone who can invade one iPhone can invade all iPhones of the same type. What this law does do is give the police a far-reaching power to detect suspects of traditional crimes: people suspected of murder or manslaughter, but also people suspected of falsehood in writing or an environmental crime. Lying on your résumé gets serious consequences. In addition, the Secretary of State may, without control by the House of Representatives, draw up a General Measure of Management with a list of crimes for which the hacking power applies. So that's a blank check. The Secretary of State can now say that it is only intended for serious crimes and will be applied in very exceptional cases, but in future it may apply to any suspicion. So the scope of this law is wide, because it can be about more and more, about more and more people and about more and more devices. That is not clearly defined, and that is what my group is concerned about. Doesn't the police play a role in fighting cybercrime at all? Certainly, but this role does not begin with new powers. This role begins with good knowledge about cybercrime and good online detectives. It is precisely in these areas that the government has made a lot of cuts in recent years. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that we can spend the limited money we have better on good online detectives than on millions of hacking software, whose operation is debatable and risky? Is there no need for new powers at all? Oh, yes, I do. I too find it ridiculous that the police should not use looted login codes, for example to log in to a cloud service that can contain documents. I too am fine with the police entering a computer, as long as it doesn't happen by exploiting software vulnerabilities. I too am fine with using a decoy to catch paedophiles, but "new powers" now seems to be some kind of new, magical adage. As if you can only fight crime with new powers. You can hear every ruler say something nowadays: new powers. New powers are sometimes needed, which is absolutely true, but they must make people safer and not more unsafe. I am convinced that this is not the case in the present way. A tunnel vision will be used to look at this issue from the point of view of detection. The prevention of cybercrime has been completely ignored, as has all the consequences for the economy, geopolitics, privacy and the security of ordinary citizens. I shall go back to the discussion of the budget for security and justice two weeks ago. I had an interrupting debate with Mr Recourt at the time. I know him as a lawyer who is always very interested in the position of members of other groups in this Chamber. He wants to find out how they stand in the debate. Mr Recourt said to me two weeks ago: does Mr Verhoeven not see the dilemma? Of course there is a dilemma, I say to Mr Recourt. I discussed this extensively with him during the budget debate. It's the dilemma this whole Chamber is talking about tonight. Can you catch more crooks by hacking through vulnerabilities? That is one side of the dilemma. Yes, I say to all my colleagues, I think so, although it is not as certain as the cabinet would like it to appear. The other side of the dilemma is: does the use and keeping open of vulnerabilities make people vulnerable to hacks by criminals, pedophiles, foreign intelligence agencies and other malicious ones? The answer to that is also yes, and so far I have heard too few people. The treatment of this bill so far is only about the trust that we all have in the police and in our own government to ensure that we can catch criminals through the hacking of computers, smartphones and other devices. Everyone seems to ignore the fact that these same vulnerabilities can also be used by all those other criminals and evil ones who can use exactly the same open loopholes. The impact on the security of the Internet is a major problem. I refer to all the examples I mentioned earlier in my speech. That's why I want to look at the way the police hack. Is it necessary to use unknown or known vulnerabilities or can it also be done by other methods? I call peer phishing, social engineering or other methods that do not use vulnerabilities. How successful can you be through these other methods? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. According to experts, 80% to 90% of all cybercrime comes from human failure. People who do not change the default password of a device respond to phishing mails or use unprotected connections. I have no reason to believe that this is the case, and I haven't seen an analysis by the Cabinet on this either. The fundamental question is whether the damage you do by hacking through the vulnerabilities is related to matters that may be resolved by this heavy authority. First of all, the cabinet did not provide a numerical basis for the need for this competence. Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks already mentioned this. Nor has the Cabinet provided any examples of cases in which this power could contribute. I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. The necessity and justification of this law is very lean. It is estimated that creating a police authority to hack through phishing, social engineering or brute-forceattacks would give the police sufficient resources to deal with the problems mentioned as a necessity of this bill. In this way we prevent the evil created by hacking through vulnerabilities, especially if the police use zero-days, so unknown, vulnerabilities, and do not report them immediately after they have been used. I have just told Mr Recourt that the police will not be able to report vulnerabilities. It is obvious that the police will buy hacking software from companies like HackingTeam, Cellebrite or FinFisher on the basis of this law. We know from the hack on HackingTeam that company is ironically also hacked itself that the contacts have already been established and we know from previous leaks that even FinFisher software has been purchased. These companies' hacking software relies on zero-days that companies will never reveal. Those zero-days, those unknown vulnerabilities, are the earning model of these companies. They will never report it to the creator of the software and they will therefore continue to exist, Mr Recourt. That makes the devices that contain these software vulnerabilities, whether that's an iPhone, an android phone, a car or a pacemaker, vulnerable to hacks by criminals, paedophiles and foreign intelligence services. Can the Secretary of State comment on the purchase process of this software? Is the cabinet going into the dark market to buy unknown vulnerabilities there? Is that going to be through an open invitation to tender? The argument that police are going to detect and close vulnerabilities is quite ludicrous. If the Secretary of State is going to use that argument, I ask him to collect the figures and share them with the Chamber every year. Otherwise, it's really pure folklore. The continued existence of these vulnerabilities therefore results in more cybercrime, more ransomware attacks, more ddos attacks, more mass surveillance by foreign intelligence services and more economic espionage. That is a major social problem, and I would like to avoid it. That's why I'd like to give the police the authority to hack, but not through vulnerabilities. My group believes that that is enough to apprehend suspects and is necessary to prevent us from creating more cybercrime. We have tabled this proposal by amendment together with the GroenLinks and SP groups. Mrs Helder asked me a moment ago: my group also has concerns about the scope of the law, both as regards the scope of the concept of 'automated work' and the types of companies for which this far-reaching competence can be used. At present, the law does not restrict the types of automated works that may be hacked. In the answers to our questions, the cabinet has not been able to rule out the possibility of hacking devices such as cars or pacemakers, which my group considers undesirable. That is why I have tabled an amendment to limit the concept of "automated work" by excluding medical devices, vehicles and equipment which are part of the vital infrastructure. This bill allows the Minister to draw up a separate list of crimes for which this hacking power can be used by each General Measure of Management. In fact, that is a blank cheque for a future minister to extend this hacking power to any kind of crime. We are not just talking about automated works that are in the Netherlands. It is even very likely that such a work is not in the Netherlands at all, but elsewhere in the world. Devices and data carriers are becoming smaller and more mobile. More and more people store data in the cloud and the services provided by the cloud can be anywhere in the world. If a criminal is smart, he hides the location of possible taxable material. What does justice do if a location isn't known? The Netherlands cannot simply conduct an investigation in another country. That requires a legal aid application. I fall over it when the Secretary of State says: well, if the actual location of the automated work is not known, then I am not going to say to the search services "don't break in," because then the internet becomes a refuge for criminals. This is what the Secretary of State says. The Secretary of State therefore gives the impression that it is all or nothing in the fight against these criminals. I think that is an untenable argument for approving a far-reaching power. The Netherlands cannot break in remotely on devices suspected or certain that they are not in the Netherlands, whereas the other country does not know that at all. It seems to me that there will be an international legal problem. The legality of judicial action requires a legal basis, I think. The Judge Commissioner has been designated to pre-examine whether permission can be given for the break-in. Then the judge-supervisor must also know where the automated work is actually located, in the Netherlands or abroad. Fortunately, the Secretary of State understood this in the opinion of the Council of State and finally took it over. However, what he leaves wide open is how the judge Commissioner should then weigh whether he says yes or no. How's he gonna test that? The Public Prosecutor says in his opinion on this bill that if the location of a system cannot be established, it cannot be established that the computer is abroad either. In other words, if we don't know the location, we'll just get to work. If that becomes the modus operandi, then the message to the judge Commissioner is actually: don't complain about the location, watch out for international agreements on jurisdiction and sovereignty. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what the test criteria are for the judge to determine whether or not the services are allowed to hack abroad. I read in the bill about an OM designation at General Measure of Management. Is it ready and, if so, can the Chamber receive it prior to the second term? It is not nothing that the Secretary of State is proposing here. This is about a fundamental rule of law, the jurisdiction to carry out cyber and investigative activities abroad. The Chamber must be able to weigh carefully in that. I know that some parties tend increasingly to think that the Netherlands can do it itself and therefore do not have to take other countries into account, but the opposite is the case here. That's not all. Suppose at some point it becomes clear what the location is and that it is abroad. In that case, then, the judicial authorities would have to ask for permission from the country where the data is actually located. That seems like a lot of administrative stuff for the D.A.'s office. Especially if we read that it may take up to nine months to respond to a request for legal aid, as described in the report's note. That slows the whole thing down. What if the other country still says no? Can we do that? How can we be confident that the justice system will take the trouble to determine the location and the country as it goes along? If you want to avoid a lot of trouble with another country, it's not directly in the interest of the investigation, I can imagine. How does the judge commissioner supervise that? Is that even possible for the judge-supervisor at all, or is it going to be on the court-jurisdiction board? What does it mean for the admissibility of the evidence if access to the data submitted as evidence against a suspect has been granted without the consent of another country? Doesn't it also take a great risk to itself that the evidence will be declared inadmissible and that all the work would be for nothing? The Secretary of State notes that the territoriality principle in cyberspace is under pressure and that the principle cannot be applied if the exact location of data is unclear. All the more reason for countries to make clear agreements on this matter. The Council of Europe is looking for solutions for obtaining digital evidence in the cloud to strengthen legal assistance procedures in digital investigations, the Secretary of State writes to us. In the meantime, however, with this legislative proposal, the Netherlands is taking a leap forward, without being able to see the consequences. Other agreements with other countries are lacking. The cabinet speaks euphemistically of choosing between two less ideal situations, namely to refrain from carrying out investigations when it is not known where the data are located or, in exceptional cases, to exercise independent executive jurisdiction under conditions. The cabinet chooses the latter, while we know that, particularly in the area of justice, countries attach great importance to their sovereignty. That is why even mandatory exchange of information on terrorism is too much to ask for. How will other countries react if they find that their sovereignty has been violated by the Netherlands? What do we do when other countries start thinking in the same currency, a trend that is absolutely gaining ground anyway? What do we do when foreign services in the Netherlands start hacking computers and thus violating our sovereignty? Is that okay with us? Does this not undermine the principles of sovereignty and jurisdiction which apply to international law? That's not supposed to happen, is it? Suppose other countries hack servers in the Netherlands for activities that are not illegal here. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. This concern is extra important because the Netherlands can be a rather attractive country for foreign services to go into grass dunes. The Netherlands is an internet node. There is a large hosting sector in this country. Google has servers in Groningen and probably comes to the Netherlands with even more data storage. So there's a lot of data stored here from all over the world. Has the Secretary of State considered that risk? How does he want to deal with this? The message cannot be: The Netherlands opens the door wide to hacks on Dutch servers by foreign security and search services? What has the Netherlands done in this area during the EU Presidency? For example, has a specific Dutch proposal been put on the table during one of the many JHA committees? I'd like to hear a response. D66 asked the Secretary of State why the judge commissioner is not present during the hacking. That is the case, for example, with searches. The Secretary of State says: the presence of the Judge Commissioner encounters practical implementation problems, because the time of execution is not clearly defined and the duration of the exercise of the power varies. Can the Secretary of State explain how the exact time of entry is determined and what is the minimum and maximum time within which such a power can be exercised? 'Cause somewhere in those set four weeks, it's gonna have to happen, right? So it's not going to happen entirely ad hoc, is it? Is it or is it not the intention of the Secretary of State to have the Judge Commissioner present during the hacking? And if he can't be present, is there at least a prosecutor or an assistant prosecutor present, as is the case when searching a residence? D66 considers it important for the legitimate and careful exercise of this competence to be looked at carefully. The supervision during the execution of the hacking cannot be put aside for convenience. I therefore expect the Secretary of State to make an extra effort to deal with this carefully. I'd like to hear what he's gonna do with this. In the written round I asked if it is practically possible for the investigators to turn off the automatic logging and continue hacking. The Secretary of State replies that it is practically possible to disable the logging. But he also writes that this is visible because of a difference in recorded time. My group has put this question explicitly because experience with telephone taps has shown that systems are not infallible. For example, a few years ago there was a notorious tap on a conversation between Van Rey and former Secretary of State Fred Teeven. That tap was supposed to take place, but there's no trace of it in the systems. The cause of this doesn't seem to be figured out. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether lessons can be learned from this in relation to the logging process. Are there any lessons in that that he can use to prevent this kind of "accidents"? I say again, Mr President, that these are simply questions to which the Secretary of State can give a comprehensive answer. And I can tell by his physical urge to express himself at this moment that he can hardly wait. But it's only 33 minutes away, Secretary of State. And then there will be a few other colleagues. Then he can start giving those answers. This also applies to the dates of justice that are recorded, and not via an outsourced remote service, as we also saw in that somewhat notorious tap of Rey-Bitches. Another point about shutting down logging affects lawyers. The keylogger cannot be disabled at this time as soon as a suspect sends a message to his lawyer. For this, it is necessary that the lawyer's address is recognized by the keylogger, after which the recording of the data can be aborted. An address seems to me to be the same in this area as a telephone number for number recognition. Is there any consultation with the Dutch Bar Association to see how the e-mail addresses of lawyers become available, so that the keylogger can recognize them and record data at that time can be stopped? A number of colleagues have also spoken about monitoring. Prior supervision has been arranged through the judge's commissioner. It shall review the legality, proportionality and subsidiarity of the powers. The technical acts are logged and recorded in the minutes, but the integrity of the technique used and the information collected has not yet been verified. Suppose the technique is used to invade an automated work and information is collected about a suspect, but then the case is not brought to justice. Then who's going to check if the intruder has taken place by the book? Or what if the judge does get the case in court and finds that it all didn't go by the book? What else can be done about it? For the sake of care, it is desirable that monitoring of the system should also be carried out and system monitoring should be independent, not in a structure in which the butcher adopts his own meat. Mr Recourt has just asked Mrs Helder of the PVV whether the Inspection V and J is not sufficient as a form of remote system surveillance. Mrs Helder said: no, it is not, because of course it is not sufficiently remote and not independent. D66 shares Mrs Helder's analysis. We also believe that this is not a sufficiently independent system supervision at a distance. Strong system oversight is also in the interest of a case against a suspect, namely to prevent the loss of evidence by improper use of resources by investigation services. That is why I have tabled an amendment proposing that system supervision be carried out by an independent, non-police or the Public Prosecutor's Office's Board of Investigation. For example, this independent committee can check whether the court commissioner's order is not exceeded, whether there is actual logging, whether it is also included in the minutes and whether the sovereignty of other countries is not violated. This committee can also assess whether and, if so, what vulnerabilities may be used, which not only make criminals but also not suspect citizens vulnerable to hacks. I have, of course, read in the note on the report and in other documents that the Secretary of State says: there will be system surveillance and I will place it at the Security and Justice Inspectorate. The question is whether the inspection can adequately provide for system monitoring. If so, then my amendment is superfluous. But if there's holes in it, we're not done talking about this. For example, what is the capacity of this inspection? She oversees many areas of V and J. Doesn't the Inspector V and J have the right hands full with incidents in the prison and TBs system? Moreover, the inspection is part of the Ministry. To what extent can you compare the inspection with the independent CTIVD, for example? To what extent is the exercise of this kind of specialist investigative powers already covered by the inspection? Does the inspection have sufficient ICT knowledge to properly understand the implications of the proposed competences? Should the inspection not include at least a separate supervisory committee to monitor the ICT powers of the investigation services? I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State to these questions about system monitoring. Knowledge of judges on ICT is also of great importance. The judge Commissioner is the one who is going to have to check whether the hacking power is being properly used and whether there is proportionality and subsidiarity. The Court of Justice notes in its opinion on the legislative proposal that this will require a considerable effort from the Judge Commissioner. The Dutch Association for Justice also says that there is a need for more judges specialised in ICT. How is this foreseen? And how is it then also provided for in courts with sufficient ICT knowledge? Is the Cybercrime Knowledge Centre sufficient for this? Or is there a chance that judges will be stalled by a lack of ICT knowledge in order to be able to adequately assess this type of significant technical ICT issues on their merits? That is a rather crucial question, as both the judge and the court judge will soon be asked to assess these powers on legality. At the same time, it is also in the interests of the investigation services, namely to prevent the loss of evidence due to the lack of proper exercise of powers. With the amendments I have just mentioned, this bill also makes D66 a desirable adjustment of the powers of the police, at least if they are adopted, of course. But there is also a lot unknown. The answers in the note to the report and the explanation in the letter on the use of zero-days raise many questions. Unfortunately, a second written round, which D66 would have liked to see, has been blocked. That is why I have a series of questions for the Secretary of State. Depending on his answers, I may be able to table some additional amendments. I'll start with the letter on the use of zero-days, the unknown vulnerabilities. The directors say a number of very legitimate and commendable things about this in the letter, namely that society is digitalising, that dependence and therefore the importance of the Internet is growing, that it is important that the number of vulnerabilities in computer systems be reduced and that public policies have been developed for this, such as the establishment of the NCSC (National Cyber Security Centre) and the Responsible Disclosure Directive, which ensure that ethical hackers can do their job properly. Finally, the rulers say that it is important to tackle the perpetrators of crime, terrorism and espionage, and that the continued existence of unknown vulnerabilities may pose a risk to more victims of crime. That is all in a letter from the cabinet and D66 wholeheartedly agrees with that. Subsequently, the directors do not address the dilemma of which importance is more important: the risk of more victims of cybercrime, espionage and grooming, or the search interest. Will the Secretary of State address this dilemma? If his answer is that the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judge must determine that per vulnerability, then I would like to hear his opinion on the example of an unknown vulnerability in widely used consumer software, such as Android, iOS or internet browsers. Does the risk of more cybercrime than outweigh the risk, or is it still the investigational interest? Can the Secretary of State give an example of a situation in which, in his view, the risk of more cybercrime outweighs the need for detection? Is it not the case that in the case of a vulnerability in widely used consumer software, the risk of more cybercrime always outweighs the detection interest? I also ask the Secretary of State to comment on the fact that hacking powers can undermine public policy in order to reduce the number of vulnerabilities. What happens if a hacker reports a vulnerability to the National Cyber Security Center? Does the Secretary of State rule out that this vulnerability can be withheld to be used by the AIVD, the STUDD or the police? Can the Secretary of State rule out that the police will use unknown vulnerabilities that it is contractually, technically or otherwise unable to report to the software manufacturers? Does the Secretary of State rule out that the police will buy in vulnerabilities and, if not, how does such a procurement process proceed? Can the government just make such secret purchases? How many million euros will the police have lost to buying hacking software? How many district agents can be attracted to that? Can the Secretary of State exclude that vulnerabilities sold to the Netherlands are also sold to and used by other countries and/or criminals? What happens if the Dutch government finds that a (purchased) vulnerability is also used by criminals? Can vulnerabilities be shared between the General Intelligence and Security Service and the Dutch police? Can it be excluded that vulnerabilities are purchased in encryption software? I'm talking about encryption software, aren't I? That's another distinct category of vulnerabilities, you might say. How long before a vulnerability is reported? We were just talking about it. How long is that gonna take? Nowhere does the legislative proposal, the explanatory memorandum or the note following the report mention a clear deadline for reporting a vulnerability. What is the maximum duration of leaving a vulnerability open? The directors also state that hacking through vulnerabilities is only one of the methods. I have read that, but can the Secretary of State give an estimate of the difference in possible success between hacking and hacking without vulnerabilities? Can the Minister indicate if he expects hacking through vulnerabilities to be more successful? Then what's he basing that on? The directors state that vulnerabilities are numerous and widespread. Mrs Van Toorenburg has also said this on several occasions. That part's true, too. At the same time, the number of new zero-day vulnerabilities discovered annually in widely used consumer software is limited. According to security company Symantec, that number was 54 in 2015. That was a doubling compared to the year before. If the Dutch government withholds some of this, it already has a significant impact on security online. Then the government uses a large proportion of the total number of unknown vulnerabilities. Can the Secretary of State go into that, too? Why, for example, are these figures not part of the explanatory memorandum? In the letter, the cabinet initiated a kind of directive on the use and retention of unknown vulnerabilities for intelligence and investigation services. For example, we need to look at social risks, the type of device, whether the risk of more cybercrime is not too great and so on. The US also has a zero-day directive for intelligence services. Is the Secretary of State prepared to review the drafting of an official directive with his colleague from the Interior, who is responsible for the general intelligence and security services, and to establish appropriate monitoring? Proportionality plays a major role in the choice of the method of accessing automated work. How is the difference in social consequences of hacking through vulnerabilities taken into account in that decision? In the letter, directors state that unknown vulnerabilities are reported to the manufacturer in principle or as soon as possible. What does "in principle" mean in this context? And what does "as soon as possible" mean? Is there a maximum time limit for this? At the Ukraine referendum, "as soon as possible" means "nine months." This could be fatal. I have a number of questions on the note relating to the report. The Secretary of State writes that crimes remain unsolved due to the lack of powers to effectively track down offenders. Can the Secretary of State corroborate that figures? How many cases are we talking about? If you're gonna write something like that to the Chamber, there's got to be statistics. In doing so, the Secretary of State states that it has been concluded that the existing powers are inadequate. Can the Secretary of State support this in terms of figures? How many cases is this the case? And can the Secretary of State address the need for the various investigative acts? What is the need to activate remote gps functionality? What shows the need to activate remote cameras and microphones? What is the need to turn cars into semi-trailers? The Secretary of State mentions the use of a botnet as an example of cybercrime that he intends to tackle with this law. I can imagine that he also wants to tackle the spread of ransomware and other cybercrime. However, this type of cybercrime is largely dependent on software vulnerabilities. The best way to combat such crime is therefore to close those holes, those vulnerabilities. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Does the Secretary of State therefore agree with me that this law increases the chances of more dpos attacks and more ransomware? And if so, has the Secretary of State calculated how much social costs this entails? Deloitte recently calculated that cybercrime now costs around EUR 10 billion a year. 10 billion! A large part of that cybercrime takes place on the basis of vulnerabilities. The possibility of these vulnerabilities remaining open is increased by this law. So you could say that this law carries the risk that cybercrime costs will increase. I'd like to get a reaction to this. How much social extra costs does this law cover? On page 13 of the note following the report, the State Secretary writes that the IP address that is the connection between the Internet and the automated work can be hacked if the MAC address is unknown if an identification number of a device within a network is unknown from an automated work. As more and more people use a VPN, a Virtual Private Network, which I can recommend to anyone, it will mean that the police often only have an IP address of a VPN service server. Does this mean that in practice the government will often hack servers from VPN companies, or can the Secretary of State rule that out? How does the Secretary of State deal with any damage to the computer systems of companies affected by this competence? The Secretary of State says criminals always use encryption, including https. This is seen by the Secretary of State as a problem, while on the other hand we encourage governments and companies to use https to protect people. How is the Secretary of State going to increase the use of https? Doesn't this bill stand in the way of that ambition? In response to D66's question whether antivirus companies will not be asked to pass on certain attacks, the Secretary of State said that this cannot be ruled out in advance. Another example: it is not excluded; it is possible. We all have to think it's an exceptional case that doesn't happen. We all have to assume the intentions are good. But that's not what this is about. It's about whether it can be ruled out. I have a few more questions about that. Is the Dutch government going to ask companies for updates that need to be implemented to delay vulnerabilities? Will the Dutch government ask companies to share vulnerabilities with the police before they are closed? Is the Dutch government going to ask companies to send malware with updates or to send malware disguised updates? Does the Secretary of State consider it desirable if updates that should provide people with safety are postponed? To this series of questions about the use of updates to close vulnerabilities, I would like an answer from the Secretary of State. What about the changeling? Is the Secretary of State prepared to allow this law to enter into force only after the Source Protection Act has entered into force? The explanatory memorandum refers repeatedly to that bill, but it has not yet been adopted by the Chamber. So if this bill is passed first, there's a gap in it. Then everyone can say 'that's a detail; there comes Mr Verhoeven again with a detail', but no! The cabinet writes that the danger of the source protection being put under pressure is overcome by a bill that the cabinet is making, but that law is not yet in force when this law comes into force. How are we gonna fix that now? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Finally, I have a few separate questions of a different nature. I've only got two A4s left. With my current speed, I'm going to make it within 14 minutes and 38 seconds. How does the Secretary of State expect the power to be deployed in the first year and in the following years? How will the Secretary of State prevent jurisdiction from being used as an efficiency tool? Can the Secretary of State rule out the use of this power at the request of foreign governments? Is simply installing and using the Tor browser sufficient reason to be hacked by the police? Is it possible that the police will hack into any device that uses a certain Wi-Fi hotspot if there is a suspicion that a criminal is using it? I'd like to get a reaction to that. I will conclude with a brief summary of my speech in a few sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u126	We have listened to you very carefully, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u127	Yes, but that concludes the argument. For D66, the priority is to prevent cybercrime and make the Internet safer. The police have a very important role to play in this. I have said before that the police can certainly use new powers, but in a way that does not undermine the fight against cybercrime and making the Internet safer. Unfortunately, today we are only talking about the role of the police in fighting cybercrime, while it is precisely in preventing cybercrime that much can be won. There are parties who say that D66 is only against this law and against new powers. On the contrary, I have made five proposals to make it possible for us to support this law in the end. D66 has also made a wide range of proposals, such as digital skills in the curriculum, for the wider importance of a secure internet. There's still no majority in the Chamber for that. Other proposals include more research into cyber security, a highly proactive and independent National Cyber Security Centre, software liability, minimum security requirements for Internet devices, a threat analysis team to keep our vital infrastructure safe, etc. We will also be happy to discuss these proposals in the discussion of our own initiative paper on the Internet of Things. I hope to be able to count on the support of the parties who are voting in favour of this law today, because a number of parties have said that they consider a secure Internet so important. The situation is very urgent. The more devices we connect to the Internet, the greater the importance of a secure internet. It's time for a delta plan for our cyber security. That will not work with this cabinet, but the next cabinet really has to do something about it. We'll make people really safer online. We need to make our society and our economy more resilient to cyber attacks. That must be our first priority. In the Home Affairs budget, the cabinet rightly states: "This cyber threat can seriously affect the integrity of political-administrative and democratic decision-making, the functioning of the vital infrastructure and the earning capacity of Dutch society." Then let's all try to reduce that cyber threat. I hope that my colleagues will vote in favour of my amendments to remove the sharp edges of this law and support my plan for a delta plan for a secure Internet. Then we'll make people really safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u128	We have not yet reached the end of the first term. There are two more speakers. In view of the speaking time, I propose that the sitting be suspended for dinner and that we proceed with the two remaining speakers. I see a nod in agreement. So that's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u129	We're still working on the first term. There are two more speakers from the Chamber. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u130	Mr. Chairman. The SP is not in principle opposed to the possibility for search services to search computers or other automated works. However, the SP is in principle in favour of our fundamental right to privacy, to respect for privacy. That makes today's legal treatment very important. This has already been demonstrated by the contributions of colleagues. Security and privacy are sometimes opposites, but much more often they go hand in hand. People change their behavior when they know or suspect that someone is watching or listening in. I think we all know that feeling. People also do not want to be confronted with horrible crimes that could have been seen afterwards, but they did not want to be prevented because the police are only allowed to work with their hands behind their backs. That brings us to a dilemma. I am very critical of the legislative proposal as we are discussing it today in its present form. That is why I now come to my specific questions on parts of the bill. The proposal states that the police and other investigation services may use the proposed new powers only in a limited number of crimes, including those for which there are at least eight years in prison. However, it may also apply to offences identified by AMvB. What am I supposed to think about? These could also be crimes for which there are no eight years in prison. Moreover, these can be extended beyond parliamentary control. Why does the Secretary of State make this choice? As a representative of the people, I find that far from desirable in a proposal which confers such far-reaching powers. The Council of State states that the infringement is very far-reaching and may constitute a breach of privacy. It's basically like you're secretly invading someone's house and then staying there. Questioning the Dutch Bar Association about house searches revealed the following. In a number of cases, collusive searches will be carried out by the police and the judiciary. This can be done if there is an urgent need and an authorisation of the judge-supervisor expressly determines this. However, the question is whether the judge-in-chief who authorizes the search knows in all cases that the search is being conducted secretly. In other words, searches are not only subject to very strict conditions if no one is at home, there is also discussion about what should and should not be done. I do not see anywhere that the application of hacking powers also looks at the 'urgent necessity'. Is this also included in the prosecutor's order and in the balance of interests by the judge commissioner? If not, why not? If so, where is this recorded? In addition, a search is carried out under the direct responsibility of the Judge Commissioner. The hacking power gives this responsibility to the district attorney. Why is that? Several experts point out that there should be a concrete objective for the allocation of the powers we are discussing today and that they should only be granted if the dates cannot be out-of-date in any other way, with less extensive powers. How concrete does a prosecutor make this goal? How does this look in the warrant? In fact, the judge-supervisor should only allow an identity to be identified if there are no other methods. That authorisation should therefore be granted only for that specific purpose. If an identity is out of date, it must first be reviewed whether conventional detection methods are not sufficient to further detect, or whether the authorisation of the Judge Commissioner should be extended. One step at a time. May I have a response from the Secretary of State? Should it also be indicated for how long an order is valid? Can you hack that it's a sweet lust? Or is it a single-use order? Can you enter and stay inside, and if so, for how long? A group of interconnected devices is also covered by this law as long as they are in use with the suspects. The district attorney must make it clear to the judge commissioner which devices are involved, but what about the data from third parties that are not suspected? The Secretary of State admits that it cannot be excluded that data is obtained on other persons involved in the communication. As only data may be made available as part of the criminal investigation, the Secretary of State believes it will be easy. But how exactly is that? Does the police have data showing criminal activities by third parties than for what they are if they are found? Isn't a new suspect listed and asked for a new warrant? I'd like a clear response. What about the covert intrusion of devices that are not on Dutch territory? That question has been raised many times today. And let's face it, that's what we're probably talking about mostly. How does the Secretary of State intend to deal with the authorities in other countries? Will this not lead to conflict in his eyes? How have countries such as the US, China, Russia and Iran, as well as Germany, Belgium and other countries of the European Union reacted to this Dutch proposal? On 8 November last, a letter was received about the use of zero-days by police and judicial authorities in the implementation of this law. Vulnerabilities detected in an investigation and likely to be unknown shall in principle be reported directly or as soon as possible to the manufacturer of the relevant hardware or software. In principle, because the Public Prosecutor's Office may decide not to report a vulnerability if this "would result in the identification of the suspect's investigation or in a system manufactured by criminals and/or used almost exclusively for criminal purposes'. It has been discussed many times today. In doing so, "it takes into account, among other things, the likelihood of the vulnerability being exploited by the malicious and the number of innocent persons and organisations that are vulnerable to it." Some NGOs and market players point out that the stealth of an automated work requires by definition weaknesses, whether they are known or not. So the risks are high, especially if the Public Prosecutor decides to maintain the weaknesses for a while. The Public Prosecutor's Office will therefore be able to call on antivirus companies, as my colleague Kees Verhoeven pointed out earlier. I read this in the note on the basis of the report. Is the Public Prosecutor's Office going to do this balancing of interests itself, or is an independent expert also watching? Should a committee of wise men be set up for this purpose? Sometimes an investigation will take years. Does such an interest also play a role? Does this not reduce the uncertainty about the use of vulnerabilities, but rather increase them? What if it doesn't work out? Then who's gonna pay for any damage? I would like a clear response from the Secretary of State on this point. Who is liable if it goes wrong when the government was aware of a vulnerability and has summoned others not to repair it? France and Germany have largely waived the possibility of accessing remotely, as improper use of third parties could not be excluded. The government acknowledges that the countries do not or do not make use of it, but cannot state why. It is also recognised that technical vulnerabilities are susceptible to abuse by third parties, but the State Secretary states that there are sufficient measures to prevent this, such as the inspection of the technical aid. What does the Secretary of State mean by that? Surely he cannot mean that this will prevent others from taking advantage of vulnerabilities? In Germany, the court has held that a collusive infiltration of a computer system is only permitted if there are indications of a concrete danger to an important legal basis, such as danger to the life or freedom of a person or the State interest. Why? Because the German law did not provide enough clarity about the hacking power, the requirement of proportionality and the guarantees of careful application to protect the right to privacy. However, the Dutch law continues. Even if there is no such immediate danger, this can happen if infrastructure such as financial services is severely hampered by the forms of cybercrime such as ddos attacks or botnets. However, the government does not see the danger that this law will not stand, as it would comply with Article 8 ECHR. The interference is foreseen by national law and necessary in the interests, inter alia, of national security, public security and the importance of preventing disorder and criminal offences. There are therefore sufficient safeguards for proportionality and subsidiarity, according to the Secretary of State. But how will Germany react in view of the above? I repeat my question once again. I'm here to supervise. The Judge Commissioner only gives an authorisation and the ex post inspection supervises. The judge will, of course, do that in the criminal case. How exactly does it work and what exactly does it do to monitor afterwards? That is only if the order has already been executed, if I interpret it correctly. Is there any supervision on the basis of every order or only on the basis of a tip? In short, what is needed for the inspection to investigate or check? The Council of State called for system oversight to be carried out in a structured manner to ensure the legitimate exercise of investigative powers. To this end, a supervisory authority should have access to individual dossiers in order to assess the necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. The government does not want this because there are enough guarantees. However, these safeguards are only applicable to the preliminary stage and to the course of events after the application of the hacking power, i.e. not to the supervision during the journey. For example, can the Dutch Data Protection Authority not do this? You don't want to conclude afterwards that it went wrong. A study carried out by the Institute of Information Law also identifies bottlenecks in the draft law relating to the review. The first bottleneck it signals is that system monitoring is missing. According to the Institute, there is only to a limited extent independent supervision of the exercise in a general sense. Moreover, there must be supervision during the journey, and there is indeed no such supervision. There's only surveillance before and after. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to these observations. On page 95 of the note on the basis of the report, the Secretary of State says the following about supervision. An order from the District Attorney to the remote entry of an automated work shall be carefully prepared, balancing the objectives to be achieved, the available techniques and means, the possible alternatives and the risks associated with such an effort. If the Public Prosecutor decides to use the power, the proposed deployment shall be submitted to the Central Review Committee. The order of the Public Prosecutor shall also be subject to judicial review due to the requirement of the prior authorisation of the Judge Commissioner. The Public Prosecutor shall supervise the execution of the order and of any investigative acts carried out. In addition, the obligation to ensure that the investigating officer records the actions he has carried out as soon as possible, so that they can be accounted for. Supervision of a lawful application shall be exercised by the Judge at the hearing. In addition, the Safety and Justice Inspectorate will monitor the implementation of the competence. Regarding the supervision by the Dutch Data Protection Authority, the State Secretary says that this is only about monitoring compliance with the privacy law, while the Dutch Data Protection Authority itself indicated that it has this expertise in its own hands during the round table discussion on this law. Why should we not allow the Dutch Data Protection Authority to monitor whether certain hacking software does comply with privacy law and there are no risks that privacy can be violated with that particular software? This is also monitoring compliance with privacy laws. Or would the Secretary of State prefer that, when it comes to the action of the government, the Dutch Data Protection Authority should look at the moments in question? By the way, this bottleneck has also been identified by the researchers of the University of Amsterdam. Prior review of the technologies to be deployed completes supervision. I've come to the duty of notification. The D.A. is obliged to notify the person whose hacked device was, but that does not apply until the investigation has been completed or when the investigation allows it, in order to prevent obstruction of the investigation. The notification shall be omitted if the communication is not reasonably possible. However, there are no sanctions for non-compliance with this rule. If one finds out that it didn't happen, it has to happen. What exactly can a suspect or a third party do if he or she considers that hacking his or her fundamental rights have been violated? This is particularly true if the notification obligation is not fulfilled and the person who has not found out before. What can a citizen do in that case? The demand for and need for digital experts is recognised. According to the Secretary of State, this question will be addressed in the coming years through the flow of staff. Do I read correctly that there is no additional staff being recruited within the police, who are already struggling, and that the existing problem within the police is not solved? So there's no investment? How is this possible, when there is already a major problem in the field of ICT within our police? As far as finance, capacity and knowledge are concerned, there is a similar problem in the case-law. It's not even known how much more work it's gonna do for judges' commissioners. They must also be well trained and remain up-to-date on cybercrime and developments in this area. Judge Commissioners are increasingly given responsibilities, while the workload is high. This proved to be the case again yesterday during the legislative consultation on the law strengthening position curator. I would like a clear response from the Secretary of State on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u131	Mr. Chairman. The Computer Crime Act III brings the legal possibilities for the police up to date. In the physical world, over many years, what is allowed and what is not allowed has been recorded. This legislation could also be used for a while when our computer with just the hard drive was still under our desk. But now the data in the cloud is also the data that perpetrators of child pornography and terrorists get behind bars. It is very good that this law can combat the sometimes terrible reality that takes place, for example, on the anonymous Tor network. The Labour Party doesn't want to set aside for the most horrible crimes. The Labour Party also wants the Internet to be as secure as possible. And then there's a dilemma. The Computer Crime Act III seeks to solve this problem. This is working well, but I still have a lot of concerns and related questions, in particular about the hacking power or, in the language of the law, the remote entry of automated work. First of all, I come to the other elements of the law, which are quickly overlooked in all these discussions on hacking. Online trafficking fraud is one of those topics. It is then about offering trade on the market, for example, when you have no intention of delivering that trade at all. It happens all the time. With the same regularity, the police refer the victims to the civil court. That is a very expensive and, above all, hopeless road. In this law, at my request, I made that request together with then MP Van der Steur, and this behaviour is punishable. Hooray! But how are we going to ensure that victims of this type of crime are no longer sent away by the police? Is there going to be any information for the officers who take statements? Is there capacity besides knowledge? I tabled a motion in the budget for this ministry asking for a plan of action to tackle cybercrime in a structural manner. Is my question included in this plan of approach? And above all: is it on time, assuming that this law is likely to enter into force somewhere next year? The second issue is the improved criminalisation of grooming. I have a question to the Secretary of State about the amendment tabled by the VVD and the CDA, which will make it possible to extend the wording slightly, so that the digital decoy child, the decoy, may also become a criminal offence. My question is: does this amendment solve the problem in case law? If I recall the case law correctly, the judge says: there is no victim, because a digital child is not a victim. What about the reaction of the College of Attorneys General, which says that we do not need this? The prosecutor's order to make data inaccessible to providers, for example, is another example, an element, of the law. A nice procedure has been introduced, involving consultation with the relevant companies. If there is no solution, there will be a judge's decision after hearing it again. I'm happy about that. Then the most far-reaching: the hacking power. I used the analogy with the physical world in my assessment of this. It has been said before: the government stimulates good hanging and closing work, but in a specific case, if there is sufficient evidence, and with a prior judicial test, the government can go in to observe, look in and search. This should also be done digitally, as an exception, in a limited number of cases and with a pre-key. The law is also lucky, but the special virtual nature gives a number of additional dilemmas. I'd better get rid of them. In criminal law, rights and obligations must be clear, which requires the principle of legality. That is what we must try to do in this debate. That helps the police and it helps all the Dutch. So you can ask about the advocacy. Where are the boundaries? You shouldn't take it off with the killer that you don't have faith in the police. My first question concerns the following. Hacking is an ultimatum remedium. You only use it if you don't have any other, less-expanding drug. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? In any case, I understand the term 'impressive interest'. The second question is further along this line. If there are known vulnerabilities, will they be used first? Are zero-days, so the unknown vulnerabilities, only last resort? Then there's the third question. Is the government, which then still uses zero-days, developing them itself, whether or not with the help of external experts? Isn't she going to buy it in a possible criminal market? If that market is not criminal, it is at least a market that has an interest in maintaining vulnerabilities. That is not the interest of the government. If the government is purchasing commercial zero-days, how should the vulnerability be reported? This law has a duty to notify. The police might be in breach of this law if they didn't report it. That makes purchasing zero-days without knowing any vulnerabilities as far as I am concerned not only undesirable, but also impossible. The fourth question concerns the reporting itself. Why was a four-week deadline chosen? Is it not true that a leak that has been reported is not healed immediately the next day? Can the Secretary of State say how long it's about between reporting and healing? I imagine this is different, but are there any figures? Who's being reported to? Can the relevant weakness also be reported to the managers of vital infrastructure, whether or not via the NCSC? What about the stability of systems? With a hack on a large automated system, this system can become unstable. If the police can suspect this, isn't the hack being committed? What if you can't suspect it, but the danger does exist? Then how do you weigh the proportionality? What are the chances of downtime for how many people in relation to the severity of the crime and the presence of alternatives? What about the jurisdiction problem? We have discussed foreign affairs in this Chamber before. Suppose you enter an automated work and you notice that the data is stored in a server that is located abroad. Then you're gonna stop and move on to legal aid? It seems to me that is how I read the answers. I'd like to get a confirmation. What about the international ambition of this cabinet? Digital traffic knows no boundaries, but the police do, and that wrings and calls for coordination and cooperation. What steps are being taken at European level and even at global level? And what about the General Measure of Governance with offences that should also be covered by the functioning of the law? There is no veil on this, so that the Chamber does not have a prior view of this. Why didn't that happen? I am not in favour of pre-limiting the list of automated works, because it immediately makes the law obsolete, even before it has entered into force. After all, development is moving fast. However, I would like to have some clarity about the automated works that will not be used when dealing with the law. The pacemaker is often mentioned, but it seems clear to me that the pacemaker is not being used. Is there a standard that is being tested? It seems reasonable to me to use the standard that you do not use automated works in case there is a danger to physical safety. How is this tested? I think it would be very useful to carry out an ex post test on system monitoring. Is this indeed the task of the inspection system supervisors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u132	It's a whole set of very sensible questions from the PvdA group. Mr Recourt will undoubtedly also have received the messages from the RAI Association. She is seriously concerned about road safety if cars are not excluded from this law. How does the PvdA Group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u133	That's what's decided in my question. Once physical safety is at stake, you shouldn't want hacking into automated work. I believe that it is also included in one of the answers to the written questions. You can imagine that you want to prevent a car from going on the road at all. Then there's no danger to physical safety. But it seems dangerous to me to take control of a car somewhere in the middle of the A2 or to stop the car. That's not the point. I would very much like to hear a criterion put forward here. In addition, I would like an ex post test on whether that criterion is met.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u134	Afterwards, of course, is extremely problematic. If there is a vulnerability in the operating system to enter a car and others can also use it, then a test afterward is not so crazy anymore, because then a large part of the fleet is theoretically open to hacks of all kinds of evildoers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u135	We have had this discussion before. Look, there are weaknesses, even if the government isn't in sight yet. At the moment the government is in the picture and is going to use one of those weaknesses, you know that weakness is reported and corrected. I don't understand the reasoning. Mr Verhoeven has the same reasoning: it only becomes more unsafe. No, in the end there is a reporting obligation and in the amount of weaknesses that weakness comes out anyway, because it has to be reported. I don't understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u136	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u137	I come to the expertise, which must be good everywhere: with the police, the prosecutors and the judiciary. As far as the police and the prosecutors are concerned, that seems to be a reasonable rule, but what about the judge Commissioner, also in the light of the amendment I tabled with Mrs Tellegen? In order to be able to test really meaningfully, the rc needs to know what he or she is talking about, and that requires some specialization. I wanted to ensure that in our amendment, but that was not legally possible. How is the expertise secured?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u138	I am concerned about the same point as Mrs Van Tongeren just did. Mr Recourt said it earlier in the case of interruption, and now he says it again: those leaks are closed by the police. Can he explain where he gets that? Vulnerabilities are being used, and he is convinced that they will be closed equally, while that is nowhere with so much or very concrete in the law. That's really important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u139	Yes, that's the duty of reporting. You get a four-week term and then you have to report it. Then the system administrator or anyone else can close that leak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u140	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u141	Okay, then Mr Recourt meant to say: the period when the police get the chance to use the vulnerability to hack is four weeks. That's what it says. Is it enough for Mr Recourt to close such a leak after four weeks? So that leak can be open for four weeks, that's what you're implying. So he actually says that the PvdA is okay if a vulnerability isn't closed for four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u142	Four weeks is the maximum, but that vulnerability may have been open for years. Again, there are vulnerabilities. That could be hundreds in the system, and they're all open until the police use them. I'd rather not, I've already said that, only in the extreme, but at least you'll know they're reported and poemed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u143	You're heading for a roundup?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u144	Yes, I am. I was with the expertise. What's the deal with system monitors? System surveillance is in the Department of Security and Justice, but does that involve a special team or a special department? The Code of Criminal Procedure is being reformed as a whole. More and more emphasis is being placed on digital competences. The Computer Crime Act III is the first step, but there is a revolutionary change going on, including in criminal law. Is it not right to anticipate this and gain experience with a specialised section? And since this remains the subject of discussion: can the Secretary of State explain the independence of the Security and Justice Inspectorate? Finally, what about the control of cases that do not come before the courts? Will the Department of Security and Justice specifically look at this at individual file level? I have a brief general conclusion. We're living in the middle of a digital revolution. All facets of our lives will be fundamentally changed by this huge growth in data. Today we are talking about today's crime, but above all tomorrow's crime. I'm glad this law provides the police for this crime. We need to find a good balance in that. This law is a good start, and I expect and hope that the answers given by the Secretary of State will also give that assessment where I do not think it is clear yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u145	I have looked closely at Mr Recourt and Mrs Tellegen's amendment and put it alongside Mr Verhoeven's amendment, Mrs Van Tongeren's and myself. What I find difficult about the amendment tabled by Mr Recourt and Mr Tellegen is that, in my view, the fundamental question that we as politicians should answer, namely whether you think the Dutch government should be allowed to use vulnerabilities, is simply put to the courts in this way. I wonder, given the rather critical attitude taken by the PvdA in this regard, whether this is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u146	I don't think that question's gonna be filed with the judge. This law says: yes, it is allowed, and on that point my group supports the law. It may be used, both known and unknown vulnerabilities, but a number of conditions must be met. I have answered my questions on this point too. I assume that known vulnerabilities are being used in the first instance. If, at the end of the day, it comes to the conclusion that the question of whether or not unknown vulnerabilities can be used is the answer of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u147	The question has been answered by the Labour Party. So Mr Recourt thinks that vulnerabilities, even if they are zero-days, can be used by the Dutch government to secretly enter computers? I am less able to reconcile that with Mr Recourt's speech at the very beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u148	In my speech, I asked critical questions on this very point. Is it indeed well secured that that is an ultimatum remedium? In what way will supervision be completed? What are the criteria? What is excluded? My answer to the question of principle is, and I can only repeat this: yes, I think that the government should be able to make use of it in the extreme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u149	That's a turn of events. Mr Recourt says on the one hand 'it is good that unknown vulnerabilities are going to be used' and on the other hand 'I assume and I am glad that the police are going to report them more quickly and that they are going to be closed, within four weeks at the latest'. What happens to all sorts of unknown vulnerabilities the police don't even know about? The police buy software from a certain company to be able to hack, but do not know at all what vulnerabilities are in it. So the police can't close it either. By using unknown vulnerabilities, which the PvdA now says yes to, it is excluded that they can be closed. The police do not have the opportunity to know all these vulnerabilities and therefore not to report them. What does the PvdA do with that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u150	I refer to my third question: what about if the government still buys commercial zero-days? How should this vulnerability be reported? The police would then act in violation of their own law, and that cannot be done. That's what I said. That makes buying zero-days without knowing vulnerabilities as far as I'm concerned an impossibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u151	That's not consistent. Mr Recourt cannot say 'yes' to Mrs Gesthuizen's question about the choice of principle to use unknown vulnerabilities. Mr Recourt says that he is so clear about this and then say in the form of a question: I do not want the police themselves to break the law. This cannot be ruled out by the use of unknown vulnerabilities. The PvdA will really have to make a choice. I ask Mr Recourt to make that choice. Because it can't be both. He cannot say: in principle, the use of unknown vulnerabilities is good, but I do expect that they will always be closed because otherwise the law will be broken. It's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u152	What Mr Verhoeven is referring to is the question: how do you get your unknown vulnerabilities? You buy those from the market? I have asked very critical questions about this. As far as I'm concerned, that's not gonna happen. I'll wait for the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u153	Mrs Gesthuizen, you would like to ask another question. Interrupts go in two, but you've been very modest tonight. I therefore give you another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u154	I think it is an important point, even if it has been considerably chewed out in the debate. This is a business. Those things don't come from the sky. I've never seen one lying on the floor anywhere. I understand very well that as a spokesperson, you are asking critical questions. I'm doing the same thing myself. Nothing but respect for asking the cabinet critical questions. However, if you take the trouble to table an amendment, then you really have to choose: home or calf. Those zero-days don't fall out of the sky. Where do they come from in the view of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u155	That's what I said in question three. I think that, with or without the hiring of experts, you can see for yourself as a government where the vulnerabilities are in software.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u156	A final question, Mrs. Gesthuizen? No? Then there is Mr Verhoeven's final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u157	Yeah, really, I promise. I think you will take care of that, Mr President. The hacking software is sold by companies that have an interest in not closing the vulnerability. That's the earning model of those kind of dark, sinister companies: Hacking Team, darknetic players. My question is, then, very simple: does the PvdA see that danger? Doesn't the PvdA see that that kind of unknown vulnerabilities are not necessarily going to be reported by the police within four weeks, which means that the police will break the law? Does the PvdA see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u158	I have already said this twice or three times, and I have already dealt with this in the case of interruptions. Yes, I see that danger and I find it undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u159	How can the Labour Party now see that it is in favour of the use of unknown vulnerabilities, with all these safeguards and all that Mr Recourt said? How can one say at the PvdA, pending the answer to that fundamental question, that we find the use of unknown vulnerabilities, zero-days, acceptable? How can the PvdA say that when there is simply no way that the police will act and break the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u160	The question of principle was asked whether I find it unacceptable in principle if zero-days, unknown vulnerabilities are used. My answer to that question is: no, I do not find that unacceptable. I imagine they're being used, but there are conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u161	Thank you. We have come to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has told me that he would like to see 15 minutes suspended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u162	I will give the Secretary of State the opportunity to reply in the first term, but only after I have agreed to the following with the Members. If I understand correctly, the Secretary of State will answer on the basis of a number of cubes. I suggest we do the interruptions at the end of the block. I hope for your cooperation and that, also looking at the clock, I can count on a constructive contribution from all of you. I'll be the first to look at the Secretary of State. Would he be so kind as to share the cubes with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u163	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I will begin with a general introduction to the legislative proposal, then I will continue with the many questions about technology, jurisdiction and so on, then specifically the vulnerabilities, then the capacity and organisation, and finally crime and the moral aspects of hacking. All the way to the end, I am discussing the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u164	Thank you. Would you like to make it clear when you go to a new block? Then it's completely clear to us. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u165	Mr. Chairman. Now comes the block "general." I am glad that the Chamber not only called me to reply as a matter of urgency, but also quickly scheduled the debate afterwards. As Members of Parliament pointed out earlier, it is high time to adapt the powers to modern times. We cannot leave the police on an important and increasingly important part of society in a state in which it cannot live up to what it is: the safety and protection of our Dutch citizens. That is why they are not so much additional powers. You can say, of course, on the one hand: they are new, so they come in. On the other hand, this is simply an adaptation of the principles that we have always used in the balance between police powers and protection and citizens' rights. We're moving it to the online domain now. Of course, that's impossible to imagine anymore. An important part of the crime is happening there, and that is getting bigger and bigger. So I think you shouldn't think unilaterally that as long as the government can't do anything, you're safe and you have privacy. I really think that's a big misconception. I think the biggest threat to our security and privacy comes from parties other than the government. It's from the wicked. The Dutch rightly expect us to do our best to protect them from this. Then the police must have powers to deal with people who abuse them at individual level. Apart from that, there's the security side. We are not talking about that very much today, because it is already settled and not in this bill. The security side means that we are responsible for the whole system and for the networks. There are contradictions in government trade, but they are not in this law. We also want, for example, that everyone first has the best possible locks to protect against burglars. But if a criminal is hiding behind that, the police should be able to open very good locks or kick down the door to get into that house and hold that person or obtain information if necessary for the search. The question has been asked: are the possibilities we now have not enough? Mrs. Van Tongeren mentioned an IP tap. It's drying up. You may have a lot of data, but you can't use it because of encryption, for example. As a result of this development, the current possibilities are no longer sufficient. It's gonna take more than that. I believe that there is a good balance here to ensure the privacy and security of citizens from the government, without moving on to an approach where those same objectives are risked or harmed by the powers conferred on them. I will discuss the vulnerabilities, which are once again a sub-part of the law. The questions are therefore based on far-reaching reasonings which will not be discussed in daily practice. I think it is important in general terms that there are as few vulnerabilities as possible. Of course, if a vulnerability is poemed, then you can't use it anymore. But the preference always goes to closing vulnerabilities. There will therefore be no link in the sense that the NCSC will receive a list of vulnerabilities used in ongoing investigations that should not be reported. If the NCSC finds a vulnerability or a vulnerability is reported to the NCSC, it will simply pass it on. If the manufacturer repairs something very quickly and the police can no longer get in, then that is very unfortunate for the investigation, but then she has to try another way. There is no mixing and no dilution of the activities that we are already doing. To deal immediately with the vulnerabilities of foreign services, this will also have to be tested. Let me give you a fictional example. A neighbouring country is a jihadist cell on the trail. It finds out that another cell with which the first one is in contact is in the Netherlands and that these cells use an app developed by themselves. Your neighbor says, "You need to take a look over there; can you help us?" We say: we cannot see what they are doing. Then they say: we have found a vulnerability in their system. When the neighbour says "we want to give it to you, but you can never report it," you have to check it out in advance. If the judge then says "this is such a specific app, which is only used by that network," then it will be allowed. If a judge commissioner says "if you use it, you'll have to report it afterwards," you'll have to tell your colleagues in the neighbouring country that you can't hire it because you're going to report it. If the condition is that you can't report him afterwards, then you can't use it. In the introduction, therefore, I would like to counter all the image that we are maintaining the vulnerabilities, let alone encouraging them. I will go into this in detail later, because a lot of scenario questions have been asked. Now I'm going to the block where I want to discuss the technical aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u166	I shall first give the floor to Mr Verhoeven for his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u167	The Secretary of State will go into it even more deeply and technically. I am pleased with that, but he says: I want to counter the idea here that we are not closing vulnerabilities. That is claimed by everyone all the time, but the legal text simply does not rule it out. I do trust in all the good intentions of those who say that this is only happening at the last minute; we first use other powers and, of course, prefer to report as soon as possible so that they can be closed. That's what I hear people say all the time. Mr Verhoeven, don't get so worked up. But I have read the texts, read the explanatory memorandum, read the legal text.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u168	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u169	My question is: the legal texts do not exclude that there are all sorts of scenarios in which there will be no reporting and the vulnerability remains open? That's the result of this law, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u170	I will answer Mr Verhoeven's question, but I think I have made it somewhat difficult for myself in order. It would be wiser if I brought the block of vulnerabilities forward now and started it now. Otherwise, we'll go back and forth. Mr Verhoeven is asking for things to be ruled out all the time. Indeed, it is possible to use this law to make use of vulnerabilities, but Mr Verhoeven pretends to be those vulnerabilities through that law all the time. Look, you have two scenarios. You don't have the law. Then there are all these vulnerabilities and they may be reported once because we find out because an ethical hacker calls the NCSC. They usually send a message "I found a vulnerability," can you help me deliver them to the manufacturer? That's how it is now. This law doesn't weaken that. The only thing is that the government, the police and the investigation services can also make use of vulnerabilities and those who report subsequently when they have been used, except in very exceptional circumstances with all kinds of safeguards and tests. But then we really are in temporaryity. Then you say, the use of this unknown vulnerability doesn't affect so many people. That's the scale. Let me take two extreme examples. On one side of the spectrum there is an unknown vulnerability in a router of a large provider that stands in half of Dutch households. I can't imagine a threshold being crossed so quickly that someone wouldn't report it. Then it must almost be a very concrete and imminent threat of an attack. On the other side of the spectrum, there is a criminal organisation that has decided with healthy distrust to develop its own communication app. If you discover an unknown vulnerability in it, you can imagine that if that app is only used by that organization, there will not soon be a reason to report it. Those are the two extremes. In everything in between, there must be a weighting of the impact on and the risk to safety by leaving a vulnerability open a little longer. In that scenario, too, I am glad that we have found this vulnerability. Because if we hadn't found her, she'd have been open for how long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u171	Mr Verhoeven, in the second place? Or are you waiting for the block of "vulnerability"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u172	I'll ask you a follow-up question. Now that the Secretary of State has said so, I must first say the following. I do not think that it is appropriate to shake the constant no in all the scenarios in which I have outlined the dangers of this bill. So it is possible that a lot of the scenarios I have outlined are possible. Next, I hope that the Secretary of State and all the lawyers will agree with me that we must establish, before we go into the technique, that in the legal text a lot of things that my group is genuinely concerned about are also based on the past, where all kinds of powers are stretched out just 100% possible. Then the Secretary of State can say: Mr Verhoeven, that is not the intention; Mr Verhoeven, this is a spectrum; Mr Verhoeven, this is the extreme of a spectrum; Mr Verhoeven, none of that is going to happen. The fact is that we are making a law in which all this has not been handled properly. I think that's extremely dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u173	I'm shaking no for two reasons. Firstly, Mr Verhoeven makes cohesion a causality all the time. There isn't one. He's acting like this bill doesn't shut down vulnerabilities. These are vulnerabilities that would have been dealt with in the same way as they would have been dealt with by this bill without this bill. Namely: they are there until, hopefully a benevolent, someone discovers them and reports them, after which they are poemed. There is one scenario in between of a vulnerability that has not yet been reported and which is now also open to all evildoers, and which is exploited by the good police and then reported. Secondly, Mr Verhoeven constantly asks for something to be excluded and raises it to a standard if that cannot be excluded. In doing so, he sketches the wrong picture of this law. The logic of this law's vulnerabilities is derived from a cohesion that reminds me a little of the following. The police use guns, criminals also use guns, and the conclusion is that criminals use guns because the police do. That is not a logical conclusion, but that is a bit what is happening here with regard to the use of vulnerabilities by the people who are already doing it, namely the evil ones, and the people who will also be able to do it in the future, namely the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u174	The back door is easy to open because there is something wrong with the way the locks were produced. Then the police can think: we only use it when we really have a good reason to check the kitchen plates regularly, but we don't tell anyone. Or, and that is the position of GroenLinks, you should immediately report large-scale that the locks of brand X, Y and Z have to go back to the maker. So it's not the police's fault that those locks have a weakness, but the police can do two things. She can immediately report to all the people who have such a lock that all kinds of strangers can go into their kitchen. Or they can say: quite convenient for us, we don't say anything about it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u175	Again, if this law is not implemented, the police will not see that there is a bad lock on the back door. It doesn't help the people with the bad locks. Then all those burglars can still get in. Then we just don't see it until the NCSC happens to see it or a benevolent neighbor sounds the alarm. Let me return to Mrs Van Tongeren's metaphor. As a cop, you see that bad lock on that back door, because the judge commissioner gave you permission to go in there with that person or that house, because something's really wrong. Let's not pretend it's for the sake of cosiness; the judge's commissioner has ruled that this suspect should be allowed to do so. You kick down the door first, then you get your information in there, you pick up that figure, and when you get the case round, you call everyone and tell the manufacturer: your locks are flawed. I think that's useful. If you're standing with that suspect, you don't walk to the front door to ring and say: I actually wanted to go in through the back door, but the lock is so bad that I'm just warning you. Then we'll be twice as much better off with this, won't we? We were able to prosecute that person and we told the police: you shouldn't think "it's nice that those locks are so unsafe, maybe I'll have another suspect someday," but you have to report it so those locks get better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u176	So you have a market with information on how to open all kinds of locks. Should the government do so in order to enter certain kitchens, or should it say: we do not want to, because that is an illegal market? So should she say: we are joining such a zero-day Google project and we are going to report everything we encounter as widely as possible as quickly as possible and we are calling on all countries in Europe to do the same? That way we really get a much safer Internet. For those few cases from the current proposals of the Secretary of State, the Computer Crime Act I and II and very good and solid detectives are sufficient. That would be a much better solution as far as I am concerned. Maybe the Secretary of State will come up, but I haven't heard him say why this extra power is essential. A great importance of the Dutch must be protected, because it is a violation of their fundamental rights. Where did that come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u177	Here again, it is just as if Mrs Van Tongeren already compared it with all the doors and all the kitchen plates once in a while, here a kind of systematic access to all the Dutch' systems is created. That is, of course, far from the case. If you find in the search that a lot of information that is crucial to getting to a case is no longer accessible because it is located in places and in certain ways in digital places that were not there before and which are not now accessible to the police, then you need to move along with it and broaden those powers. In addition, we still believe that vulnerabilities should be reported. So it's not gonna happen that someone reports a zero-day at once and the NCSC thinks: we'll call the police to see if they want to use it or not. No, it'll just be reported immediately. Those things are not mutually exclusive, just as the police are now forcing both locks and doors into suspects if they have permission to enter the house, as anyone with political brands, is encouraging Secure Living, Secure Enterprise and lock ratings to buy as good as possible locks. It is not new that these two interests exist. Nor is it new that we both serve and use it as much as possible. As a result, Mrs Tellegen asked: how about forcing companies to cooperate, such as Apple and encryption? Of course, you can ask a company for information, but if that company says "we don't have it, because we offer a message service with encryption that we don't have the key to," then we're not going to force those companies to use or build in or force them to give it. It doesn't go that far. That trade in vulnerabilities is there. Unknown vulnerabilities are traded. That trade in itself is not prohibited. Using a vulnerability to criminal offences is. That's where the tension is. It's a very expensive business. Otherwise you could almost say: buy them all up, not from the police, but from the National Cyber Security Center, for example, and make sure they are closed. But it doesn't work that simple. It's not a market where the police have to move to buy zero-days. It's not like you're gonna bid on a zero-day, where you're gonna acquire an unknown vulnerability. The question is whether this is the standard method. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked that question. That's not true. You will first consider whether less radical powers can be deployed. When it comes to a claim with a cloud provider, which you know simply responds and cooperates, it is less significant than one of the powers under this law. Then you'll take advantage of that. If intruders are necessary, the police will look at what method is needed on a case-by-case basis. In doing so, you weigh the breach of privacy and also the risk of being noticed. Unintended side effects, of course, you try to keep as small as possible when choosing. Often a preliminary examination provides an image of the system. For example, when you see someone using an outdated operating system that you know is a known vulnerability and that you can get in there, you don't think: I like it a lot more to do an unknown vulnerability or to hack into something very difficult. Well, that's not gonna happen in that case. Mrs. Helder asked whether the police and prosecutors would now create new vulnerabilities themselves. The police do not produce user software and therefore does not create anything with new vulnerabilities. Of course, someone from the police may have discovered a vulnerability that was not yet known. In accordance with the procedure already discussed, it is possible to ask whether this vulnerability can be used. After use it will be reported in most cases. There must be very good reasons to maintain that vulnerability. I think that in most cases this does not even raise a question with the judge Commissioner, because the prosecution and the police themselves will not even ask whether they should keep that vulnerability open for longer. Ms. Helder asked if a company like KPN would be asked to wait for the update. No, we're not gonna do that either. We're not going to summon others not to update or to maintain vulnerabilities. So you don't get to ask Mrs. Gesthuizen who's liable afterwards, because we're not going to call a company to postpone an update or patch. Mrs Van Tongeren asked whether zero-days are already being used. No, we're not doing that right now. I understand all the questions about quantification of cases in which this would have helped and to what extent, but that's like someone wearing a blindfold and saying: I'm not taking off the blindfold until you can tell me what you haven't seen so far. That's an impossibility. So I can't provide that information. Mr Verhoeven said that it is not all about using vulnerabilities. I totally agree with him. I would not have focused on that myself, but I am getting to that very quickly in the answer, because a lot of questions have been asked about it. There are of course several techniques available to intrude. Mr Verhoeven also mentioned a few: social engineering, spear phishing, brutal forcing. We have no exhaustive listing of techniques. It will therefore depend on the case which technique you use and which is the most appropriate route, where the easiest way is of course most obvious if it can be found in a good balance with the risks of discovery and privacy. Mr Verhoeven asked what we can buy and what the police can buy. No unknown vulnerabilities; now I need to be very precise. There are, of course, unknown vulnerabilities in different forms. In the first form, you know it's an unknown vulnerability, and in the other you buy a tool to get in somewhere, but you don't know how it works. The first one can't be. You can't go shopping for unidentified vulnerabilities. The second one's fine. So you don't know if there are any known or unknown vulnerabilities being used. That is inherent to the software and to its use. If you don't know what's being used, you can't report it. Of course, it can be very good that you buy something that apparently uses an unknown vulnerability that is poemed after a while, for example because someone, a white hat hacker, reports this to the NCSC. Then it's just become unusable. They asked how this relates to the services. I do not know much about that; I am not concerned about that either, but it may well be that the security and intelligence services will be cursed once and for all because they have been using for some time something the police used in an investigation case and then reported it properly, after which the vulnerability is closed. That's how it works. So there are no contacts about "don't report this, because someone else is still using it," just like the NCSC doesn't do to the police either. Mr Verhoeven asks if we have an interest in reducing security through https. We don't. We continue to encourage the installation of as much security as possible on equipment. It is precisely because the majority of users are at great risk of being the victims of evil that it is in the interests of their protection to promote security. Because you want society to be as secure as possible, it is inherently more difficult for the police to get into the house of evildoers and so powers are needed. Mr Verhoeven asked if we would sell vulnerabilities to other countries. The cops aren't gonna do that. We have already talked about the fact that buying unknown vulnerabilities does not go the way Mr Verhoeven assumed when he asked if we are going to spend a lot of money on the zero-day market. We have already discussed the balance between cybersecurity and search interests. For the packages used almost exclusively by criminals, the bar to delay notifications is less high than for commonly used software or hardware where the risks are high if vulnerability persists. Mr Verhoeven mentioned VPN services. Of course, over the networks of others, you do not hack the access provider or the service itself into the automated work of the person you have been looking for. Mr Verhoeven said that automatic logging could be disabled. That logging cannot be deactivated by the detective who's working on a hack, because other people manage it. So they can't just log it out on their own. Because the log system is running smoothly, the judge commissioner can base himself on it in the assessment and doesn't have to be constantly wrong when it happens. At that point in time, someone could come along for a search, but if a keylogger waits for someone to type certain things, the judge commissioner should be there all the time. You can't just call him and say, "They're being typed now." Logging is a way for the judge commissioner to see what happened. Mr Verhoeven asked whether known vulnerabilities were first used. Most of the vulnerabilities in systems are known but not remedied. There's a gradation in that. Sometimes they have not been corrected because there is no fix for it, but very often a vulnerability has been corrected in the sense that there is an update for it, but users have not applied that update. In the preliminary examination, you see that a system is outdated and you know how to get into it by using an old, well-known vulnerability. It then makes sense to use it, so you don't have to do any harder than the road that lies ahead of you. Of course, there is also a time between remedying a vulnerability and reporting it. You can then get the situation that you use an unknown vulnerability in the first investigation, which you then report because the investigation is finished and you probably didn't even ask permission not to report the vulnerability. It'll be a while before that vulnerability is resolved. At that time it has become a known vulnerability, which you can use until the update is offered. Then you can still use that vulnerability with all the suspects who didn't run the update. This was the block of vulnerabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u178	I stuck around for a while buying in unknown vulnerabilities. The Secretary of State clearly states that the police are not going to do that, because that is not allowed. We then have a grey area, namely buying tools behind which still unknown vulnerabilities can be found. Can the Secretary of State explain that a little bit more? It looks like we'll still be buying unknown vulnerabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u179	Semantic: then it is unknown to you that it is an unknown vulnerability. It could also be a known vulnerability, you don't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u180	I get that. The essence of my objection is that as a government, we do not want to participate in the unfamiliarisation of vulnerabilities and make money by keeping the Internet weak. Whether you know it or not, you know that there are companies behind those tools that have an interest in it, isn't that the opposite to what we as a government are aiming for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u181	Those companies make their money selling tools to get into other systems. That's right. These are sometimes tools that use known vulnerabilities. The product of that company is therefore also finite, because once the vulnerability is discovered and corrected, the product is no longer usable. Maybe that's interesting for them. After all, you have to buy a new product. I do not know exactly what benefits the business model most, but this is indeed a difficult point. By not buying it, you're not making it safer. It's not like it's gonna fix the vulnerability. But it is true that you then buy a product from a company that is legitimate in itself and that may appeal to other customers as well. It depends on where it is located and what the dual use policy of that country is. Other customers may be interested in this, which are less fresh. That's right. That's an uncomfortable corner. But it's not like you're bringing a solution closer or fixing the problem by not buying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u182	The Secretary of State is talking about an uncomfortable corner. If I'm being completely honest, as a representative of the people, I find it just weird to adopt a law that leaves these kind of uncomfortable corners open. Anyway, I seem to be the only one in that. The Secretary of State has just indicated that software is going to be purchased without knowing how it works and that it may indeed use unknown vulnerabilities without knowing that they are in it. Doesn't that mean that you are stimulating a market in which it is extremely attractive for all kinds of parties never to report unknown vulnerabilities but to process them in software bought by governments for hacking? In short, then it becomes much more attractive to process all kinds of unknown vulnerabilities in software instead of reporting them? Isn't that what you do when you're a government that stimulates the black market? The whole story about a secure internet is really just bullshit, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u183	First of all, I want to say a few words about these uncomfortable corners. Then Mr Verhoeven should also reconsider other support for existing practices. We allow the police to carry weapons. The police are pretty much the only agency allowed to do that, along with the army. We also buy these weapons from producers who sell the same products to other people, who have less pleasant plans with them. That's the same kind of uncomfortable corner. That's what I meant by that. Secondly, Mr Verhoeven's point is how decisive the fact that we are also entering that market is for the existence of supply. I have a strong impression that by doing this, we are not creating or strengthening the offer. We're not weakening it either. I have the impression that we are not a crucial factor in this and that, by using it, with all kinds of safeguards and purely aimed at people who are suspected of serious crimes and specifically in this area of law violations in the cyber angle, we can contribute to keeping society safer and to tackling precisely those uncomfortable people who go into the same corner with evil intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u184	I can only conclude that the Secretary of State does not know, and in any case cannot prevent with this law, that the police go with all kinds of parties that have software with all kinds of unknown vulnerabilities. The Secretary of State says: we should take that for granted, because it is also a very good law. My point is this. The Secretary of State keeps saying that safe internet is important. The cabinet has written in letters that closing vulnerabilities is necessary to keep the Internet safe and prevent additional victims. This law leaves room for new, unknown vulnerabilities to spread, to incorporate them into software and thus to make it more attractive for people not to report them, but to sell them on the black market, wrapped in software that the government will then buy? The government is going to encourage that all kinds of vulnerabilities in the Internet are not reported? There's no other way, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u185	In fact, it's different. The situation is independent of this law. I am concerned about this situation, like Mr Verhoeven, and I want to fight it with him. This can be done partly by detecting figures that move in here. That is why I need powers of this kind. But what does Mr Verhoeven do all the time? He pretends that the situation that already exists, whether the bill is passed or rejected, will arise or even be strengthened after the adoption of the bill. That's the link he's making. I think that's a trade-off. I am not blind, in the sense of: the more powers, the better. All things considered, I think we should do this. The disadvantages that Mr Verhoeven rightly calls exist without this law, and with this law we are better able to do something about them. That's the trade-off I'm making. Mr Verhoeven can say that the latter is not true, but I cannot go after people who enter that market now, who buy and trade those vulnerabilities with evil intentions and buy those hacking tools with evil intentions. I can't reach it. A child pornography network can move in that market or use those kinds of vulnerabilities, but it can now and it will not do so more or less with this law. With this law, however, I can make sure that fewer people do it, because I can track down and pick up more of them and collect the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u186	Isn't it true that demand creates supply? If there is demand from different governments for software with vulnerabilities to hack, will there be more supply? Such a law has an effect on the security of the Internet: it makes it more unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u187	This only applies if the increase in demand around this law is such that supply is actually increased. The question is already there and it is so dramatic that I do not think that this law is a crucial factor in this. Of course, the offer depends on the number of vulnerabilities you can make use of. So you can't increase the offer much further. It's just a way to better deal with the wrong people. It's necessary. That's the dilemma I'm in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u188	I would also like to know how much budget we are making to buy this. First you're gonna buy this and then you're gonna prosecute the sellers. That's not gonna work, is it? You can't buy something at the market for zero-days and then say: now that I've bought it and used it, am I going to sue you? You're creating a market that's getting bigger and bigger. We're not the only country that does this. Don't you have to go exactly the other way? Shouldn't you say at European level that you want trade in vulnerabilities to be banned and reported? Then it will no longer provide money to act on it and the benevolent hackers with such a Google initiative will ensure that these vulnerabilities are immediately reported and closed. Isn't it much more sensible for a government to go that way than for that trade, is it illegal or semi-illegal? That's a hard corner to stir up further? I'm sure we're not the only government that does that. Why does the Netherlands not call, at European level, for a ban on this trade and an immediate obligation to report any vulnerability you encounter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u189	Let me be clear. Mrs. Van Tongeren says we're going to enter the market for zero days. So we don't do that. We're not buying zero-days directly. I just said that. We are going to buy things that we do not know for sure if there is an unknown vulnerability in them. I call that uncomfortable, although I do not go as far as the judgment that Mrs Van Tongeren just attached to it. Mrs Van Tongeren only counts the players in the market that belong to the government and the investigation services, but that is only a very small part of that market. The majority of that market consists of other players. I am in favour of any vulnerability being reported. Therefore, in addition to making illegal trafficking difficult, I would like you to offer rewards for responsible disclosure and for smart ethical hackers who are much smarter than I am, who have found a vulnerability and who want to sell or give it to the company. I prefer that a company should say by default: if you report a vulnerability in our system to us, you will receive a bonus or a fee for it. There can also be a bounty hunt written, where you really let people look. We all do. It is not the case that when we adopt this law we are throwing away all the policies that are aimed at cybersecurity in this budget. We will continue to strengthen that policy. It's double. We're trying to close the vulnerabilities. As long as they are not closed, the investigation services can also use them to deal with the evil ones who enter those spheres or other spheres of serious crime. The other dilemma is that we want better locks for everyone, but we also want the opportunity to be able to force the lock specifically on certain individuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u190	If I have understood correctly, the Secretary of State has just indicated that at least the Public Prosecutor's Office will not instruct third parties not to fix vulnerabilities for a while. I'll verify it on this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u191	What Mrs Gesthuizen says is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u192	Mr Verhoeven, you may ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u193	We just had Mr Recourt standing here. He's a valued colleague. He said there's a duty to report. By the way, I have not seen this obligation of notification anywhere in the law, but that aside. Mr Recourt said something like this: after four weeks it has to be reported and if it does not, the police will break the law we are discussing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u194	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u195	The Secretary of State has said that the police are going to buy up unknown vulnerabilities wrapped in software without knowing what vulnerabilities they are. This means that the problem referred to by Mr Recourt is present and that the police are therefore going to break the law, as Mr Recourt has just summarized.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u196	No, that's not true. You have to report it if there is an unknown vulnerability that you knowingly use. I understand that Mr Verhoeven did not find it in the law, but it was in the explanatory statement and in the letter. The amendment tabled by Mr Recourt and Mrs Tellegen to point No. 14 regulates that it is in the law. In anticipation of the adoption of the amendment, it has already been said that you must report it when you have used an unknown vulnerability. So that's already in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u197	The Secretary of State then means that this is the case through the construction of the Judge Commissioner, referring to the amendment tabled by Mr Recourt and Mrs Tellegen. But that amendment does not say that it is four weeks. My point is this. The Secretary of State says we're not going out on the zero-days market. That's a cosmetic answer based on language. In addition, he uses the argument that we do not know the zero-days that are then used because they are in software that the police cannot understand. With all due respect to the Secretary of State, isn't that just a cosmetic answer to a fundamental question? Then the Secretary of State, on the basis of a language-handedness, ignores my point, doesn't he? The Secretary of State says we're not going on the zero-day market, but he also says we're going to buy stuff that we don't even know what's in it. That is simply ignoring a serious point of criticism from a number of parties, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u198	I say it again: I think it is very good that we have a fundamental discussion and that we have a difference of opinion. However, I regret that Mr Verhoeven has shown a little bit that if you do not have the same opinion as him, you have not given it any serious thought. I'm taking this seriously. That's why the law we're discussing here is different from the law that was originally filed. I've also been looking at all these dilemmas. It's not a word game. They are different types of products, some of which are excluded and some are not because you don't know where they are used. Suppose you say we don't buy that software either, because he can use unknown vulnerabilities. This may mean that the police cannot buy software that does not use unknown vulnerabilities. That's the problem with things you don't know exactly how they work. With that consideration and for all the reasons I have just mentioned, I do not see that it will lead to a deterioration in the situation, because, unfortunately, that market is already there. Those other markets concern other products and other transactions. There's nothing cosmetic about that. It may be interesting in the interest of detection to buy an unknown vulnerability and then build the retool ourselves, but we do not. They're really different products.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u199	I have one more question on this point. Again, it is good that the government does not buy at least if it knows that it is an unknown vulnerability. It may also be that the government doesn't know. But why don't you just do it yourself, whether or not helped by ethical hackers and whether or not helped by Fox-IT or any company? It is genuinely a technical and substantive question. Why would you go into that market when it's an uncomfortable market, and not just do it yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u200	Doing so yourself in the sense of the police who target a suspect sees the system and discovers a vulnerability; sure. But don't do it yourself as in: call on society to report vulnerabilities to the police in future, to filter whether they are usable, and then close. The moment someone in society discovers a vulnerability that is not yet known, I want it just reported to the NCSC. Then it is immediately forwarded to the software supplier or the hardware supplier who has the vulnerability and then it is closed. So I don't want to take a step in the direction of: maybe it's interesting to keep them open for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u201	I totally agree with that, but here's what I'm concerned about. There's been an investigation, and the police are gonna look, except the door's locked, there's no window open. All alternatives are excluded. We must now tackle truly unknown vulnerabilities. Then why doesn't the police investigate the software themselves? Again, not hiring any experts, because then you can skip the market, which is really not nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u202	This will happen in many cases, but there are also products sold that only work on outdated phones or phones with an outdated version of the operating system. I won't mention brand names. Then the police still don't know how that software works technically. It is very likely that it is a known vulnerability that it uses. That's the hard part about the market. When I say that you can't buy from companies like that, where you don't know if under the hood the vulnerability that is used is known or unknown, I do rule out a lot, and I wouldn't touch unknown vulnerabilities, which could be very useful for the police to use. I'm on my way to other technical matters. Mrs Helder asked if I would be prepared to introduce the AMvB first for the authority to invade an automated work in relation to the old Decision on technical devices criminal proceedings. That is indeed the case. This new AMvB will have to be established before the law can enter into force. Mrs Helder, as well as others, asked a question about international law. Because you easily cross borders in computer crime, there's a risk that you'll do the same in the search. We aim to have a proper legal framework for this. We do this at EU level and within the Council of Europe. There isn't one yet. I also discussed it with colleagues in the JHA Council last week. Then you will notice a great deal of consensus on the final objective, but there is not yet a new regulation or a treaty in a year's time. In the meantime, I believe that we should give priority to tackling crime and not give free rein to criminals until we have made new agreements. But you do see developments, for example about connected interest, as it is now called in the discussion. For example, the Belgians often say: if the victim is ours, we believe that we can go very far in this matter. As soon as you know who it is and if it's a country with which you have proper appointments, you'll report it neatly. Usually you say, the moment you find out, we've already done this and that. There are good working arrangements among European countries. Usually it goes in good harmony and says such a country: fine. You make it formal for a while, but then there's no problem. There are also countries that are very well-known places of refuge for criminals. Then you're not gonna wait for a legal aid application, because the whole digital economy is, so to speak, about facilitating criminal behavior. With such a country you will adopt a different attitude than with friendly countries with which you prefer to settle it formally in a good treaty or in good agreements. Mrs Helder asked whether we could limit the powers to hostage, manslaughter and trafficking in human beings. I do not want to limit it to that; I do want to limit it to all crimes that have been on it for eight years or more and to the list of offences specifically related to this atmosphere, that is to say cybercrimes, to put it bluntly. I also mention a number of cases of sex. Then you will eventually have a closed system by that combination of the criterion eight years or more, and the AMvB list. Can Europol play a role in cross-border cooperation and investigations? This can be done by the joint investigation teams, in which several countries make research efforts. It is not the case that Europol is a self-employed service or in a general sense brings together many of the countries and performs a function in it. Mrs Van Tongeren and others have asked questions about ex post supervision, possibly with an external committee instead of our inspection. In this law there are many times different forms of supervision. That's actually starting when you're considering using the jurisdiction. Then you'll have to see a judge commissioner. Next, a court judge is involved. We also have the system supervision of the state inspection with independent judgment. From personal experience, I can tell you that she does not feel any obstacle in forming an independent judgment and then letting you know. So I see no reason to do that differently. A link has been established with the intelligence services and the CTIVD. That's where it was created because there's no judge in it, while that judge is in it. Then you'd be in a new system where there's a judge, taking over something that's entered somewhere else because there's no judge in it. I think that's a complicated construction. Then you get some kind of crowded surveillance. Then we have a new body that also affects the form of judgment that the public prosecutor and the judge themselves should be able to make in independence. I do not think it is an appropriate way of shaping this. Do we, by allowing ourselves something if we do not know whether we are in the Netherlands or abroad in terms of servers, think that anyone else can on our systems? No, of course not. We also expect it to be reported from abroad as soon as the law of being on Dutch servers is in place. We are seeking better umbrella arrangements to streamline and modernise this. Then demand for the type of automated work and possibly excluding certain categories. The power to conduct investigations in an automated work is only available for certain investigative acts, such as the taking over of data. The law doesn't say you can stop a car. The power should not be used for that. Furthermore, there are all these strict conditions and guarantees that we have discussed with the judge-supervisor and the prosecutor, who is also judging them. I cannot imagine a situation in which research to a pacemaker contributes to an investigation. Why, then, am I not in favour of a exhaustive list of automated works where it is possible or never allowed? That is because I feel that human creativity is greater than we can foresee here today. Maybe last year or two years ago you said, "What are you doing with a car?" In the meantime, there is a navigation system that is accessible from a distance. When I see TV commercials now, it seems as if it is more important how strong the Wi-Fi signal from the hotspot in the car is than what kind of engine is under the hood. Then you have another whole network in which you could find useful information that can give you access to the cloud services of the suspect you are looking for. This may prevent you from using unknown vulnerabilities or other tools. On the contrary, I do not think it is wise to regulate very technology-specific in advance and to rule things out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u203	Were you at the end of the engineering block? I don't feel that way. Let's wrap up that block. Then Mrs. Van Tongeren is allowed to interrupt afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u204	I must honestly say that this whole pile is somewhat less structured than I thought, but this is the end of the block on the definition of the technology-dependent automated work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u205	Good. I now give Mrs Van Tongeren the opportunity to ask her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u206	I agree with the Secretary of State that predicting the future is very complicated, but that applies to the whole of the legislative area and not just here. My question is about working such as the storm barrier, the gas distribution station in Groningen and, for example, the pumping capacity for Ringdijk 14. Are these kinds of works not working which we say we absolutely want to exclude from these kinds of possibilities, because they are quite essential for the existence of the Netherlands as we know it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u207	I can't imagine cases where a police officer thinks about it at all, an officer writes the order or gives the judge commissioner permission to do so. Apart from that, Mrs Van Tongeren gives the impression that applying these powers to that network would make it more vulnerable. That's an assumption in her question I don't share.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u208	No, but the Secretary of State says on a lot of points "I feel this," "I think that," "that's not gonna happen," "that judge commissioner is way too smart." What's he basing his trust on? Why would you say some of these kinds of works, the RAI Association, aren't just clear-cut for nothing, to indicate that it doesn't even need to be thought about anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u209	I'm not gonna give you that nuance just to get rid of the fact that you have to regulate it properly. I do it to make it clear, and I will continue to do so tonight, that I do not want to give the impression that the scenarios asked for are always as realistic as they are brought forward. I keep pointing out the safeguards that are already in there. It's not like I have blind faith. There's guarantees in it. That is how we do it in the Netherlands with a lot of powers. I'm not in favour of ruling things out. Now take the RAI Association and cars. Stopping cars while they're driving is not a jurisdiction. I don't have to rule that out. It is strange to create this kind of barrier in the networked environment where these powers are held, and where development is increasingly becoming more and more unclear where one part of the network ends and the next begins. I don't see how you can make that distinction. For example, if a vulnerability allows you to view the password of a navigation system that is logged into Facebook, and if you can go further into the cloud, then it is a fundamental problem if you say: if I find it on a system that is in a car, it is not allowed, but on its smartphone. I consider that to be inappropriate technological regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u210	I can follow the Secretary of State for a long time when he says, "I don't want to rule things out in advance," because we all argued that technology is going so fast. Then it's weird to say right now that we're going to rule out a number of devices, when we can't foresee now or we'll ever need them. But then the Chamber will no longer have any influence, because the Secretary of State can make that list himself. The note on the report states in detail that government policy is not a frontrunner. The Chamber can't talk about it in advance. I don't think that's a good idea. Then you say it all goes so fast with the technology, but the Chamber has no influence at all at the time the Secretary of State is going to add things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u211	I am thinking of the AMvB, which contains the description of the crime that is not eight years or more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u212	No, also on limiting or not limiting the devices, the definition of automated work. This is also true of the fact that it has not been contained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u213	No, and I'm not suggesting that that list be reduced further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u214	Then I say to the Secretary of State: then the Chamber must take the initiative to restrict it, because the Secretary of State does not want to restrict it in any way. On the other hand, he says that he can add endless things to the crimes, all of which are categorized, without the Chamber being able to do anything about it. That's incredibly contradictory, isn't it? The Chamber must restrict one category if it wants to do so, because the Secretary of State does not want to do so himself, but the Secretary of State has the opportunity to extend everything when it comes to penalties. Then the Chamber won't even have an influence in advance to stop that. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u215	Mr Verhoeven is right in saying that I am not advocating any backsliding and that I am not advocating a procedure for which I shall first introduce the concept of the AMvB into the Chamber. At the same time, these AMvBs will be known. That is not a very formal procedure, but I cannot imagine an AMvB being expressed with which the majority of the Chamber has major problems and which then lasts for a long time. I don't want to go into the formal procedure with the veil, but those aren't secret things. The Chamber always has an opinion on this. If we now make this a very formal procedure, then it will all take a very long time. I don't think that's gonna help society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u216	Anyone following this debate should actually think: the Chamber is really being called. If the Secretary of State is going to explain here why we don't have to take it so closely with how we normally deal with things that the Chamber says "this is really important, so we want to get back to it because then we can discuss it," if the Secretary of State is going to explain now that this is never really necessary and that we can really read it in the newspaper or in an angry letter from an organization and then we can actually call the bell here, then we are really putting the horse behind the car. I don't want to debate in that way, I really don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u217	That's a nice as-dan reasoning where I haven't pronounced the "ifs," fortunately, so then the "then" doesn't come either. The Chamber cannot be called into question because all the procedures we have at our disposal have ever been discussed together. The Chamber voted on its existence. It is possible to have an AMvB without a front. That is a procedure maintained by the Chamber. So you can't say the room's being paged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u218	Finalizing, Mrs. Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u219	The Secretary of State is here explaining why it is not necessary in this case, whereas that would be very desirable. We're having quite a debate about it tonight. This is about particularly ethical issues. It's kind of about something. It is about fundamental rights, about fundamental freedoms and about our general freedom. Then you can't say that in that case it doesn't have to be taken so closely? It is precisely in these cases that it is necessary to set up the formal procedure in this way, with a veil on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u220	Mrs Gesthuizen and I do not disagree on the gravity of the debate. The formal route that an AMvB is going to follow, in which I point to what is going to be in it. These are the crimes that are very much related to cybercrime and a number of sex crimes, on which I come to speak further in response to Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment, which is not a huge black box. I think that this procedure is perfectly appropriate to the normal way in which the Chamber and the Cabinet are treated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u221	Next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u222	Mrs Van Tongeren asked about the system in Germany. The Germans have a somewhat similar jurisdiction but in a more limited number of offences. That's their choice, their society. I do not know how long they can effectively serve society, but Germany is not the Netherlands and vice versa. Germany can make that choice. I don't see a problem with that. As soon as we discover that we are on a German server, we will simply report this in the proper operational agreement and submit a request for legal aid. That's just gonna take hold of it that way. At the moment, we do not have the idea that this is going to cause problems. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked whether international law does not oppose the practice proposed, even when it comes to accessing cloud services where you are not sure where you are. International law gives great importance to the principle of sovereignty, but cloud computing does not make it clear where the data is located. Sometimes a cloud service provider doesn't even know it. If it is not clear where the data are, then you cannot rely on it either. We are also dealing with a somewhat outdated concept of jurisdiction, which has not yet been adapted in formal law to the new situation with cyberspace. Now you can either choose not to act, or not to file a legal aid application until you know it. As long as you don't know, and if you never find out, you can't perform anymore. That's not an option for me, because that would mean that if the location isn't known, criminals are free to go. That would also be a rather easy way for criminals to stay out of harm's way forever. International cooperation rules are governed by international law and international conventions. There is no international code with specific rules for this. There are important multilateral treaties and bilateral legal aid treaties. This is now being used. However, I have already said that there is also a need for adaptation to meet the requirements of modern times. We have also been asked what we have done about this in a European context during the Dutch Presidency. We have indeed raised this issue. Just after the Dutch Presidency in July, Council conclusions were adopted asking the Commission to draw up a proposal for alternatives to action if one does not know exactly who to ask for legal aid. The Commission is working on this proposal and presented the progress made during the last JHA Council. There it appeared that this part of the triple assignment had just been the least done. We have encouraged the Commission to come up with a plan not only for July 2017, but also to consult everyone well in advance. The Commission must ensure that we can really have good new anchor points for it, in order to be able to deal with criminals, including cross-border crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u223	This was the end of the block on jurisdiction. Mrs Van Tongeren wants to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u224	You'll notice everywhere during this treatment that it's pretty light-hearted about it. You can see that at this point. The explanatory statement states that the issuing of the authorisation may be based on "the obligation of the Public Prosecutor to comply with the rules in the field of international cooperation." Next, the Secretary of State tells us that there are no customary or international treaties explaining this clearly. That is exactly what I said in my contribution. How can the Secretary of State write in the explanatory statement that we are sticking to the rules, and then he tells us here: well, those rules aren't there yet, it's all very complicated, but we still have to prosecute, so we're going to prosecute? If that is the case, can we not say in the explanatory statement that we can assume that the rules on international cooperation are being complied with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u225	I find it hard to imagine that I'm being light about something, because I barely have air. But from the point of view of substance, I have to say, you're sticking to rules that are clear. I also say that in many areas the problem is that we do not yet have rules for these cases because those cases were not foreseen. I think that goes well together, especially since I added that I do not want rules to never be laid down for these cases, but that I want us to make good new agreements on this. As long as they're not there, it's a little bit dark. But the criminals can't have the advantage of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u226	The Secretary of State first explains in detail that the Netherlands is not Germany, that we have jurisdiction in our own territory, that we draw up our own rules and that the Germans do. However, the explanatory statement states that if you are abroad, you must comply with the rules in the field of international cooperation. That text is simply in the explanatory memorandum. Then there is the explanation of the explanatory statement: well, those rules are not yet in place, and if they are not, we do not have to stick to anything, because we want to catch bad guys. This is an incredibly airy way of dealing with something so fundamental, something that violates the fundamental rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u227	That's realistic. "Infringement of the fundamental rights of citizens" again ignores the fact that fundamental rights are not absolute. There may be reasons of a heavy nature to put them aside. That is why the investigative powers contain all kinds of safeguards. So it's not a question of this either: gosh, let's have a look at a civilian's system. I indicated that the rules are inadequate. There are no rules in case you're in one place but don't know where you are. This has traditionally been rather difficult to imagine. Maybe you don't know whether you're in Belgium or in the Netherlands, but online that's the order of the day. All our old rules are based on the assumption that you always know where you are, in what country and in what jurisdiction. We're gonna get into trouble with that right now. So as soon as you know where you are, the rules we have will apply. If you don't know that, it's really very common for..... it's not regulated. I would like to regulate that with other countries. As long as that is not the case, we do not say: we have not yet arranged anything about it, so we stay away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u228	At the end of the last block, the Secretary of State's reasoning was: since you don't know what you're buying, it's okay. Now we have arrived at the next block and the Secretary of State says: you don't really know where the server or the automated work is, so we can break into it, because we also don't know if that server is in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u229	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u230	Those are two examples of wet fingering legislation, aren't they? Isn't this raging on all sides? I want to look at it with all the positivity. I really tried. I've asked all kinds of questions. I've outlined scenarios. I've indicated that I have concerns. I said that I saw improvements in the law compared to the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u231	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u232	But there are just constantly points in it that the Secretary of State says: I don't know, so let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u233	I can change the law to provide guarantees for all these scenarios. I cannot reduce the complexity of the world so that Mr Verhoeven feels comfortable with it. We have to deal with the world as it is. In today's online world, you don't always know where to spin the cabinet with the data geographically or physically with the cooler. 15 minutes later, that could be somewhere else. That's the world we live in now. We need new legislation for this, because the old legislation does not provide for this. That is why I want to regulate this for the Netherlands in this way. Then, in a European context, I want to go further, but that is even more complicated to agree on the way in which we deal with it. I'd be lying if I told you that during the search, you'd always know the physical location of the locker where the data is at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u234	That's clear. I'm glad the Secretary of State isn't gonna lie to get this law through. So that's good. I am concerned with a few things that I think various parties make a different balance of interests. The Secretary of State says, on the one hand, that I have built in all kinds of safeguards to ensure that this law does not all touch fundamental fundamental rights and that there are no new threats to the security of the Internet. On the other hand, he keeps saying at the end of his speech: all these guarantees, I don't really know, so we're just gonna do it. Then you might as well not build in any guarantees at all. You might as well say it doesn't matter at all. I find it strange that the Secretary of State is making all kinds of attempts to ensure that it is as safe as possible, but at the end of the day it must always be noted that the built-in safety valves are not sufficient to remove my concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u235	The removal of Mr Verhoeven's concerns is a rather subjective bar. That's all he cares about. Objectively speaking, it is not the case that all the safeguards we have rightly built in are destroyed by the fact that you do not always know where the server is. That is precisely what the safeguards are for. So they're valid, too. Even then, the same things apply, which I will not repeat. These apply not only when you know that a server is in the Netherlands. It therefore does not affect the guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u236	The Secretary of State continues with the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u237	That's the question of the relationship with the Source Protection Bill. Mr Verhoeven believes that we should adopt this bill before we can adopt it. I do not agree with him because the Bill on Source Protection in Criminal Matters, which has been waiting for some time for plenary treatment, provides for the legal anchoring of the right to source protection. It's not like there's no source protection until then. It's just not legally anchored. At the moment, it is contained in an appointment from the College of Attorney General. That just works. There is therefore a possibility of protection of resources, which also runs smoothly if this bill is adopted. It will then be legally anchored later. Mr Verhoeven asked who checks whether entry has gone by the book if a case does not come before a judge. Then you'll have the district attorney and the judge commissioner for that time. The Safety and Justice Inspectorate can also monitor this in the framework of system supervision, as Mr Recourt also asked. It also has access, if it so wishes, to the individual cases in which it has taken place. Mrs Gesthuizen asked how we are going to conduct the procedure around the AMvB and what we are thinking of setting it up. We are talking about crimes committed by means of automated work, where there is a clear social interest in ending the criminal situation and in prosecuting the perpetrators. Then you can think of using the botnet, offering, spreading or possessing child pornography, seduction from minors to fornication and grooming. Often, without this, you don't have a point of contact for the search. Through the AMvB, the legislator can respond more quickly to new developments when needed. How long will the hacking order take? It shall be issued for a maximum period of four weeks. Only the purposes set out in the order may be investigated. It may be renewed for another four weeks, but that requires a new authorisation from the Judge Commissioner. This also applies to additions or modifications to the order during its term. I'm gonna need the judge's commissioner's permission to do that. Mr Verhoeven had a question about the exact time of entry: how do you determine the maximum time frame for jurisdiction? The time of entry will be shown in the logging. The time frame within which it is exercised shall be determined by the limits of the public prosecutor's order. That can therefore be up to four weeks at a time when the order is accepted by the judge commissioner. Mr Verhoeven wanted a guarantee. That's gonna be hard. He wanted to make it inaccessible to really serious crimes. In any case, he did not want a disguised possibility of censoring the free word, and I agree with him. For the purposes of applying that power, it is required that this constitutes a serious breach of the legal order.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are no issues that are purely about the use of the free word. So the automated work must be instrumental in committing the crime and there must be a clear social interest. Mrs Gesthuizen asked how much more work the bill will bring for the judges. We don't know yet. This depends on the commitment and whether or not certain amendments are accepted. It has not yet entered into force. We will consider before the entry into force what the additional tax is and whether additional measures are needed. Mrs Gesthuizen asked about the supervision afterwards: is that only with a tip when someone calls or complains? It's system surveillance. That could shape the Department of Security and Justice. These are cases which have been brought before the courts, but also cases which have not come to court may then be examined by the inspection. That doesn't depend on an outside report. There was a question about the role of the Personal Data Authority. Can the Dutch Data Protection Authority no longer do so? She can do something as far as privacy and data protection are concerned, but I do not think it adds anything to add to the whole range of different forms of supervision in this spectrum. Mr Recourt wants to know if hacking is an ultimatum remedium. Yes, that's the case. If less heavy resources are available, they are preferable. Mrs Gesthuizen has asked what a person can do if he thinks he has been violated in his rights. There is no penalty penalty for non-compliance with the obligation to notify, which is not considered to be a suspect informed by means of a subpoena and a search warrant has been put in place. If there is no prosecution and the obligation to notify has not been fulfilled, then of course it has gone quite wrong and one can complain to the Public Prosecutor himself or to the National Ombudsman. How is the expertise of the Judge Commissioner guaranteed? The Cybercrime Knowledge Centre, which is housed in the court of The Hague, must take care of this. The plan of action on cybercrime has also been asked. I believe that this question concerns the motion adopted last week, which calls for an integral plan, from prevention to prosecution, to be drawn up in consultation with the private sector. In the first quarter of next year we will work with a number of private-public round tables, in which this point will come back. When they are completed, we will inform the Chamber further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u238	End of the block?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u239	I have a few things to say about supervision and, above all, expertise. It has been asked whether the inspection will have a dedicated ICT department. IVenJ is a national inspection which, on the basis of the work programme and the expertise itself, can collect information and form an independent opinion. It must therefore continue to set its sights on this task. It will need additional expertise to do this properly. It will therefore have to be provided for. So much for the block of surveillance and inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u240	I have an enlightening question about the judge's expertise. Do I understand correctly the Secretary of State that he says that the judge commissioner in the court of The Hague is going to do this and that he or she is going to receive special training for that purpose? Is he or she a specialized judge commissioner with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u241	The centre of expertise is indeed at the court of The Hague. I will come back to it specifically in the second term. I think that's wiser than doing it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u242	I have a question about the four-week period. Surely the Secretary of State has to admit that this four-time working period can always be extended?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u243	Yes, it is possible to request an extension if necessary for the investigation. The judge's commissioner will have to decide if that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u244	That's just what the text says, so I understand that, but the PvdA has just linked some kind of reporting obligation to it, so after four weeks the vulnerability must have been reported. However, if the deadline for the police to use a vulnerability can be extended, Mr Recourt's obligation to report could also be extended by four works. Then we will continue to maintain the situation that vulnerabilities, whatever their nature, are being used and are not going to be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u245	Shorter than without the law, because if there wasn't, you didn't have a term and it depended on third parties. I keep repeating that. In this case, it depends on the specific case. It is also conceivable that the unknown vulnerability will be used to gain access to the system, after which the police will no longer be dependent on that vulnerability in order to continue to do so. Then the judge commissioner will say: now it is no longer functional, now you just have to report it and you can continue with other powers. However, in the case of that self-built communication app in the criminal network, the judge commissioner may say "you may have four more weeks," but at the end, when the investigation is completed, it is said that this vulnerability does not need to be reported to these criminals. There are in theory all kinds of variants; I can't deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u246	Next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u247	I'll be on the vice. Mr Recourt asked whether the amendment tabled by VVD and CDA solves the problems in the case law with the use of the decoy. With this amendment to this bill, the description of the offence of seduction of a minor and grooming changes in such a way that contact with a person pretending to be a minor becomes a criminal offence. Yes, it is. It remains difficult to use the evidence from virtual systems. That's not because of this bill; that has to do with the question "when are you going to cross that line of entrapment?" And that is in the spirit of the Tallon criterion of the Supreme Court: are you going to let someone do something he wouldn't otherwise have done? That's still a field of tension. On a case-by-case basis, it is assessed whether this is indeed the case. For virtual resources, it is more likely to be found to be inciting. That dilemma, that tension remains. With the bill, the human decoy, let me just call it, is better anchored. As a result, it is possible that a detective who is of age may appear online as a minor and collect evidence with a wait-and-see attitude. Mrs. Tellegen asked for that. Then it can also be avoided that it is unlawful evidence of entrapment, but this requires a degree of passivity and a waiting attitude in the detective's contacts. Mrs Van Toorenburg had a question about the combination of this bill with the bill on the glorification of terrorism. I am not going to go along with that for a while, because that bill has not yet been passed. I don't want to speculate on that. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked whether it would not be wise to add the inciting of hatred to the list, for example through the AMvB. I don't think that's the right way to go. If criminal content now appears on the Internet, it can be operated through the notice-and-take-down behavior code and if that does not help, it can be executed via an expulsion order under Article 125p of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I come to the questions about capacity and organisation. Mrs. Tellegen asked how to increase the willingness to report these types of crimes. In my opinion, the most important thing for this is that people really have the idea that it can lead to persecution and results. That is why this law is crucial. Let me put it this way: without this law, encouraging the willingness to report would be a much greater challenge. Apart from that, the letter of 15 September last on the declaration readiness in a broad sense announced measures such as the improvement of the services provided by the police, including in cybercrime and digitised crime, and specific hotlines together with other partners such as the National Information Point Internet Scam, the Children's Porn Information Point and the Central Information Point Identity fraud and debt fraud. Furthermore, the NCSC has a cybercrime tool, which is also at the service of improving the willingness to report and the quality of the declaration. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the follow-up to the discussions we would have with various parties on improving the notice-and-take-down procedure. There has been an expert meeting with interested parties organised by Europol at my request. It appeared that the rate of participation, which is seen by those who cooperate well in the procedure, is 95%. The necessary progress has also been made in the context of the Netherlands Schoon project. In the short term, the proceeds will be made public and it will also be clear which measures can be taken preventively. The Minister will inform the Chamber of Churches on various issues, when he also discusses the commitments made during the general consultation on child pornography in April. They asked how the police could make good use of this law when it comes. Of course, this requires expertise. It is also recruited externally. The potential available to the police is being further developed. The aim is to have 100 FTE extra available for digital expertise each year until 2018 and to have a digital cyber team in each unit, which can be a flywheel to be able to detect digitally in the police organisation in a broad sense. After all, this is becoming an ever wider part of daily work. That is why these are the objectives, at least until 2018. Mrs Van Tongeren asked if you are criminal if you delete the malware that was placed by the police, for example. No, it's not illegal to do that. If it's okay, the suspect doesn't know who planted the malware: a criminal or the government. Of course, he can always protect himself or arm himself by removing such elements from the system or by remedying vulnerabilities. Mr Verhoeven asked whether there were sufficient rc's and courts with knowledge in the field of ICT. We are in agreement with the Council on the case law on how best to do that. This is, of course, about the dissemination of knowledge, expertise and advice, but also about the further development, because it is increasingly important for other types of crime to have knowledge of these kinds of topics. It has been asked whether there has been any consultation with the Dutch Order of Lawyers on the collection of mail addresses for the change. From the D.A.'s office, some lawyers, so not necessarily to the Order, have suggested that addresses can be provided, so that emails sent to or from those addresses can be automatically unreadable. The prosecution is therefore open to Mr Verhoeven's idea. At that time the lawyer did not immediately respond positively, but that might change. Mr Verhoeven's thought is certainly in the public prosecutor's interest. Mr Verhoeven asked, in line with his interruption just now, how long it takes for vulnerabilities to be reported. The principle is to report as soon as possible. If that gets delayed, it's not about set-off. First, the prosecution itself will judge whether it is presenting this at all to the judge-supervisor. That may be even before an investigation is completed if the vulnerability is no longer necessary at the time. Otherwise, after the investigation or when the judge-supervisor says: that's it. I now come to the amendments. The amendment in part No. 10 member Van Tongeren aims to shorten the evaluation period from five years to three years. I personally believe... no, that's not true. The cabinet believes that five years is a good horizon, because in practice you should have the opportunity to become familiar with these new powers and to respond to them with the whole system of supervision. I would therefore advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 12, by Mr Verhoeven, is aimed at a committee of supervision of the investigation services. I would also advise against that amendment. In the debate, I gave the necessary responses, including the content, to questions on this subject. The amendment tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 13 by Mr Verhoeven, Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Gesthuizen are aimed at banning the use of vulnerabilities. We have also discussed this in detail. I think that would really undermine the strength of the opportunity we have to fight crime. That is why I do not recommend that amendment. The amendment in part No. Mr Recourt and Mr Tellegen spoke about anchoring the delay in reporting vulnerabilities. It seems to me quite logical that I should leave the opinion to the Chamber, because I have in fact taken more of that amendment than the original legislative proposal, which contained a lighter form of supervision. I think this is a workable way, which makes it more clear than the proposal I have sent to the Chamber that the standard is that vulnerabilities that are unknown must be reported and that it also imposes strict conditions on the justification for postponing that notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u248	The Secretary of State gives the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. Mrs Tellegen and Mr Recourt suggested that vulnerabilities should be reported. In his speech, however, he has literally stated that the amendment cannot be complied with, because the government is also going to buy software containing all kinds of unknown vulnerabilities, which by definition cannot be reported and can not be closed. The Secretary of State therefore leaves the opinion on an amendment to the Chamber, saying that it is based on that amendment, while he has stated in his own speech that it is not certain whether it can be complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u249	I would not like to mix the amendment with this discussion, because my original proposal and my letter to the Chamber, although not legally anchored, also assumed that reporting a known unknown vulnerability as a rule would be as soon as possible. Now I'm getting a little Donald Rumsfeld, but Mr Verhoeven zooms in on the "unknown unknown vulnerability," so you've purchased something you don't know what it's based on and can't report that vulnerability. With everything else, I think the amendment is very much in line anyway. I also said that we are not going to buy unknown vulnerabilities as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u250	Now I also get a little more cynical and explain the one-two between Mr Recourt and the Secretary of State as follows. Mr Recourt pretends to solve a problem which the PvdA considers very important, namely that unknown vulnerabilities are quickly reported, that they are not dealt with and that they are closed as soon as possible, preferably within four weeks. The Secretary of State then said that he thought it was a very good amendment, while he said in his speech that its implementation was impossible. That is the one-two with which this law is helped by a majority and pushed through the Chamber. I think that's weird. I also find it strange that the Labour Party is tabling an amendment which it has actually heard is not feasible at the level the PvdA itself wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u251	Mr Verhoeven is taking a bit of a walk with what has changed. As soon as the police investigate a system and discover a previously unknown vulnerability that will allow it to enter the system, this amendment must be legally anchored. The amendment is therefore certainly feasible. The moment the police enter the system for this example, it doesn't matter exactly how much of a criminal who is very skilled online in all kinds of dark business and the police find a bundle of information on unknown vulnerabilities, those vulnerabilities must be reported. Then the police cannot say: we put that knowledge on the shelf for a moment because it might be useful for later cases. These vulnerabilities must be reported, as the amendment states. In all these cases, therefore, the amendment is perfectly practicable and it is perfectly logical that it should be reported. The amendment makes it a tighter, heavier procedure than I had proposed. So I do not see what Mr Verhoeven makes of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u252	I think I'm gonna join that discussion a little bit. I have heard the Secretary of State say literally: I leave the judgment on Amendment No. 14 to the Chamber, and in fact I have already taken this amendment on the basis of my answer. It does not work that way either as far as I am concerned, because that amendment does not really make sense. It says, "Sixth department delay reporting unknown vulnerabilities." But the explanatory memorandum does not mention "unknown vulnerabilities" once. That's just about "vulnerabilities." So I have to read that these are both known and unknown vulnerabilities. It's still not about reporting. The amendment seeks to ensure that there should be an authorisation from the Judge Commissioner if you want to leave a vulnerability open for a while. I think that is quite different from what the legislative proposal says, while the Secretary of State says: when replying, I assumed that this amendment had already been adopted. I would almost like to do the treatment again, because then I feel fucked in the suit too. I agree with my colleagues Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Verhoeven, because that is the way I am being sent with a brat in the reed at the end of this long debate. And that is not the way it is, certainly not in such a far-reaching area of competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u253	That's more of a self-reflection over the last hour, I think. Otherwise, it wouldn't have been any different. Interrupts have also been asked all the time when the judge Commissioner would or would not allow a vulnerability not to be reported or tolerated, whereas it is contained in the amendment and the original bill states that it is the public prosecutor himself. In replying to questions on this subject, I did not always say: "Hey, according to the bill, it is the state's attorney's office." That's the only difference. Now that I am assessing the amendment, I will say this out loud, but perhaps you should not always do so, because we have been discussing the situation in which the judge-in-chief is judging whether or not it is appropriate to postpone it. That is what this amendment says. I believe that we have all taken that as our starting point, including in the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u254	My own amendments are not left to the discretion of the Chamber, but I will not ask any questions about them. I would like to make this point even more clear and thank the President for the space she has given us. Everyone knows that there are unknown vulnerabilities in the software that can be purchased from HackingTeam or from all kinds of players on the darknet. Everyone knows that. The HackingTeam company was hacked and that hack brought out all unknown vulnerabilities. That's just a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u255	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u256	I'm going a step further. So it is certainly this, too, that I say to Mr Recourt that if the government buys that software, it will buy unknown vulnerabilities. Then it is also certain that absolutely unknown vulnerabilities are purchased by the government without being reported. It is also absolutely certain that the PvdA and VVD amendments will not be complied with according to the procedure which the Secretary of State himself has just admitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u257	That's not true. Sorry, but Mr Verhoeven makes it different with his absolutes and 100% certainty. The louder he calls it, the less of it remains. We know that those companies are also offering software that uses unknown vulnerabilities. I agree with Mr Verhoeven, but I cannot say with 100% certainty that all their software uses them. They also have software that states that it is only useful for certain types of outdated devices with certain old operating software. So you can't say that all the products that contain vulnerabilities, but I do think that if you buy products there, you'll also buy products based on unknown vulnerabilities. That does not mean that what is in the amendment or what was already in the law and in my letter about reporting is worthless. Again, Mr Verhoeven makes this one scenario the standard. It is not the case that the police, in all those cases where unknown vulnerabilities are used, use unknown vulnerabilities in that kind of software. Sorry, it's no different. I told you myself it's a little rumsfeldian, but when we laugh away how complex it is, we don't get there either. It may be that the police want a suspect's system inside. She's doing preliminary research into that system and discovers that there's a way in. She does it herself. Then she goes to the judge's commissioner and says she wants to go in, and she wants to go in that way and that way. She's getting permission to do that. Then she says: we did it through an unknown vulnerability. My letter says this has to be reported. If the amendment is adopted, it will also be legally anchored. So this unknown vulnerability is reported. Scenario 2 is that during the investigation you find unknown vulnerabilities on a suspect's system. You can't keep it to yourself for possible future use, but you have to report it. Scenario 3 is that you don't know you have an unknown vulnerability. Then you don't know there's anything to report and you can't report that vulnerability. That's right. However, all three scenarios exist. Mr Verhoeven always mentions only one, but that does not mean that all the other realities are no longer there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u258	Mr Verhoeven, you may ask a final, really short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u259	I'm glad the Secretary of State admits that what I'm saying can happen in any case. I have spoken about a one-two between the PvdA and the Secretary of State, but I take that back, because I regret to say that this is just a fake amendment. As Mrs Helder said, the aim of the amendment is to strengthen the legal anchoring of the rule that vulnerabilities in automated works should be reported by the Public Prosecutor. That is the purpose of this amendment. That can simply be bypassed, because it says: yes, but we also have all kinds of software we buy, which we don't know what's in it. We don't know there are any unknown vulnerabilities. The "unknown unknown vulnerabilities," as the Secretary of State calls them. This will simply pass this whole amendment by that category. And if we're all pretending to be whining about a few details, that we have to move on quickly, that it's all very nice that we've come up with this and that the world is getting a lot safer, then I really think that's an incorrect representation of the situation. I also think it is an incorrect representation of the scope of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u260	I didn't hear a question. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Mrs Gesthuizen also wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u261	I'll bite my lip.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u262	I hope the Secretary of State does not bite his lip, because I would like to go through with this. The Secretary of State even says three times: we have the first category, we have the second category and only in the third category, namely the unknown vulnerabilities, there is a problem. But the fact that there are two other categories doesn't remove that problem with that third category, does it? So what is the solution to this dilemma? Or isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u263	I did not say that this would solve the problem. I responded to the words of Mr Verhoeven, who, in the third scenario, claimed that everything else is of zero and no value and that it is a fake amendment. It is a real amendment that becomes real law. It's about how to deal with the unknown vulnerabilities you know about. The third point, that third rotten scenario, is the tension field I was talking about earlier. These are products that you actually hope will stop working at some point because the vulnerabilities that are used underneath are outdated and reported. That is all the policy that goes on outside this law and for which we have the entire National Cyber Security Centre for example. That's gonna stay. So you're actually using something, a vulnerability that you can't fix. You don't know, you won't find out. So whether you use it or not, there is. And remedying it is not affected by its use. And with all kinds of other methods, you try to close all the vulnerabilities in general anyway, which ultimately also doesn't work anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u264	Does the answer given by the Secretary of State mean that there is simply no solution to that problem in that third category?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u265	The answer is that the solution is not to make use of it. The solution must be achieved by other means. In general terms, it is our aim to remedy any vulnerability as quickly as possible. That's the other side of the policy. If we know that it is an unknown vulnerability, we must also make a very active contribution to reporting and remedying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u266	I propose that the Secretary of State continue with the amendment to item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u267	The amendment in part No. 15 by Mrs Tellegen and Mrs Van Toorenburg on the use of the virtual puber. There's a more beautiful word for that: the virtual child creation. This will make it more clear, in material terms, that there is a need and that this can be done, but it will not immediately remedy the criminal problems we have. I'd like to make that clear. The Tallon criterion and the entrapment problems remain. It is, however, a clearer expression of the need to use all the means to catch and catch these types of figures in all manner of ways within the limits laid down by the law, not coming into the field of entrapment. In the light of this, and with all due respect, I should like to make the assessment of the amendment to item No. 15 to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. Mr Verhoeven's 16 amendments provide for a horizontal clause whereby powers automatically lapse after five years. I think that the powers we are proposing here are very much needed for the future, not just for five years. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. The amendment in part No. Mrs Van Toorenburg's 17 intention is to reduce the eight-year prison sentence for offences to six years for the application of investigative acts. I would also advise against that amendment. I think that with this border, and with the possible addition via an AMvB, we have a good package. The use of these powers must be really heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u268	Mrs Van Tongeren, do you have a question concerning Amendment No 1? 16?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u269	It concerns both my amendment to item No. 10 as the amendment to item No. 10 as the amendment to item No. 10 as the amendment to item No. 10 as the amendment to item No. 10 as the amendment to item No. 10 as the amendment to item No. 10 as the amendment The Secretary of State has been arguing all evening that developments in the digital field are going very fast and that it is difficult to foresee them. Then I propose to evaluate after three years, but then it is said: no, that is far too soon, because then we have no idea how it works. My colleague proposes to use a horizontal clause after five years, who knows where the developments will be? Oh, and then I'm gonna take another good look. However, both amendments are not recommended by the Secretary of State. That is contrary to his earlier argument that we cannot regulate a lot of things now because we do not know how it is going to develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u270	You don't know how it develops, but you do know which way it goes. We won't be cyber-free in five years. There will then be no society in which such powers are not necessary. Suppose we say it will expire in five years' time if we do nothing, when we know it will only go that way, even if we don't know exactly how. I think that is contrary to what I have said about rapid developments and unforeseen developments, which go one way or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u271	Now the Secretary of State says he can see what is happening in the field of computer crime in five years' time and what international agreements are about known or unknown vulnerabilities. He also says that in the Netherlands this power is essential to combat crimes, but I have had no factual or numerical justification for the need for this law in his entire speech. So it keeps rattling on all sides. We need this, because we need it, and we need it because we need it; that's to and from the Secretary of State's reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u272	I may be in the middle, but I don't feel anything rattling. All kinds of people are trying to get movement in. I think it's very unrealistic to expect that in five years' time there won't be any automated works you should be able to get into for an effective search. I still don't know exactly what it's like, but I do know which way it's going. I was with the Van Toorenburg amendment to item No. 18, the purpose of which is to re-establish the decryption order. I would advise against that amendment. We didn't just take it out for nothing. I think it's hard to shape in a way that holds up legally. I'm not saying it's impossible, but it's complicated. I'm not convinced of the effectiveness either. You're actually saying to someone, if you don't give up what you know, you're going to jail anyway. Then you'll be punished, but that's always a lot lower than the punishment that's threatened. I am not convinced of its added value for several reasons. I would prefer the police themselves to find out what is to be found by other methods, so that it can also be charged to the person concerned. I come to the amendment to item No. 19 by Mrs Van Toorenburg. It would like to see a legal regime for the deletion of domain names, so that the prosecutor can make this inaccessible. I'm charmed by the idea of offering the district attorney that opportunity, as it can help victims of cybercrime. The amendment does take a path that is not easy. Retrieving a domain name is not the end of the story. It is then quite easy to reach through another provider. It then pops up in a slightly different form, so you run the risk that you will at some point lose more time in getting jumping domain names than in bringing criminal proceedings. I don't want to finish this. I want to see if we can come up with a more effective arrangement for domain name deletion. This requires further investigation and coordination with the prosecution and the case-law. In any case, I would like such an investigation to be carried out in the short term and to inform the Chamber accordingly. Depending on that work, let me take it up with the Court's judgement whether she wants to take it up now or whether she wants to wait until we know if we can do it effectively. In this way, I gave my opinion on the amendment to item No. 19. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr De Pasquale and others on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 20 provides for a limitation of the scope of the concept of "automated work." We have also had extensive debates on this issue. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. With his amendment to item No. 21 Mr Verhoeven wants to regulate the crimes in the law and not via an AMvB. We have discussed this in detail. I don't recommend the amendment. I can now answer Mr Recourt's question about the expertise of the court in The Hague. It's about the knowledge center. That can support all rc's in the country and answer questions. They also organise meetings to increase expertise, but it is not the case that only the judges in The Hague are entrusted with this competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u273	Then my concern is back. We have a lot of rc's all over the country. I do not think it is realistic to think that all the rc's in the Netherlands are also often rotating with that expertise agency in the background sufficiently equipped to really understand and make a good decision on these difficult technical matters. Is it possible to have discussions with the Council before the Court of Justice in order to see how it can be ensured that a rc's club really understands what is going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u274	That seems to me to be a sensible suggestion, and I admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u275	This brings us to the end of the first term. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u276	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his clear and detailed reply. I am grateful that he has made clear and clear why this law is so important and necessary. The Netherlands is at the forefront of digitalisation. This brings with it great economic and social opportunities, but cybercrime is an increasing threat. By 2020, 50% of total crime is digital in nature, so it is important to give the political powers needed to make a fist against this increasing form of crime, including the possibility to use vulnerabilities. Citizens should not only be able to count on the support of our police forces in the physical world, but also in the digital world. Everyone has today acknowledged and acknowledged the concern about increasing cybercrime. Perhaps it was Mr Verhoeven who did that most strikingly by mentioning a huge number of examples showing how often and how much we are being hacked. A beginning of an answer to those attacks and hacks is this law. I have two comments to make on the two amendments that I have tabled today. As regards the approach to child pornography and the use of a technical means of detection such as Sweetie, I welcome the response of the Secretary of State to the amendment I tabled today with the CDA. There should be no doubt about the legality of the use of the technical means of detection, such as Sweetie. I realise that there are still problems of entrapment in relation to the evidence collection and the Tallon criterion. The VVD will make another point of this when reviewing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Much has been said about the use of vulnerabilities. We want as few vulnerabilities as possible; we want to close them as much as possible. Let's get that straight. But sometimes it can be in the interest of an investigation that a vulnerability stays open longer and is not reported. The VVD believes that this should only be possible under strict conditions. At the front we build in a sturdy check with guarantees. Upon completion, the vulnerability shall be reported unless it is important to leave it open. Then we're gonna need another judge's test. The amendment tabled by Mr Recourt and myself provides for this. Cybercrime in our country is growing rapidly. The police are still empty-handed. The traditional detection methods fail on the Internet. That is why it is right that this law should allow the police to break into suspects' devices in the near future. This is very important, otherwise organised crime will be freed. This bill is the beginning of an adequate response to the challenge of the future, namely cybercrime. My group will therefore vote firmly in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u277	Apart from the fact that Mrs Tellegen has put zero questions to the Secretary of State during this whole debate, which I find really bizarre, I would like to know what she thinks of the discussion on the amendment she tabled with Mr Recourt. It seems very much that what Mrs Tellegen and Mr Recourt are trying to achieve, namely to reduce the level of non-reporting of vulnerabilities, can easily be bypassed by one of the three categories we have talked about here. I would like to hear from Mrs Tellegen how she feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u278	I'm just trying to unravel that discussion and also those three scenarios outlined. The VVD is in favour of using vulnerabilities under strict conditions. That's what I'm gonna stand for. But after they've been used, they need to be reported. If they are used again, the judge's commissioner will need a test. That is what Mr Recourt and I are trying to do. In parallel, there has been a discussion on trade in these vulnerabilities. The Secretary of State has clearly stated that this trade is not permitted, but that it is possible to purchase tools in which possibly unknown vulnerabilities are present. That's a fact. I can follow that line. What you don't know, you don't know. I do not see how the amendment tabled by Mr Recourt and I today stands in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u279	It's very simple. What you don't know, you don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u280	And so you can't report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u281	Exactly. And that seems to be fine with the VVD, because he doesn't think the whole report is so important. Mr Recourt seems to accept that he cannot arrange it in any other way, while the Secretary of State says that he has assumed in his entire speech that the amendment was already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u282	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u283	Isn't that some kind of triangle that makes us pretend to be all right with each other, when the opposite is the case? Isn't that dangerous? You can't make legislation like that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u284	The amendment I am proposing together with Mr Recourt is a very pure one. It's about vulnerabilities we know and want to use in an investigation. It wasn't in the law, but hopefully it'll come into the law that we'll only be okay with that if we take another judicial test. This will give us a greater guarantee of the use of these vulnerabilities in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u285	Mr. Chairman. I have to say that I opened the debate with a lot of critical questions, but I came out a little negative. I can't deny that. That the bill is necessary, what I hear the VVD say, I could have decided for myself. We've had hearings, we've had a technical briefing. That is without prejudice to the fact that you can criticize a bill. My group had that criticism and still has that criticism. The two most important points I would like to make are just a few more. Firstly, the external independent supervision requested. The Secretary of State says that this is not necessary, because the Public Prosecutor's Office makes an assessment that is being reviewed by the Judge Commissioner. But that is a review of the request to use the power, i.e. ex ante and not ex post. That is not a test of whether the power has been properly exercised. Were you sure the stakes were right? Not everything ends up landing in a nice file with the judge. It may also end with the conclusion that no prosecution is being carried out. Then there are holes. Then the power has been used that you can't know afterwards whether it all went well. Trust is good, but control is better, so my group is certainly not convinced on this point. The most important point is the restriction to the most serious crimes that my group has asked for. The Secretary of State says that these are crimes of eight years or more and crimes identified by AMvB. There will then be a suspension procedure, on which the Chamber will have influence. My group has doubts as to whether such a suspension procedure provides sufficient safety net for such a wide range of powers. It doesn't make any sense either, because it's also about crimes that have four years or more on them. Then it is not about copying data, but you are allowed to enter the automated work. Again, I said in my extensive first term that there is a tension field. My group is aware that the police need these powers. My group would also like to take part in this. We have always done so, but we cannot be blind to the real legitimate fears that exist. My group is not convinced today. I'm very sorry about that. I can count: in the Lower House this bill will certainly make it. I'm going to discuss it with my group. The first parliamentary group of the PVV is, of course, about its own contribution, but I can imagine that a lot of critical notes will be cracked there. Maybe the Secretary of State would like to take that with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u286	Mr. Chairman. I found this a particularly unsatisfactory debate, especially because it concerns rather fundamental human rights such as the right to privacy and the right to an unwatched life. In almost every little debate we had on a specific subject, we were told: that is usually good; the police also usually have good intentions; developments are going so fast, we cannot fully prepare for that, and international law is focused on the principle of territory and the Internet does not stick to it, but we still have to do something. I find this incredibly weak and vulnerable for a self-respecting country that is technologically advanced. I wasn't so excited about this bill, but I have to say that I've gradually become less and less enthusiastic. I will therefore advise my group in this direction. I have repeatedly asked the Secretary of State how much of this extremely dangerous crime we are going to solve in this way. There's no answer to that. Even a very simple amendment that calls for an evaluation after three years, not after twelve months or after two years, but only after three years, the Secretary of State cannot even get a "judge chamber," whereas these kinds of assessments are very often accepted in legal proceedings when there are so many questions and when there is so much resistance from the Chamber. The Secretary of State already knows that we apparently need this law in this form for five years. I don't understand it so well. I assume the Secretary of State thinks: I have a majority, I have adopted an amendment from the VVD and the PvdA, I will get there. I do not understand why it would be so urgent that this unbearable bill should now be rushed through the Chamber in this form. A small point of mine was the explanatory statement, in which there is a sentence in which the Secretary of State himself says it is nonsense. Is it really necessary to coat this with steam and boiling water just before Christmas? You're hoping the First Chamber will take a little more time and think more deeply, because I wasn't served by the Secretary of State with any support. Is this really gonna stop some serious crime? Is there enough checks-and-balances in there? With that whole story about the AMvB, we can easily get on the sloping plane. Why do you have to put all that in there? Why is this necessary? Is there really a lot more serious crime in Germany that could be detected if we had this legislation? All these questions are not answered and the whole story of trafficking in unknown vulnerabilities is also vague. On the one hand we say that it is not allowed and on the other we make full use of it. I have not had any answers to the question of what kind of budgets do we make available to encourage the question in an already shady trade. I still have the same questions that I had to deal with in the first period and which have already been put in the written round. I didn't get any answers. I would very much like to hear from the State Secretary a review of his assessment of my evaluation amendment. What's the harm in looking at a law like this after three years? Then I will end my contribution in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u287	Mr. Chairman. Those 25 minutes I have left, I will not need all of them anymore. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State. I am, however, shocked by the response and the way in which it has taken place. I am sorry to have to say it, but I sincerely believe that this law is still raging on all sides. The concerns about a number of issues which really, seriously need to be considered and which have also been seriously considered in the debate have not been adequately or at all taken away by the Secretary of State. The worst part was that, in some respects, he didn't even intend to take it away. He said: there are many other scenarios in which the points made by Mr Verhoeven, Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Gesthuizen are not even discussed. As if you had to pass a law at about 80%; the law is 80% good, so we'll just have to stop talking about it, then it's okay. I believe that, as a representative of the people, I have a duty to look also at some very dangerous developments which may arise from this law. The Secretary of State has said that I pretend correlation is a causality, but I do think that this law carries a number of causalities that could make the Internet unsafe. I should like to say a few words about this. Let me put it in the language of this debate. We have talked about unknown vulnerabilities all the time today. In fact, I believe that the treatment and response of the Secretary of State also revealed a number of unknown vulnerabilities in this law. I'm really worried about that, too. The PVV says our feeling hasn't improved. Unfortunately, that also applies to me: my feeling has not improved. For example, the Secretary of State says that the police are going to make the Internet safer. At the same time, he just goes into the black market with hacking software. He says: I don't know what I'm buying, so it's okay. In doing so, he also bypasses the amendment of the VVD and the Labour Party, which seems to have the intention of reporting vulnerabilities more quickly. The Secretary of State says that hacking is a but very exceptional competence and will not be used as much and not so often. Simply purchasing hack software, no matter how often or how little you use it, is enough to give a new stimulus to a black market in vulnerabilities. That's just supply and demand. The Secretary of State is ignoring that. The Secretary of State says we're not gonna hack a pacemaker or a car. I'd take his word for it on his blue eyes, but it's nowhere in the law. The Secretary of State says this law is only for serious crimes. He may, however, make a list of crimes himself, without the Chamber having anything to say about it. Moreover, I have tabled amendments on all these points. I'm glad there was no one at the interrupting microphone tonight to ask, what do you want? At least I made that clear. I would have liked to see all these points differently. The Secretary of State also says: we don't know where the automated work is, so we'd better just hack into it. That is also the reasoning that seems to be going on in the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is how I read it in the note on the report. In short, a lot of things in this law are just not well thought out yet. It is a very shaky law, with a serious risk of making people more unsafe. I started the debate by expressing the fear that we would make a big mistake, and I am unfortunately confirmed in that, also by the reply of the Secretary of State. I regret that the VVD and the CDA do not want to address the fundamental dilemma of the use of vulnerabilities, the opening up of vulnerabilities and the promotion of the market in vulnerabilities. The tactic seems to be: we pretend the problem isn't there, then we'll get through the evening. They have not done any interruption on this point, but it is a matter of substance. I'm worried about that. I am very happy to be surprised, and I even got questions about it on Twitter, with the highly documented, nuanced and informed contribution of the PVV and the contributions of Mrs Gesthuizen, Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Recourt, who did want to raise a number of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u288	I very much welcome the fact that at least there are a number of parties where there has been a desire to reflect on the possible consequences of this bill. These consequences are not minor. At least they don't have to be small. I am sorry that the Labour Party is letting it run away now, I say to Mr Recourt. I will ask him that in his term. I feel like he's got it in his stomach, too, but somehow he doesn't want to bite through at the point where it might go wrong. I hope he's about to prove that the opposite is true. Yes, there are vulnerabilities in the automated systems now. We should close it to increase people's safety. If the government is going to keep these vulnerabilities open or, worse still, stimulate the market in vulnerabilities, it will make the situation more unsafe for people. And the Secretary of State has simply admitted that the government is going to stimulate the market in vulnerabilities. Of course, that hack software uses zero-days. Let's not be naive about that. Let us not have the illusion that this might not be so bad. That denying or saying you don't know is basically just folly trickery. If the Secretary of State does that, he's still performing a play where he's dumber than he is. I know the Secretary of State is intelligent enough to know what he's getting into. That's why I feel like he's acting a little like his nose is bleeding, pretending he can't see it all over and using it as some kind of strategy. You can just ask companies like HackingTeam: gosh, does this software actually use unknown vulnerabilities? You can just ask those companies. If the answer is yes, you don't buy the software. If the answer is "we don't know for sure," you don't buy it either. If the answer is "no," you buy it. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether, in his view, it makes sense to buy software with known, already dense vulnerabilities. I would like an answer from the Secretary of State to that question. Does that make sense? If the answer is "no," then the Secretary of State admits that he is going to buy software with unknown vulnerabilities, and thus bypasses the amendment of the Labour Party and the VVD. My point is that you can also ask the company and the market on which you enter for product information. We have placed it as a market with different products. Then let the government ask what kind of product she buys. Don't let the government pretend you can't know and that's why it's good. From the company HackingTeam just came out like a kind of digital piñata a rain on zero-days. The company's been hacked, folks. Let's not forget that. The company's been hacked. What did that hack show? Turns out the company all had or had unknown vulnerabilities. Of course, this kind of software uses zero-days. Let's just be honest about that, too. It is also a form of a kind of cognitive dissonance that the Secretary of State exhibits here. On the one hand, we encourage the reporting of vulnerabilities to the government. That's what the government pays for. The public authorities therefore have an interest in closing vulnerabilities. On the other hand, the government encourages the market in vulnerabilities by buying this type of hack software. In that market, these vulnerabilities are likely to be paid even better than the government does. This is a really strange combination. It's unbelievable. And it is also naive to say: the Dutch government is so small that this has hardly any influence on that market. That's what the Secretary of State said. Then it would be much better to just tackle this market in vulnerabilities, I ask the Secretary of State. The whole discussion about reporting vulnerabilities is useless anyway. The police are going to buy hacking software and have no idea which zero-days are used. There are no hackers for the police looking for new vulnerabilities. That's just a frame. That is the problem with today's debate on this bill. I say again: I started constructively here today, but I hear a lot of frames. I hear a lot of incantations. I hear a lot of formulas. I hear a lot of cosmetics. I hear a lot of words. I hear a lot of comforting words. But I don't hear facts. I see the Secretary of State laughing now. Yeah, I'd laugh too if it wasn't so sad. I didn't hear any facts. Nor have I heard the Secretary of State rule out any of the scenarios that I have said I am genuinely concerned about. What does the Secretary of State say? Yes, Mr Verhoeven comes up with all doom scenarios and I cannot rule them out. I therefore believe that adopting a law on this point is dangerous. I have tried to take a good look at this because in the past we have often seen the sliding scale and the stretching of possibilities, and it has happened often enough in the past that a law was later applied differently than was originally intended. I think we should watch for that. In short, we have here a legislative proposal that stimulates the market in vulnerabilities and thus makes the situation unsafe for people, as I feared. Every time the Secretary of State was shaking no, he would have been better off nodding yes. And he has also simply admitted that the concerns raised by D66 are indeed real and that other scenarios are also possible. This law is going to make people's situation more unsafe. This law is going to create more hacks and more vulnerabilities. This law is going to make for more child pornography. This law is going to provide more leaked business secrets. There will be more hacks based on more vulnerabilities. With this law, the cabinet worsens the cyberthreat for which it itself warns in the budget. The consideration we need to make here today is that any party that has to make for itself is: do you think the search is more important and do you accept more cybercrime, or do you want to reduce cybercrime and accept a little less detection powers? That's the question. As the VVD said, these investigative powers may be used in 10% of cases and in even less percent of cases will be decisive. It's a difficult trade-off, I admit, but it's a trade-off we have to make. I get the feeling that CDA and VVD didn't want to make this decision at all tonight. I am pleased that today at least it has become clear that hopefully there is a majority with the PvdA and the PVV that does not want any hacking software purchased and does not want the government to take on the black market for vulnerabilities. That's profit. That is why I have tabled a motion on this matter. I conclude with the words that the Senate's treatment could indeed lead to all sorts of new problems for the cabinet, because there are a number of issues that are open to the attention and interest of the Senate. Of course, Mrs Helder is right about that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for search services to enter the market of unknown vulnerabilities or the market of hacking software that uses unknown vulnerabilities;]] [[Whereas investigation services may check with the software creator or use unknown vulnerabilities when purchasing hack software;]] [[calls on the government not to buy in any hacking software that the government knows is using unknown vulnerabilities or of which the government is not sure whether the software uses unknown vulnerabilities;]] [[further requests the Government not to purchase any unknown vulnerabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34372-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u289	I didn't see five hands to support the filing!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u290	Certainly, because Mr Recourt also raised his hand in the back. I've counted!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u291	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply, but on a number of points I really disagree with him. We've had a spicy debate, and that's always nice. Nevertheless, I find the outcome very sad. I agree with what Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Van Tongeren have just said. I have entered the debate fairly openly and I would have liked to advise my group next Tuesday: boys, the bill has risks and also a dark side, but we should not want to have some sort of refuge where criminals can go unhindered; there are enough checks-and-balances and guarantees, so we have to go along with the computer crime bill III. But I am not going to do that for the time being, unless the Secretary of State is going to respond in a very different way to the questions I would like to put to him in the second term. As I said in the first term, as a representative of the people, I find it far from desirable that, in the case of a legislative proposal granting such far-reaching powers, matters can be dealt with through an AMvB. I can only agree with the list that the Secretary of State mentioned earlier, but that list is of course far from exhaustive. Eventually, there could be a lot more to it. That would go with an AMvB without a veil. I understand the Secretary of State says we might be in a hurry. I would ask him to reconsider this and to see that, if it is a hurry, the Chamber will really understand it and deal with matters quickly. I think I have asked very literally about the very likely possibility that the Netherlands will, of course, also invade systems that run on servers that are not on Dutch territory. What does the Secretary of State think about possible conflicts with authorities from other countries? I asked him how countries such as the US, China, Russia, Iran and Germany, Belgium and other EU countries have now responded to the Dutch proposal. I would like another response to that. The PvdA stated very clearly in the first term: as far as we are concerned, no trade in zero-days, in unknown vulnerabilities. I'm very happy about that. The Secretary of State does not exclude, according to scenario 3, as I call it, the people who have followed the debate will know what I mean by that: the unknown unfamiliar vulnerabilities that we are going to buy software in which they are in. It seems to me very likely that this will indeed happen. In the meantime, the notification obligation after four weeks is also not laid down by law. I just don't like that. So I can't say yes to that either. Perhaps in the second term the Secretary of State can make an ultimate attempt to solve that problem, but I fear, if I take his answers to my questions of interruption, that he will not do so. I have also asked for this, and I will leave it to the Council of State, which calls for system monitoring, to be taken into account. At the moment, the ex post inspection supervises it, so I have understood it only if the order has already been carried out. The Council of State calls for system monitoring to be carried out in a structured manner to ensure that the investigative powers are properly exercised. A supervisory body should have access to individual files in order to assess necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. I didn't hear the Secretary of State respond to that criticism. That's what I'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u292	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. They have been satisfactory on a number of points. For example, he said that the system supervisor has access to the individual files, to name but a few. The obligation to report has been dealt with by Mrs Tellegen and myself. It is stated in the first sentence, although it is expressed negatively: you can deviate from the obligation to report if you get permission from the judge-supervisor. Thus there is a legal obligation to report. I also hear that the accumulation of infringements runs from not far-reaching to as far-reaching as possible. That's also good; it's an ultimum remedium. But there's still one bone in the throat. That bone won't come out either, but I'm not gonna fix it tonight. The Secretary of State said it was about the unknown weaknesses. He said, "If we have knowledge of this, we will not buy it; if we have any knowledge of unknown weaknesses, we will report it." That's good. Then there is one residual category, namely: we buy software packages that can contain them and then we don't know. I've been thinking, how do we get out of that? I don't really have the solution. My solution was first of all that we should not buy those packages and start looking for those unknown weaknesses ourselves. I understand that's not an option. That is why I shall table the next motion, which I shall limit as much as possible. After that, I await the interruptions of my fellow Members. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the present legislative proposal allows investigative authorities to make use of vulnerabilities in automated works;]] [[considers that the government should promote the safety and integrity of automated works, such as by promoting responsible disclosure and by encouraging third parties to seek vulnerabilities at the invitation of soft or hardware manufacturers;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that investigation bodies use unknown vulnerabilities or software that uses them only in extreme cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34372-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u293	This does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, that I am not going to bite on something that I was beginning to nibble on, namely that we are never going to take advantage of these commercial companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u294	I'm sure that raises a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u295	That's why I'm standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u296	At least I think it's very fair. I think that is the beginning of my appreciation of the contribution of the Labour Party. In any case, it admits that it wants to make use of unknown vulnerabilities in the extreme. In any case, this has made it clear. I have no further questions about that either. I will not ask any more questions to Mr Recourt either. I now know where the Labour Party stands, and it is to the credit of Mr Recourt that he simply said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u297	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I note that the Secretary of State can respond immediately in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u298	Mr. Chairman. I'll start in order. Mrs Helder said that there is no post-control. It is, of course, right that in the event that the case does not go to a court for dealing with the substantive matter, it is not taken for granted. The inspection may then fulfil that role. It then supervises the system, can conduct independent judgements and periodically review them under the Police Act. In my view, therefore, there is system supervision and ex post supervision. In cases where it is not done by a judge, it may be done by the inspection. Mrs Gesthuizen asked how wide the inspection would look and how she could monitor systems. For this purpose, the inspection also looks at the execution of the officer's order and the authorisation of the judge-supervisor: has everything gone according to the rules, have the legal regulations been complied with? It can make periodic reports. I think it would be a good idea to share it with the Chamber, so that she too can see that system supervision works and what that results in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u299	If I have understood correctly, the supervision is arranged in advance and afterwards. I do not think that this does justice to the call made by various parties who have said that they want to supervise during the journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u300	During the ride, the judge's commissioner supervises. I think there's a whole variety of surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u301	The judge's commissioner gives permission, and then the BOLO gets four weeks, right? I don't really see what that surveillance is all about during the ride.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u302	In exercising the power, there is logging. Through the logs, the judge's commissioner will be able to see how it went. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about the evaluation. I do not want to say that I find it strange to evaluate after three years. I only think that such an evaluation in many respects makes the well-known sense that 'there is not enough practical experience to be able to say something about this'. So I think it's less effective to do it after three years instead of just after five years. Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Gesthuizen have asked to send the AMvB to the Chamber. I have already said something about the pending procedure, which is very formal. However, I would like to promise that I will send the proposed AMvB to the Chamber before the law enters into force, so that it can discuss it in an AO or another debate if it so wishes. Perhaps that is the way in which the Chamber can be involved in material matters with the AMvB, in which the other offences in which these powers are possible are also noted. Mrs Gesthuizen asked another question about possible conflicts with other countries. Of the countries mentioned by Mrs Gesthuizen, we have no reaction; they have not responded. I do not foresee conflicts either, because if we know where the automated work is, we will proceed to a legal aid request. Mr Verhoeven had another question about... I thought it was a fair debate for a long time, but at the end I thought a few things were flying a bit. I didn't say there are no unknown vulnerabilities in it when you buy software from a company like that. Otherwise, I wouldn't have had to go into that for days. Mr Verhoeven said at some point that it is always the case, but I only said that it may also be that you buy software and his question was whether it makes sense to do so based on known vulnerabilities. That's possible, because a lot of people are too bad at updating. In that sense, you can. I also told Mr Verhoeven in my first term that if you buy these products, there is a good chance that you will simply have to assume that you are dealing with unknown vulnerabilities, which you do not know what they are. There should be no misunderstanding about that. There's no hide-and-seek. But it is also possible to buy products that use known vulnerabilities, even if they already have a patch from the supplier, because in practice we unfortunately see that a lot of people do not patch and update badly. In this sense, this is, of course, always a dual part of the policy. Through the bill we are discussing, we are using it to get in, when we do not really want those vulnerabilities to exist in other areas of our policy where we invest a lot. Those two things go together. Quite harshly said: hopefully we will be so effective in combating vulnerabilities that the space to make use of them and to buy them will be reduced. I don't think there's a risk. I couldn't say how this bill would lead to more child pornography. That's a little... Well, okay. I'll get on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u303	Before you give your opinion on the motions, Mr Verhoeven would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u304	I said that because everyone here who is in favour of this law says all the time: we are going to tackle terrorism, child pornography and cybercrime. That's what's in everything all the time. I have made a serious effort to underpin my concern that it would be counterproductive and that it could work the other way around, because those vulnerabilities are there. I made that very clear. If everyone then pretends that that is a silly dilemma or a far-fetched scenario, then I think I have every right to say that I fear that will happen, that we should prevent it, and that is why my concern about this law has increased rather than decreased. That's what I meant. Everyone here claims that this law is good for tackling crime, but my point is that this law may make certain forms of crime more likely, because those vulnerabilities are simply no longer closed. That was my reasoning and the essence of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u305	In my view, no one has denied that dilemma and no one has rubbed it on Mr Verhoeven the other way round, with some unsubstantiated statement in the vein of 'if you do not support this, then there will be more child pornography'. I think that's a little weird back-and-forth discussion. I think that is a strange way of arguing when you have a careful debate here about the content and the consideration. I've said before that this vulnerability is not gonna be closed in my eyes before if you don't have that law. It's not like the police are going to create vulnerabilities or the police are going to collect vulnerabilities to avoid reporting them. None of that is at issue, so without that law, unfortunately, there is also that vulnerability. We have all kinds of other measures and policies to find and close that vulnerability as quickly as possible. That's gonna stay. We're not gonna take anything away from that. This law allows the police to use these powers to go after a terrorist, another serious criminal or a cyber criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u306	The reason why I reacted so harshly is that it has literally been rubbed on me in various debates that if I were not for these powers and not for this law, I would be partly guilty of terrorist attacks. That has literally been rubbed on me by several colleagues. That is the way in which this debate has taken place here. If you were against this law, you were for criminals, for terrorists, for child pornography. I think this is a careless law. I understand the intention and the good intentions behind it, I trust the Secretary of State and I trust the police, but I don't trust all those criminals who are much smarter than our officials and who will be able to exploit all those vulnerabilities. That's my only point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u307	Criminals can exploit vulnerabilities without this law. I understand that Mr Verhoeven has been harassed, because I reacted about a moment ago when he made a similar accusation against me. So at the end of this evening we are still in agreement on something, namely that these may not be the most effective arguments for using them over and over again. The motion in part No. 22 by Mr Verhoeven is aimed at the non-buying of unknown vulnerabilities. That is what we differ on the last part. I agree with Mr Verhoeven that we should not be buying zero-days in that capacity, but I think that we should be able to use systems that contain unknown vulnerabilities, and we also do not know which ones are zero-days that help us, and at the same time we should do our best to close and remedy those vulnerabilities along other roads. So I'm deceiving that motion. What the motion in part No. 23 by Mr Recourt: I agree with him that we should encourage the reporting of vulnerabilities. That's the tension field I indicated earlier. I would also prefer that we use methods or known vulnerabilities other than these vulnerabilities, because if we discover an unknown vulnerability but can also enter through a known vulnerability, I think it would be wise to use the known vulnerability to get inside and report the unknown immediately. So I leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-26.u308	The vote on the legislative proposal and on the amendments and motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his presence and contribution to this debate. The same applies, of course, to Members of Parliament. I thank the people in the public gallery and those who have followed the debate in a different way for their interest and I thank all the support.
