ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the initiator, Mrs Schouten, and the Minister for Housing and National Service to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an initiative proposal that will sound sympathetic to everyone. It aims to make the housing market more accessible to young people. It allows temporary rental contracts for young people by making some changes to Book 7 of the Civil Code. By encouraging young people to move after a few years, efforts are being made to promote the flow. The possibilities of the landlord to cancel a rental contract due to urgent personal use are supplemented. It will also be possible to terminate a rental contract on that ground which has been concluded with a young person of up to 28 years of age for a maximum of five to seven years. The lack of progress on the social rental market in particular has been a problem for years. Nor does it seem that in the coming years there will be an end to the scarcity; the opposite is the case. What happens, I ask the petitioner and the minister, after such a youth contract has been concluded, if the young person has to come out and cannot find another home? After all, also middle-priced rentals are extremely scarce and a property for sale will not be feasible for everyone. It is not inconceivable that the young person at the end of his contract with his five-to-seven-year registration period does not yet have the chance to move into another social housing, because in many regions such a registration period is far from sufficient. Don't this law just push the problem? I would like an answer from the author and the Minister. The fact that students and other young start-ups in the housing market are incredibly difficult in the Netherlands will be known to almost everyone. Almost everyone will agree that measures need to be taken to improve accessibility and the flow of these groups. The PVV Group is also in favour of laws that can help young people to get decent housing faster. Mind you, our youngsters. There is the major problem that my group has with this initiative proposal. The age group eligible for these youth contracts is up to 28 years old. More than 60% of all asylum seekers in the Netherlands are in the same age category. At the moment there are about 28,000. Witness the images that we can see on television every night, hundreds of thousands more are on the way. A substantial part of them will receive a residence permit in the Netherlands. Moreover, we must not forget that there are already more than 16,000 status holders, for whom people are urgently looking for a home because they occupy a place in an asylum-seekers' centre. During the treatment in the Lower House, the initiator said that this law will not solve a housing shortage but will help to distribute the scarcity more fairly. It has also made it very clear that status holders, when they meet the conditions of this law; i.e. when they fall into the age category, can also benefit from this scheme. The legislative proposal, the initiator said, does not distinguish on the basis of background. The interpretation of the concept of "fair distribution" does not correspond to what my party understands, and then I express myself very neatly. The conclusion is as sad as it is clear: young people who hope that the introduction of this law will give them a better chance of housing are deceived, because in practice, status holders in particular will benefit from this scheme. And so Merel and Joost will have to stay with their parents Henk and Ingrid for the time being. The sadness industry is above all else here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u3	To increase the joy of celebration, I am speaking on behalf of the CDA Group. Mr. Chairman. This autumn an overview was published of the average waiting period for a normal social rental house in different municipalities. Anyone who wants to leave the parental home to stand on their own two feet will lose their courage. A seven-year waiting period is no exception. Therefore, especially for young people who are not eligible for campus contracts, entry into the housing market is complicated. I congratulate the initiator of this bill and all those who have supported it very much on their commitment to young house seekers. The young people of Perspectief, the youth organisation of the Christian Union, must not remain unnamed. I understand they're in this house. I am not giving that compliment because I expect this bill to bring about drastic changes in waiting times. For that, more needs to be built. However, this legislative proposal ensures a better distribution of the scarcity. It also promotes the flow. With the introduction of the instrument temporary rent for young people, the knife cuts on both sides. This measure is good for the availability of homes for young people and reduces the risk of skewing, an important issue inherent in having a large social rental sector. At the same time, this initiative proposal is, of course, just a drop on the glowing housing market plate. Moreover, the pretence of the proposal is no greater than that. The initiator is very real about this: it is shuffling in scarcity. This scarcity is by definition embedded in a system of maximum rents and rent allowances and has been further aggravated by the economic crisis of recent years. On the one hand, the target group has grown. On the other hand, housing production, especially of social housing, has exploded. So the first solution is to build, build, build, and then build smartly, both technically and in terms of segment. Especially at this time of flexibilisation, increasing temporary contracts and zzp'ers, the number of affordable rentals in the free sector will also have to increase. My group and that of the CDA note that there has been some movement in the construction of these houses, but the pace is still far from high enough. Would the advisor of the Chamber like to go into this in more detail? The fraction of the Christian Union considers rent protection to be a great asset. That is precisely why a fixed contract is the norm. We will also discuss this in the discussion of the proposal put forward by the Minister. However, for this particular group, which finds a spot in the smallest and cheapest segment of the housing, the applicant has made it plausible that, due to changes in living conditions, it often already looks like another dwelling within the five to seven-year period, often in another segment of the housing market. Moreover, the registration time for a social rental house continues. That is an important addition. My question is how the petitioner looks at municipalities in which the average registration time for a home exceeds the maximum time of the youth contract. Does she know whether, for example, the VNG is preparing these municipalities to prevent a new form of housing shortage in five years' time? What role does the Minister see for himself? I note that over the years the definition of 'urgent own use' has been interpreted more and more widely. In view of the current legal system and the case law already in place, it is conceivable that the youth contract should be hung below. The same applies to the campus contract. I am curious how the petitioner himself looks at this extension of the Civil Code and whether alternatives have been considered. My group will certainly raise this point when it comes to dealing with the Rental Market Act, which is already pending in this House. The concept of "urgent self-use" has gradually become a house with all kinds of attachments. We think it would be a good idea to keep that under review. The question remains: how is this bill going to get hands and feet in practice? Are municipalities committed to this in performance agreements with housing corporations or are they themselves involved? Are there any preparations yet? I'm curious. The groups of the CDA and the Christian Union wholeheartedly support the thrust of this bill. If there's one group of house seekers who find a hard spot, I think it's the kids. That is why it is a good thing that a legislative proposal is now before us to give a little push in the right direction. It's also a sober bill. The housing market will still suffer from waiting times and from crooked residents. More is needed to solve this problem, but today on this first meeting of the First Chamber in the spring there is a new legislative sound for young people. I hope that will help more young people find a place in our social housing market. I look forward with interest to the reply of the author and, of course, to that of our advisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to pay tribute to Mrs Schouten and congratulate her. I appreciate her initiative and the great work she has done on it. I congratulate her on the result she has achieved so far. As far as the VVD is concerned, she is also reaching the finish line today. The explanatory statement begins with a clear problem statement. There are not enough social housing for young people and young people have less chances of getting a home like this. They have not yet built up a length of residence and little waiting time, so they have little chance through the waiting lists. They usually have too little salary to rent or buy in the free sector. However, they may qualify for a specific youth home, but if they accept it, they will lose their waiting time for a normal regulated home. The VVD supports this problem. The bill wants to do something about this through the youth contract, through temporary rental of youth homes for five years. As a result, it will not be built directly, but the scarcity will be better distributed because the temporary rent ensures a faster flow. Now a young person can stay in a youth home for a relatively long time. Soon, thanks to the temporary rent for five years, more young people will be able to benefit from that same house. We also expect temporary rental potential landlords to cross the line to rent out to young people. Perhaps the temporary contracts will make this sector so much more interesting that landlords will also invest more. Certainly it is not and numbers are difficult to give, but it is a fine proposal that deserves a chance. What is the difference between the youth contract and the normal regulated contracts? The term is five years. The subsequent tenant must also be a younger one. The landlord is not obliged to provide suitable alternatives upon termination of the rental. The registration on the waiting list continues. So the younger one is not lagging behind. In distressing cases, an extension of two years is possible. The VVD finds these resources effective to achieve the goal. At the same time, my group is wondering whether the young person has sufficient protection. What are the possibilities when the contract expires? First of all, the younger has five years to look forward to something new. A judicial review shall take place in the event of termination. If necessary, he may rely on local emergency arrangements. Many young people get a job and a salary after their studies. They also have opportunities to rent or buy in the free sector. Is this protection sufficient? Some say, "No, it is not enough." In many cities the waiting period is longer than five years. There is far too little supply in the free sector. Moreover, rents in the free sector are too high. In addition, buying is made very difficult. The fraction of the VVD contrasts that the youngster can also live in another municipality. That means travelling, but that does not seem insurmountable to us. The government promotes the provision of services in the free sector with various measures: the separation of SGEIs and non-DAEBs, the freezing of the liberalisation limit, an appeal to municipalities to sell land and agreements on rental ceilings. The latest measure is the Blokbox. It's so new that I don't know exactly what it means yet. Many young people successfully end their studies. They get a job and a salary. In addition, they often also have a relationship and become two-earers. My group believes that, of course, this has not solved all the problems, but it offers good opportunities to many more young people than hitherto. We must bear in mind that the comparison is not: a youth contract or a normal contract. After all, there are no more houses. The comparison is: a youth contract or no contract. I prefer two residents each for five years than one resident for ten years in a youth home. There has been no written questioning during the preparation of this bill. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to put two questions to the author. It concerns the judicial review in the event of termination and the actual evacuation. First of all, the judicial test. Book 7 of the Civil Code lays down rules for the termination of the lease, for example in Articles 271, 273, 274 and as far as we are concerned Article 274a is added. In applying these rules, mistakes can be made: formal errors, delays, misaddressing. Because we've made the lease pretty complicated. An administrative error may prevent the rent from being properly cancelled. In these cases, a contract would automatically be created for an indefinite period of time. At least that is how I understand the last paragraph on page 8 of the explanatory memorandum. Is that view correct? My group also raises the question as to whether this automatic conversion into a contract is not too severe a sanction for an indefinite period of time. After all, the tenant, who no longer belongs to the target group, can continue to live. This means that this property will be withdrawn from the target group for years. Nor does the sanction seem effective to us because it does not affect the landlord, but the young person who would have become the successor tenant. He and his successors must wait longer. Why did the applicant choose this automatic consequence of an indefinite extension? Why has it not opted for another sanction that still allows for the correction of formal errors? It does not seem to the VVD Group that on termination of the lease the tenant does not cooperate in voluntary evacuation of the property. The house cannot then be made available to the subsequent young person. Young people do not always behave as the legislator likes. Are the legal possibilities sufficient to change this situation? Will those possibilities also be used? Or should we take into account that the practice is more uncomfortable? All in all, we are assessing this bill positively. We are curious about the answer to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Schouten on her initiative. It aims to help young people move into a home by increasing the number of homes specifically intended for them and by ensuring that young people move into another home within five years, so that the youth home becomes available to a new young person. At first sight, the legislative proposal seems to be a solution to a major problem, namely that there are no opportunities for start-ups in large parts of our country to obtain an affordable independent home, which forced them to stay in the parental home or go into sub-contracting somewhere, with all the abuses that often come with it. However, the SP Group has serious reservations about the proposal to create temporary leases for young people for five years. We attach great importance to the rental contract for an indefinite period of time and want to avoid tenants becoming nomads with temporary rental contracts wandering from home to home. Fortunately, the initiator of the bill agrees with us and has tried to avoid this danger with careful design of this form of temporary rental. Unfortunately, we do not think she has succeeded adequately in doing so. In those parts of the country where the waiting times for a social rental house are very long, sometimes for more than ten years, the hiring young person is on the street after the end of his youth contract. If the younger person is still dependent on a social housing, then it is not yet his turn to do so. As a living nomad, he can go back to the parental home, go somewhere under hire, or, if all this doesn't work, find the homeless shelter. This also applies to young people who now have a reasonable income and should move on to the free sector. In a number of large cities they can't get an affordable rental or purchase house for them, because that kind of housing simply isn't there. I am talking about the current situation, but I have little hope that this problem will be resolved within five years. I will not make this example worse by talking about a young person who has had a child and cannot find a new home after the conclusion of the youth contract. However, I would like to ask Mrs Schouten how she looks at the danger I have outlined that young people may become living nomads after the end of their temporary lease. Our second reflection concerns the question of whether and, if so, how the bill will increase the number of rental homes for young people. If more relatively small, simple and therefore affordable homes are to be built for young people, I think that is absolutely positive, but I doubt whether this law will lead to that. That private landlords are going to offer more homes with a youth contract, I doubt even more. I understand that the initiator of this bill also has little expectation on this point, reading the Acts of the House of Representatives. It remains that the approved institutions, in consultation with municipalities, provide more social housing with the "youth house" label, which will become available to new young people as a result of the legislative proposal. This can be promoted by this new law. On the one hand, this would be positive in itself, but on the other hand, the number of ordinary social housing units is decreasing. After all, a social rental house that you label as a "youth home," you withdraw from the list of social homes that are available to other house seekers. In many municipalities with a very tight housing market, it will mean that many start-ups will not be able to obtain a youth home, because all these homes will be filled and waiting lists will be created in no time. These young people must then wait for a normal social home, but there are fewer of them. That's what's causing them to wait. We ask the initiator to respond to this problem as well and await her response to our questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u6	Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the applicant on behalf of the SGP for this initiative legislative proposal. With this proposal, it has shown not only that it is capable of making good and useful legislation, but also that it has a heart for young people. After all, the proposal aims to create opportunities for young people to have more opportunities to get a rental house quickly and temporarily. It is striking that the author of the bill approaches the issue fairly: this bill does not solve the housing shortage, but only wants to distribute the scarcity better. Additional advantage is that it stimulates the flow. The system is that young people are given the opportunity to conclude a youth contract for a certain period of time while maintaining the length of registration for a social housing. However, this raises a number of questions for the SGP group. In fact, if a 27-year-old is going to rent on the basis of a youth contract, that can still apply for five years. So until you're 32 years old, you could be covered by a youth contract. It is then still possible to obtain an extension of two years. In fact, this means that youth housing may be occupied by people who are in their mid-30s, i.e. 34 or almost 34 years. Let's take a simple example. If I were here in the Chamber to ask if anyone is nearly 34 years old, I would know a colleague who meets that criterion: Mrs Bikker. I think she has already built up a whole work history and is already a senator in the Upper House. Isn't that someone who should still be eligible for a rental for a younger person? In short: doesn't it shoot a bit at the top, with the older youngsters? How does the initiator view this and what does the consultant, Minister Blok, think of this case? I do not mean the case of Mrs Schoutens' colleague, Mrs Bikker, but the case of the older youngster using this route. Something's coming up. We are talking about a group that must have opportunities for ordinary housing rental, including in the social sector. If a person has registered as a seeker of residence at the age of 18, he shall take a place on that list of persons seeking residence for a period of 14, 16 or 17 years. That's kind of long, I think. Furthermore, legislation that will soon be dealt with in conjunction with this legislative proposal is mainly aimed at preventing or addressing distortions of housing. This initiative proposal allows people aged between 18 and 34 to benefit from the youth contract, including renewal. In doing so, we can assume that there is a large group in there that is now making enough money to live elsewhere if there are houses available. Isn't there a chance that within this group there will be a new form of skewed housing? How are we gonna prevent that? Or is it provided for in the coherent legislation? I would like to receive a response, both from the applicant and from the minister. It is very good that extra space has been created at the bottom, in other words for the real young people, by the Bishop's amendment, which provides that the proposed youth contract can also be used by young people under the age of 18, despite the fact that young people under the age of 18 are, in principle, not regarded as capable of acting before the law. In doing so, it is important that the court may authorise minors to perform certain activities, such as entering into a youth contract, and that the landlords are free to rent out to those minors. The amendment in question has been adopted. It has strengthened the bill for young people under 18 years of age. The text of the article in question now reads as follows: "Young people in this article mean a person who has not yet reached the age of 28 years." There is no mention of a lower limit. Does the performer have any ideas about that? I have a few final questions. In the Minister's letter of 19 February on the consistency of this initiative proposal with the legislative proposals on the rental market (34373) and the provision of data by the Tax Administration (34374), the Minister writes that this initiative introduces a ground for cancellation with which the rent of a house made available to a younger person after five or at the latest seven years can be cancelled for the benefit of a new young person. This leads to the following questions. How is it prevented that after five years the rent is simply not cancelled because the landlord can ask for a higher rent from someone who already lives there and now has a higher income? And will it not be unattractive to work with a youth contract because termination can only be for the benefit of a new youngster, given the provisions on urgent personal use? In other words: is there going to be any flexibility for landlords to re-attribute a particular property to another target group at some point? The questions raised are without prejudice to the positive treatment of this bill by the SGP Group. I am curious to hear the answer from both the applicant and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group would also like to congratulate Mrs Schouten on this fine work and the perspective it offers to young people. I see the young people nodding in the public gallery. I think they inspired Mrs Schouten. Cheap houses are scarce and scarce distribution is very difficult. The proposal is a step forward, the initiator is modest and calls it "a step" in the right direction for the housing of young people. I ask the initiator: how many young people are involved? We will also talk about it in a few weeks' time, when we deal with the bill on the lease market, but there are not very many figures available. I would ask Mrs Schouten's advisor: how do we monitor whether these groups are growing and whether the flow after these five to seven years is also coming about? Other colleagues have asked for this. And what if the flow doesn't come about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u8	Does one of the Members wish to speak in the first term? I note that this is not the case. Since there are all committee meetings, I have to suspend the sitting until 4.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u9	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank you for allowing me to defend my own initiative law here, on a day when a great deal has happened, so in sad circumstances. I would like to thank Members for their constructive input and for their warm words, not only for me but also for those who have helped and supported this bill. Before I start answering the questions, I will briefly explain the purpose of the law and the motivation for this bill. As many Members have pointed out, it is not easy for many young people, especially in the scarcity areas, to get a rental house. There are too many examples of young people who very much want a home, for example because they have gone to work or study somewhere, but cannot go there. In the end, that is why we have thought about how we can improve that situation a little bit. Because, as Members have rightly pointed out, this bill will not solve all the problems in the housing market. Hopefully it will help to improve the position of young people in the housing market. In particular, I would like to thank Perspectief, the youth organisation of the Christian Union, who has encouraged us to write this bill and have been actively involved in it. Members have asked a number of important questions. I would like to try to answer these questions as clearly and, of course, as fully as possible. I'll do that on the basis of a couple of cubes. The first block is about the flow and the question of what happens after the end of the temporary rental. The second block is about the term "urgent own use" in the law. The third part of my answer concerns the target group of this law. Finally, a specific question has been asked about the number of young people. I will return to that at the end of the block Other. I'll start with the point of flow. What happens at the end of the contact now? Almost all Members have asked questions about this. That is right, because that is the point where the most pressure will be placed at the end of the contract. Are young people gonna get in trouble? Or are we moving the problems along, as some Members have asked? We already see in practice that about half of the young people, after a number of years, flow from the first house to a house for sale or a larger house for rent. Some of these young people will thus flow by themselves, probably before the end of the rental contract. In addition, and that has been a conscious choice in this bill, the registration period continues. We have done so consciously, precisely in order to prevent a gap from being created at the end, so that young people cannot continue. Some of the young people will also have a registration period before they enter into the youth contract. The registration period does not therefore have to be five years. In many cases it will be longer, because the young person has been registered for some time. In addition, the young person knows that he is entering into a contract for a certain period of time. The younger one doesn't have to do that. It's a choice of its own. The young person may also choose to go for more long-term security, but he will probably have to wait longer before he gets a home. So it's also a choice: wait a little longer and then have some more security, or do you choose a home where you know you'll have to leave after five or seven years? The young person is there himself and also has the choice whether he wants to enter into the contract. Of course, it also has to do with preferences after the contract has ended. If a young person wants to live in the centre of Amsterdam, I cannot guarantee that a house will be available there. This is what I mentioned in the House of Representatives. In the ring around it, however, there are possibilities to involve a new rental house with the registration period that is then built up. So yes, afterward there will probably also be a moment when people will see what the next step in the living career will be. In practice, however, we see that choices are already being made. In addition, we have given the young person more certainty that this follow-up step can also be taken by passing on the registration period. The groups of the Christian Union and the CDA have specifically asked whether the UNG is involved in the information and in the fact that these contracts are coming. The VNG is not explicitly involved in this, but the municipalities with the biggest housing shortage, Amsterdam and Utrecht, have themselves asked for this bill. So they're alert to the law coming in. They are already working on how to shape that. In addition, municipalities themselves record matters in performance agreements, for example the number of youth contracts. Most of the municipalities also have these agreements. In any case, this applies to the municipalities with the greatest housing shortage. In addition, municipalities may indicate in their housing regulations which complexes relate to youth contracts. About half of the municipalities in the Netherlands actually have a housing contract, including those most affected by this problem. However, for all cases, you do not need a performance agreement or housing regulation to be able to offer a youth contract. In the end, it is always up to the landlord to decide which contract he offers. This applies both to private landlords and, for example, to housing corporations. A private landlord can state himself: I want to offer a youth contract now. And housing corporations can say: for ideal reasons, we think it is important that there is a youth contract for this target group and that homes are made available specifically for young people, so we offer these contracts. The municipalities are therefore alert themselves. They have asked for this law themselves. And where there are no agreements yet, that does not prevent a youth contract, because in the end a landlord can always decide for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u10	I have a question about the contract that comes at some point. I read in the Minister's letter that the rent of the house made available to a younger person can be cancelled after five or seven years at the latest. In Mrs Schouten's text, however, I heard that it had to be cancelled. What exactly is the point? Do you have to? Or can it? If it is "can" then someone can continue to live in the same house after five or seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u11	The contracts we are talking about are contracts for an indefinite period, as they now apply in the rental right. That five-year period is a grounds for termination. The landlord can therefore say with this law in hand after five years: we have now fulfilled a ground for termination, with which this contract is terminated. If that goes to court, the judge will also say: that's right, because that's a grounds for termination. But suppose now that the landlord is very satisfied with the tenant and the tenant himself would very much like to stay in the house. Then this law doesn't prevent that from happening. In that situation alone, the grounds for termination shall lapse. Let's just say someone lived in a house for five years. The landlord and the tenant both say: we want to go through with this, because things are going so well. But three years later, the landlord still wants to get rid of the tenant. That cannot happen anymore, because then the grounds for the withdrawal of this bill have been dropped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u12	That's crystal clear. What does it mean for the destination in the future if a tenant stays somewhere, because he or she and the landlord agree or if a tenant himself says after 15 years: now I leave? From that moment on, is this property only available to a younger person or is it allowed to enter the free market?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u13	If a label has taken place, which depends on the municipality, the label simply remains in place. Then a house is labeled as a youth home. That does not automatically expire because a tenant has been there longer. If it is an unlabelled home, there is no need for a youth contact to replace it. The grounds for termination of this youth contract will then in principle lapse. Then it has become a regular contract and does not have to be a youth contract anymore. It does depend on the specific arrangements made by the municipality. I come specifically to the questions asked by the SP. There it was said: suppose the situation is that a mother has just had a child and is expelled from her home because the termination ground is activated after five years and the end of the youth contract is near. That's what we've been thinking about. That is precisely why we have included this additional two-year extension in this legislative proposal. It really looks at the cases the SP has put forward. In the explanatory statement, this is what we call the special or poignant situations. We had this kind of example in mind. Here too, I would like to stress that this draft law does not prevent the protection of rentals. Suppose the tenant goes to court and says: I just had a child, I can't just stand on the street, because then a problem arises, then the judge will involve this in his balance of interests. In the end, of course, it is up to the court to decide what is appropriate. In any case, this bill will not bring rent protection to an end. We've built in an extra security with those two years. In addition, the corridor to the judge can always be made. And the judge can make a total balance of interests. The SP also stated that more youth contracts mean less regular contracts, because it is a redistribution of scarcity. Suppose the number of homes remains the same, what exactly does this bill do? This bill will make the offer more targeted. Complexes with homes that are really built for single-person households, but often also for young people, will also be occupied by this target group. Availability is increasing because there is a higher flow. I believe it was the representative of the VVD who said that after ten years you could have two contracts or one contract. Availability for this target group will increase. I would also like to stress that there is already labelling. Young people's contracts are already being offered, albeit not with the grounds for withdrawal set out in this bill. It is also good to realise that these are homes that are really built by their very nature specifically for young people. If there were any displacement, it would hardly happen by families or anything like that. These will be homes from about 40 to 50m. You're not gonna live in that with a whole family. The availability of housing for young people is thus increased. In addition, the offer is more targeted. It will not be less for one group and more for the other group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u14	Until her last sentence, I can follow Mrs Schouten. I cannot follow the conclusion that it will not be any less for another group if extra homes for young people are labeled. If there are 100 properties available for all people on a waiting list and you put twenty of them, on which only young people can register, separately, then are there 80 properties available for those other people who are not young or young people who cannot enter those special homes? On average, they will have to wait longer for a suitable home. By splitting the case, you're not doubling the number of homes, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u15	This bill doesn't regulate labelling. It already exists. Labeling is already on the agenda. Of the 100 homes there are, twenty can already be designated for young people and 80 for the rest. This bill doesn't do anything about that. However, this bill generates a higher circulation rate in the number of homes available to young people. As a result, more young people can make use of the housing offer. In addition, the group is more targeted. The group that may stay longer in a youth home no longer consists of young people, but still falls into that category. In doing so, it oppresses the young people who should really make use of that housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u16	You write in the explanatory statement or in the answer to the House of Representatives, one of those two, that it is the intention that the segment labeled as a youth housing segment should be increased by this better system of flow. More municipalities would use this institute because it promotes flow. Surely it's your intention to grow the labeled housing segment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u17	Let me put it this way: the segment that would have been labeled for that group, I would like to keep labeled for that group. This is often not the case now, because, for example, a younger person lives in it for up to ten years. Then you may wonder if you're still talking about a younger man. It's a youth home, though. In the beginning we say: out of the 100 homes there are 80 regulars and 20 young people. After ten years, the difference can arise that there are 90 regulars and 10 young people. We want to do something about that. What is meant for young people, we want to preserve it for young people. That doesn't mean that the group in total is getting much bigger. No, the houses are being used more specifically and their availability is increasing for that group. The PVV says that in practice only status holders will be given a residence or will be covered by this contract. I repeat the answer I have already given in the House of Representatives. In the Netherlands there is equality of law for people who are legally resident there. This bill does not change that; it does not change that. I come to the "urgent self-use," the second block. The members of the Christian Union and the CDA have asked whether alternatives have been considered and whether the concept of "urgent own use" is not overstretched. That's a fair question. Yes, there has also been thought about whether we can include it in the law in another way, whether it is covered by the term "urgent own use" and whether it is not overstretched. This bill is closely in line with the campus contracts that currently exist for young people. As the member of the Christian Union may know, campus contracts are also subject to "urgent own use." That is because the court has indicated that the ideal basis of the landlord is a basis for "urgent own use." In other words, if the landlord really wants to give this group a chance on the housing market, then the judge says, as the case law has shown, that he or she finds that a reason for urgent personal use. That is quite clearly framed and is also valid for this situation. Young people are seen as an ideal motive. The term 'urgent own use' therefore refers to this. In legal practice, this is simply working well. That is why we have chosen not to amend it now. What does this mean for the future and for the bill on the flow on the rental market, which is still pending here? You can have that discussion with your advisor in due course. It is in itself a meaningful discussion. The representative of the VVD has asked what happens if mistakes are made in the termination and whether "urgent own use" can no longer be regarded as grounds for withdrawal. It is also asked whether all this is not too rigid and whether it is intended that this is done in such a way and that someone can stay longer in a home if there are formal errors or something like that. As I mentioned earlier, we are talking about contracts for an indefinite period, but with a ground for termination after five years. For the current contracts for an indefinite period of time, even if you can go to court if there is a discussion about canceling. That's an essential part of rent protection. It's no different in this law. Someone can go to court if he doesn't agree with the end of the lease. Then it is up to the judge to determine whether that termination is justified or not. That is already the case and that does not change with this law. It has been asked whether the grounds for termination of the contract will expire if a voluntary situation arises. The Member of the SGP has just asked for this. That is the case, but that is only when the landlord himself says that he is okay with someone staying longer in the house. Then it became a regular contract after that. The VVD representative asked what the procedure is for evacuation and how we can change or improve it. Here too, the same situation applies as is currently applicable in rental law. If a contract is over and a tenant stays in the house, while he is not allowed to stay there, the landlord can go to court to ask for an eviction order. Then the bailiff can be ordered to evacuate. That is the case now, and that does not change with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u18	Of course you can go to court. However, I can imagine that there could be formal errors, especially in the administration of a somewhat larger landlord. What can a judge like that do? As it is now regulated, he can only see that a mistake has been made and that there is an automatic penalty. My question was to point out that this might be a little too rigorous; not rigid, but rigorous. Isn't that a very severe punishment for a not too culpable offense? Don't you miss the purpose of this? After all, the objective is not an indefinite time, but rather a fixed time. Again, the landlord doesn't suffer, because the rent goes on. The sitting tenant also has no problem with it, because it stays in place, although you may wonder if it is still in good faith. But whoever would have been next, and for whom this law is meant, is empty-handed. Shouldn't that be provided for? Now the judge has no choice but to find "unfortunately." When evacuated, people sometimes do not cooperate very voluntarily, even if there are all kinds of good reasons to evacuate. Now we are creating a large number of new situations in which the rent has to be terminated. Don't you get a corresponding increase in conflicts around evacuations? Will it then suffice to refer to the court and say that nothing else will change? Something will change, because there will be a lot of new evacuation situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u19	The latter is the question. The campus contracts, which are very similar to the youth contracts, show that it is clear in advance when the contract ends, namely when the study is completed. That border is more arbitrary than the one included in this bill. After all, when a study is completed, you can have quite a bit of discussion with each other. In practice, we do not see an extreme increase in the number of cases or expulsions of persons. I don't think this is gonna play too much. If there is a formal error, the court can, of course, extend the lease. But there is always a balance of interests. The judge will take into account the intention of the contract. If there is a formal error, it means that the contract can be renewed for a certain period of time or something like that. That's a real judge's decision. The intention is to have a fixed-term contract, but it's an indefinite contract. That sounds a little double, but I think this discussion will play a lot more around Minister Blok's bill. This is really about temporary leases. This isn't a temporary lease. This is an open-ended contract with an additional grounds for termination, as is the case for students who have completed their studies, for disabled people in a given home or for elderly people. That is the intention of this law. In practice, it will be temporary contracts, with rent protection on top of that. In the end, it is up to the court to determine whether that formal error has been made aware or unconscious and what this means for the duration of the contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u20	Mrs Schouten now refers to the Law on the flow of rentals. We're not treating them right now. I asked the same question under that law. Then I got the answer that there's nothing left for the judge to fix. That seems a little different from what Mrs Schouten is saying. I hope, with Mrs Schouten, that there will be more situations in which evacuation takes place, but that this will give rise to few problems. We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u21	Mr Schouwenaar rightly points out that this is just the difference between this law and Minister Blok's law. This law isn't about temporary rent. It applies indefinitely, but an additional termination ground has been created. The lease market can no longer be made in the Act, but this bill deliberately chooses to do so. That is a conscious choice of the initiator. I come to the questions about the target group. The Member of the SGP in particular has asked questions about this. He asked if 27 isn't too high. If you are 27 and you can add another 5 years and there is a poignant situation, then you can live in such a house until you are 34. Are we still talking about a younger man? It is up to private landlords themselves to set an upper limit. These are the margins that the law indicates. Within these margins, we can talk about a youth contract. A private landlord can always choose to set the border to, for example, 24 years. In the case of housing corporations, labelling can also be used to restrict housing. The law thus indicates the margins and choices can still be made within them. Also here you have to look at what kind of property it is. They are smaller houses of 40 to 50 m. It's a question of whether you want to live in a place like this by the age of 30. Especially in the case of family formation, this is unlikely. In addition, income requirements apply to these contracts. If an older young person's income is too high, he can no longer qualify for such a contract. I agree with Mr Schalk that every border is, in principle, arbitrary. The same applies to the lower limit. The SGP has tabled an amendment to that effect in the House of Representatives, and it has also been adopted. This states that 18 years may be too rigid and that there are situations where young people under 18 need a home. If that is the case, a parent or caregiver will always have to sign the contract. The young person under the age of 18 is not qualified to draw. By doing so, we already indicate that sometimes it's best to look. What's the target? What's the balance? In any case, we did not want to make the frameworks too tight. However, that does not rule out the possibility for the landlord to make more specific choices. In addition, Mr Schalk asked whether the flexibility for the landlord would not be too limited. This was particularly about the case where you first rented the house to a younger person and next time have to rent it to a younger person. This is about the conditions for the application of the urgency of our own use. In the end, of course, it is up to the landlord himself to decide whether he wants to offer a youth contract or not. He doesn't have to. Many landlords will do it for ideal motives, such as housing corporations, but perhaps there are also private landlords who say: I want to give these young people a chance and go specifically for that youth contract. Mr Schalk spoke just now about the situation in which the youngster is satisfied and the landlord says: fine, stay put. Of course you can. After that, however, the landlord can no longer simply terminate the contract, because there is then a regular rental contract. In addition, if it has become a regular contract and has not been labelled, the property does not necessarily need to be rented out to a younger person. But if a landlord wants to meet the requirement of "urgent own use," he will have to take that into account. Again, the landlord himself is there at that time. That is why we have included in the legislative proposal an element in which there is an interchangeability between students and young people, in order to increase the flexibility for the landlord slightly. We're talking about groups that do overlap after all. Maybe there's a time when there's a lot more young people than students. For example, campus contracts and youth contracts can also be exchanged. That offers a little more flexibility. Students can therefore simply be covered by youth contracts and vice versa. So that's how we tried to solve that. Finally, I come to the question put by the D66 Member. That was the hardest question, I must say. How many young people are involved in this? We have asked ourselves the same question before. What exactly is the size of the group? I have to admit that we cannot predict how many young people will benefit from these contracts. We know that the cities that have asked for it and have already experimented with these youth contracts are the cities where many young people live. Amsterdam, Utrecht, Nijmegen and Haarlem have all asked about it or are already working on it. I think this is a part that can be included in the evaluation, to see if this really meets a need. I know that there has been a trial in Amsterdam involving some 300 young people. They are still taking part, because they still live in those homes. With the D66 Member, I am very curious to see how many young people we will be able to serve with this bill. I have come to the end of the answer from my side. I don't know if there's any more questions or if there's a second term. At least this was my side of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. Like the members of the First Chamber, I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for Mrs Schouten. With this initiative law, it has invested a great deal of energy and commitment in a very important subject. The compliments also go to the young people of the Christian Union. They suddenly moved to the other side of the public gallery. They have acted as important drivers. The valuation is also so great because Mrs Schouten's analysis is in line with the government's analysis of the housing market. I will give it in broad terms, because it is also in line with the questions put by a number of Members. Mrs Van Weerdenburg started with the question of whether there will soon be enough middle-priced rentals to flow through. If you look from some distance at the Dutch housing market, you see a special structure. The number of properties is not so different from what we see in Western Europe. The total number of rentals doesn't do that much, but the composition of the rental stock does. The share of social housing is the highest we know. We do not know any other country, not in Europe, but also outside, where there are over 30% of the stock of social housing. The downside of the coin is that the stock of free sector, medium-priced rentals, is much smaller than in other countries. The ratio gets even weirder when we find that despite the largest stock of social housing we know, there are still large waiting lists in a number of places. Then you'd say we're not doing something right. There is a large stock, but there are long waiting lists. Of course, this has to do with the lack of flow. The causes of this are strong in Dutch history. The housing corporations have traditionally done good work in housing people with a small wallet, but we must also note that people who have ever come in there with a small wallet continue to live there massively. They do that of course because they are attached to the house, but also because they find that they pay a relatively low rent for quality very good homes. So of the Dutch social housing stock of about 2.5 million, more than half a million are inhabited by people with an income who would not be entitled to that social housing if they applied tomorrow. Half a million homes, which are more than there are in Amsterdam and Utrecht together, to name but the cities with the biggest bottlenecks. The low stock of free sector rentals has also grown historically. A number of members probably remember that, for example, the ABP was a major player in the housing market. For a pension fund, rental homes are an attractive investment, because income generally follows inflation and pensions and benefits try to do the same. In addition, the risk is of course much lower than on shares and the return is still better than on bonds. We have seen in recent years, really until recently, that large investors, such as pension funds, found investments in homes outside the Netherlands more attractive. A lot of money went to Germany and England. They found that there was an uneven playing field with housing corporations, which operate with a state guarantee and get the land cheap. Again, social housing can be justified, but for the free sector, for which it was also used, private investors said that they could not compete against it. This was a reason for the government to take a number of measures, including in the Housing Act, which was also approved in this Chamber last year. It indicated that housing corporations had to go back to social housing. They are good at this and they are doing important work. It has been said to them: concentrate the resources on that. For example, it has been stated that the social rental limit is now frozen for a number of years, so that where the demand for the free sector is highest, just above that limit, an investor does not have the concern that he will be overtaken by that social rental limit. There have been changes to the housing valuation system. Recent reports, which have also been received by the press, indicate that there is now a great deal of interest from investors. A Capital Value study indicated that 5.5 billion is available for investment in the free rental sector. The question to municipalities is: make enough money available. That's a message I always give in consultation with congregations. By the way, I will also continue to visit investors at home and abroad to tell them how important this is. The interest is here. I cannot often state in political life that there is a lot of money available, looking for a destination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u23	For the record, I think you meant to make the municipality's land available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u24	Sure. Did I go out on a walk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u25	You were talking about money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u26	That's a good correction. It is a matter of land, because the money is ready. By the way, we also see that the production of middle expensive rentals is growing. So it's not just birds in the sky. I will look into the specific questions that I have. I gave Mrs Van Weerdenburg my outline of what is needed in the housing market and the measures taken by the cabinet. Mrs Schouten's measure is very much in line with the approach to destabilization, because after the end of the five-year period, or possibly seven-year period, it is considered whether the tenant still belongs to the target group in terms of income. Mrs Bikker indicated that the pace of housing should be raised. I have already indicated that investors are very interested in the free sector. I recently sent to the Chamber the prognosis information of the housing corporations. I am going to go through the figures with great strides: the intention is to add some 14,000 social housing units a year. It is therefore absolutely not the case that the production has stopped. Mrs Bikker also asked whether the concept of "urgent self-use" was not overstretched. Mrs Schouten rightly pointed out that the term "urgent own use" is logical and very testable for the construction in her own initiative proposal that the landlord should show that the new tenant is also one of the target groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u27	I can share that conclusion. Especially in view of the case law and the campus contracts, it is perfectly logical to opt for that understanding. However, I pointed out that, if you look at the legibility of the BW, the concept of "urgent own use" is mainly filled by case law and cases that were not intended for urgent personal use. That brought me to the metaphor of a house with more and more attachments. Should it not be considered at another time whether the WFD could be formulated more clearly and clearly on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u28	I very much agree with Mrs Bikker on this. That was also an important reason for me to clarify in the Law of the House, which this House has now achieved, where "urgent own use" might be even more obvious. In that bill, I propose, among other things, that this wording should be used in housing specifically for really large families. In addition, I would suggest that we do not fall into 'urgent own use' where it is actually a short time, because then it will indeed get messy. In this way, the concept can be properly and clearly framed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u29	I think it would be good if we had a little more discussion on that. I do not yet fully share the Minister's analysis, but I think it would be more purer to do so with the other legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u30	I can't wait until that moment, Mrs. Bikker. Mr Schouwenaar asked about the judicial test. In my opinion, Mrs Schouten was right about that. Yes, there can be a corridor to the court, but with the laws in hand it will check whether one young person is reasonably replaced by another, and whether there is no unbearable damage done to the tenant. In that case, he will probably decide in accordance with the law that the lease may indeed be dissolved. Mr Köhler is concerned about the effects of the bill, but with Mrs Schouten I note that you are now being blocked. I just gave you a numerical view of what it looks like in the country. A lot of low-income people once got, rightly, a social housing at the beginning of their working and living careers. I think the added value of Mrs Schouten's bill is that, after a number of years, we can test whether a house can be released for new needs in the housing market. They can rightly say: now we are at the start of our career with matching income, so we would like this property to be made available to us. Mr Schalk asked whether there would be a new form of skewed housing, but then up to 34 years. It kind of reminded me of my own college days. I could meet a ten-year-old sociology student at a student's apartment in Groningen with a similar age. It was also subject to a more luxurious arrangement than I was allowed to experience. For Mr Schalk's question, I use the same reasoning as we do: at least we can prevent that person from living in a social housing house at the age of 44, hopefully not as an eternal student but now with a good income. If this law is passed, we can say: Mr or Mrs, you are now really able to find a suitable home outside the social housing stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u31	But just now I understand that landlord and tenant can decide that someone will just stay there. Then how does the 44-year-old leave the house according to the Minister's reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u32	I think that is the answer to another question from Mr Schalk, namely what should the landlord do when the demand for youth homes decreases. In such a case, the landlord will prefer that the property stays rented. Therefore, it is not obvious to make it impossible to continue a lease. That is why the wording in the letter is that the lease can "can be terminated'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u33	I was just about to say I didn't ask that question. I merely said that the Minister indicated in his letter that the rent could be cancelled. So it doesn't have to be. About a landlord and tenant who agree that things are going very well, Mrs Schouten has just explained to us in detail that the rent can continue, so to speak up to 44 years. Then the figure of living crooked is created, and nothing can be done because the contract has become regular. That is how I feel, if I follow Mrs Schouten's reasoning. So the question is whether it is true that you can tell a 44-year-old to get him out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u34	Mr Schalk is right about that. That is why every case needs to be looked at exactly. It's about someone whose rent hasn't been canceled after the moment they liked it. Then it will indeed be an indefinite contract and the landlord will indeed not be able to terminate the contract. Mr Pijlman asked about the monitoring of the target group and the flow. Every year, in the autumn, we publish a State of the Housing Market and in the spring, a State of Housing, which focuses specifically on the social housing stock. Once every three years, my ministry has a major national investigation, the Housing Research, in which we map in great detail how people are housed and what their wishes are. So I would say: there is no lack of data. That's why I was able to give you the sketch of the composition of the housing market I just gave you. I fully agree with Mr Pijlman that you should keep following a law like this, but actually every law, numerically over time. We'll be happy to share those figures with the Chamber. I hope I have answered the questions I have been asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u35	Could the Minister comment on my observation that, in practice, status holders will mainly benefit from this arrangement? Does he agree with Mrs Schouten that there is a fair distribution of scarcity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u36	I do not think that, as Mrs Van Weerdenburg does, you can say that status holders will benefit in particular. Once status holders are granted status in the Netherlands, they have the same right to housing and other facilities as other people who are legally resident in the Netherlands. Therefore, if they meet the age criteria, they will also be able to participate in leases on the basis of this law. I could not support the argument that this would be the majority, because there is no reason to believe that the majority of young people looking for a home in the Netherlands are status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u37	Thank you. We shall then be ready for the second term of office. I call Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u38	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a way to promote the flow into the social housing market, but the real problem is the influx. We must not talk about the current asylum system as if it were a natural phenomenon that we cannot do anything about. That is nonsense, but this cabinet refuses to close the borders and is therefore responsible for many tens of thousands of additional asylum seekers who will put such immense pressure on the already tight social housing market that we fear will collapse underneath. What we are discussing here today is nothing more than a symptom reduction. The applicant does not deny the finding that status holders will benefit mainly from this scheme. It states quite clearly that this bill does nothing about the equality of status holders and does not want to do anything about it. I would suggest to the applicant that in future we should talk about status-holder contracts rather than youth contracts, because the last term does not cover the load and is rather misleading.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u39	I am surprised that Mrs Van Weerdenburg now states that the applicant has stated that this bill is intended for status holders. It says "young people's contracts" everywhere. An age limit is mentioned. All who are legally resident in the Netherlands are granted the same rights. I am therefore amazed at Mrs Van Weerdenburg's statement. I also ask her, when it comes to asylum seekers, to distinguish them from status holders, because that concerns another group. Mrs Van Weerdenburg is very easy to wipe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u40	No, I didn't. I indicated in the first instalment how many status holders in asylum seekers' centres are currently waiting for housing. I also said which part of the current asylum seekers in the Netherlands are in the relevant age group. I have also said that a substantial part of this will be granted a residence permit in the Netherlands. There's numbers of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u41	Will Mrs Van Weerdenburg go into the figures in more detail? She first referred to the number of young asylum seekers who would be granted a residence status, but she also said that a majority of young people looking for housing would immediately be status holders and that Mrs Schouten's proposal was largely in line with that. Will Mrs Van Weerdenburg recalculate me again? She mentioned the number of 28,000. Why is that the majority of young house seekers? I have very different grades, but I'd like to be convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u42	I didn't say it was a majority. However, practice will prove that. In fact, places in asylum-seekers' centres need to be opened up. These people are already giving priority to social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u43	They are no longer given priority in social housing, but Mrs Van Weerdenburg stated that there are so many. She mentioned a number of 28,000. She also stated that Mrs Schouten's proposal would mainly work for this group. I assume, therefore, that Mrs Van Weerdenburg believes that this concerns the majority of young people looking for housing, but where does she come from? Isn't there a lot of other young house seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u44	Look at what's ahead of us in terms of numbers and what's still pouring in every year. 60% are in that age group. Where does Mr Köhler intend to put these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u45	Mrs Bikker also wanted to ask a further question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u46	I am pleased that Mr Van Weerdenburg is once again making a distinction between asylum seekers and status holders. Status holders have equal rights in this country. The PVV must submit its own initiative legislative proposals if it is to be seen differently, but I do not see that differently. It is logical that every law has a certain effect on all citizens in the country with equal rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u47	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u48	Does Mrs Van Weerdenburg know the beautiful cabaret song "And who gets the blame? That retarded gay Jewish nigger with a bump"? That is actually what we hear from the PVV every time, aimed at asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u49	That wasn't a question either. I call Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u50	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the applicant for the clear answer, at a rapid pace. I haven't seen an initiative bill that went at such a rapid rate before. Maybe that's a compliment too. Mrs Schouten has made it clear that this bill contributes to a better distribution of the scarcity in the social housing sector and will also promote flow. I have two short points to make. One point concerns the urgent use of one's own resources, but we come back to the legislative proposal that the Minister has already brought before us. That seems easier and better to me. The other point is the responsibility of municipalities. Mrs Schouten has clearly stated that the municipalities have to take them and that most municipalities with a high housing shortage do so. I should like to hear from the Minister whether he is in contact with the VNG on this, because not only the frontrunners in housing shortage, Amsterdam and Utrecht, but also the other municipalities must prepare themselves for this, so that we do not have to look at what the youth contracts have achieved in five years' time. The answer given by the applicant was clear, but I hope that the Minister will also take policy steps in this respect. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u51	Mr. Chairman. I didn't ask the Minister any questions in the first place. I'll resist the temptation to go into his input now. In addition, we will shortly be waiting for a debate on his proposal on the flow and the rental market. Then we can cross the swords on that. Mrs Schouten points out that her own initiative proposal does not have to lead to more youth homes or more youth-labelled houses, which I regret, because I felt it was one of the advantages that the legislative proposal might lead to this, but that it is mainly aimed at improving the flow of youth homes, in order to improve the availability of these types of housing, because they will be released more quickly. Is the lack of flow within the stock of young people's homes in the Netherlands the main problem now? What is the idea based on that this is now stagnating so that we have to take a specific approach to this? Mrs Schouten herself said that experience learns, looking at the current stock of young people's homes, which apparently already exists, that more than half of the population flows within five years to another rental house or purchase house. Apparently, the flow without that stick behind the door is already so good. You can also conclude that the flow for another part, the people who depend on a cheap social home, is not so good. That is the problem, because that other part is required by the bill from the youth home and can then figure it out on the housing market. Mrs Schouten has mentioned a number of arguments why people, because they are allowed to stay on the waiting list all this time, are often eligible for a different social housing, but I do not think that these arguments are waterproof. It indicates that young people can register on the regular waiting list much earlier. She's right about that. That doesn't apply to every young person or student, but if you already live in the relevant place, you register at the age of 18. Everyone knows that. For example, you will only get a youth home at the age of 21, because there will be waiting times for that too. Then you're 26 if you have to get out, because that has to be, except for exceptional cases; but then you have to rely on the judge. Otherwise, you're gonna have to get out. At least that's the point. In many large municipalities in this country you are not yet on sufficient waiting time. As an example, she mentioned Amsterdam. I live there, so I know the situation pretty well. She said: yes, in the city centre you can't go with the seven years waiting, but in the neighborhoods around it. I wish! The waiting period in Amsterdam-Oost, Amsterdam-Zuid, Amsterdam-West and also in Amsterdam-Noord is now more than ten years for a social home. So you can't go there. That means another temporary contract or you have to go to the parental home or sublet. We think that is a fairly big problem. With this you offer people a good supply for a number of years, then a number of years nothing at all, after which they have to wait years to end up in a normal social rental house. That problem will not be solved by this law. Of course, it is also very difficult to solve that, because there are too few rentals for all those who ask for them. The talk that there are far too many of them in the Netherlands is slowly being told by no one. Mrs Schouten cannot solve this problem at all with the draft law, but in our view it gives us insurmountable problems for part of the group that is going to involve the young people's homes and has to leave after five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u52	Are you thinking about your time, Mr Köhler?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u53	Yeah, I'm rounding up. As far as we are concerned, the balance remains. The advantage of the law is that it promotes the flow into the "youth homes" segment and thus increases the availability of homes for young people looking for housing. The disadvantage, however, is that after five years some of them are again without a home and cannot find a home either. In the consideration of these pros and cons, the balance sheet for the SP Group is disappointing, without prejudice to our great appreciation of Mrs Schouten's initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u54	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Schouten for the proper response. I asked her about the figures and she says that she only has the experience of Amsterdam. The Minister refers to the State of the Housing Market and to the Housing Research. Is it right that this should come out in April? And does he want to include the evaluation of this bill in the figures in the State of the Housing Market and/or the Housing Research? We shall vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Pijlman. Last but not least, I give the floor to Mr Schalk, whom I have just skipped. I'm sorry, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u56	Mr. Chairman. Apologies have, of course, been accepted. I would like to thank both the author and the Minister for answering the questions. I have a few final comments on behalf of the SGP Group. It has become very clear that we are dealing with an indefinite contract, but with an additional termination ground: urgent use of our own. That means that it could happen in practice that someone stays there longer. Then it becomes a regular contract. At that point, when you live crookedly, you end up with another bill. I think that is what we will be talking about in the draft law on the flow of rents. However, I would like to point out here that this could happen. In my first term, I dealt with the age limit, both the upper limit and the lower limit. Mrs Schouten has indicated that at some point the landlord can choose which upper limit he applies. Apparently it doesn't necessarily have to be 27; you can also choose 22 or 24. The question is only: I cannot answer it this way, but I am sure Mrs Schouten will be able to answer it if it is also sustainable in court that you have laid down in the law that youth contracts are valid for young people under 28 years of age, but that a landlord can say that it should be 24. I'm still curious about that. With regard to young people under the age of 18, Mrs Schouten indicated that they needed the parents' signature. I think this is a very important point, because it is then enshrined in the law that parents can continue to exercise their full responsibility towards their children under the age of 18. I'm glad it's settled that way. Thank you again for the answers. Mrs Schouten has undoubtedly understood that the SGP Group is looking positively at this bill, but I am still looking forward to the final response to my single question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u57	Do you have an opportunity to answer directly, Mrs Schouten? I see that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u58	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their second term contribution. I believe that the discussion between the PVV representative and the other Members has already made it clear that I have not indicated that this bill is mainly aimed at placing status holders, but that the law is the same for every Dutch citizen and that this is the same for this bill. The representative of the Christian Union and the CDA, for which she also spoke, asked whether the Minister could indicate how municipalities can fulfil their own responsibilities. I am happy to pass that question on to the Minister and I assume that he will be able to answer that question. The Member of the Party of European Socialists has raised a more fundamental point. I would therefore like to say a little more. At first, he indicated that the fact that more youth contracts are coming up is precisely a problem for the SP. Later, he expressed his regret that I indicated that it is not so much a question of many more youth homes, but that it is mainly a question of availability. That contradicts each other a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u59	In itself, I do not mind that there would be a progressive understanding between the two deadlines, but I also stated in the first period that I found it an advantage that this law would increase the provision of accommodation for young people, but that it had the disadvantage that the waiting lists would then become longer for others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u60	I want to fight that last one. I have tried to clarify this in my first term and I will try to do it again. It is precisely because of the flow and precisely because there will then be an income test that the group which is not covered by the social housing, and which is therefore not eligible, will, as it were, come up. It can then be said to that group: listen, you are no longer in the target group, you can move on to a buying house or a rental house outside the social rental sector. The big advantage of this bill is that people with too high incomes don't stay in homes that are not intended for them for too long. That's the point. As a result, the displacement that we had a discussion about in the first period does not have to take place. Then I come to the risk for young people that there will be no home because the waiting times are so long, for example in Amsterdam. I do not deny that the waiting times are long and perhaps too long. I admit that to the Member of the SP; I would also like them to be shorter. But the alternative that the younger person now has is that, if he wants to live in Amsterdam for example, he may have to live in a precarious form for four or five years because there is no offer for this target group because that young person has not been able to register. And if he has registered, he will indeed have to wait those eight or nine years before a property becomes available. This bill ensures that access is possible earlier for that group and that the young person himself will have to realize that it also means that there will be a flow-through moment once, so that there can be no waiting with the poor until it takes place. The young person himself has the choice not to enter into such a contract, with as an alternative a precarious form of housing, or to enter into such a contract, with the choice to actively search for another home. That is the choice we are now offering, a choice that adds to this bill. In the end, I regret that the SP makes the assessment that staying in the tenant's seat is more important than giving young people opportunities in homes. But of course I respect that choice. I would like to thank the honourable Member of D66 for the warm words for the legislative proposal. I hope he will answer the question to the Minister himself. To the Member of the SGP, I note the following about the risk of the new skeptical habitation. I have perhaps not emphasised enough: the landlords who want to work with these contracts really do so for ideal reasons. The housing corporations I've spoken to really want homes to become available to this target group. The chance that the whole group will stay, because the landlord and the tenant are so happy with each other, I do not think, because these housing companies want to give young people a chance. But in the case of the private landlord there we run the greatest chance of it being so anyway, it is ultimately up to him to consider it himself. But again, the housing corporations often opt for the young. On the shelf life for the judge, I note the following. If the law provides for an age limit of 27 years, but this is limited to 24 years, then this can be regulated in the performance agreements made by the municipalities. Municipalities can make agreements with a housing corporation about how big, how old and how young that target group should be. But if we want to use this termination ground for urgent personal use, it will have to fall within the ranges of this bill. Finally, I would like to thank a number of people specifically who have supported me. These are Mr Schumacher, Mr Wiersma and Mrs Bijl from the Ministry and Mr Hakvoort, Mr De Snoo and Mr Visser from the youth organisation and from the Lower House. They've spent an incredible amount of time preparing this bill. With them, I'm very proud to have been able to defend the bill here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u61	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Weerdenburg said that the cabinet would do nothing about the asylum influx. That's incorrect. A special subsidy programme has been set up to add extra sober living space. At the request of the housing corporations, part of the Transit Act is the possibility to allow five-year leases for independent housing, precisely to make the construction of these additional living spaces more attractive. Mrs Van Weerdenburg also knows that the Dutch Government has played a prominent role in the EU's agreements with Turkey. Mrs Bikker asked me to encourage the municipalities to use this law. We have agreed in the Housing Act that the responsibility for making performance agreements between municipalities and housing corporations is deliberately placed with municipalities, on the basis of a housing vision. Not all municipalities, I expect, will use this law, because not all municipalities lack social housing. If I may understand Mrs Bikker's request in such a way that I will bring this new law to the fore in my consultation with the UNG, I will be delighted to do so. Mr Köhler would like to have a more extensive debate with me at a later stage. I look forward to it. I can confirm to Mr Pijlman that the next Housing Research will be out in April. It may contain interesting information on the state of play with regard to this law. But we won't be able to show what the first effects of the law are until three years from now. When it comes to the review of the law, Mr Pijlman asked for it to be included in the annual report. I would suggest that we do this in two ways. I think it's purely to evaluate a law independently as a law. But the aim of the annual reporting is, of course, to show the developments in the housing market. I think it is logical that I should also like to say that where information is available, such as municipalities reporting that they will make use of it, we will inform the Chamber as soon as possible in the annual reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-10.u62	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday.
