ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u1	Six speakers have spoken on the side of the Chamber. First of all, Mr Omtzigt has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) is rightly contested. All banks in the world are forced to collect data for the U.S. tax authorities. Then there is the question of whether, on the basis of reciprocity, America itself will exchange data with other tax administrations. The FATCA legislation is intended to tackle the American black horse. This is a noble goal, but in the Netherlands there is one other problem that has become acute by the FATCA legislation: the problem of residents with American nationality and actually a wider group, namely people with a green card born there, who were unaware of their duty to report in the United States. The CDA asked in the report of the present bill how many people who have a dual nationality or are otherwise affected by this legislation are in Curaçao and what are the differences between the tax laws of Curaçao and the United States. These differences can lead to the payment of double taxation. The answer was shocking: the government doesn't know. There is no knowledge of the US tax system, the Minister for Foreign Affairs wrote. Let us be clear: Curaçao is close to the United States. There are multiple flights a day and people go up and down between Curaçao and the United States, so it's pretty safe to predict that thousands of people will be affected. That's the big problem. What happens if, as a Dutchman, wherever in our Kingdom, you have the American nationality and the FATCA discovers that you should have reported in the US all these years and will have to do so forever? The Dutch government doesn't do anything, doesn't know anything. In fact, a year ago, the government admitted that if the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of the United States is going to prosecute the Dutch for not reporting, it is obliged to extradite these Dutch, so that they can be imprisoned in the United States. It may well be common knowledge among fiscalists that the United States adheres to the principle of nationality. Among all the other Dutch people, say: our construction workers, nurses, primary school teachers or others are totally unknown that you have to make a tax return in America your whole life because your mother was born in America or because you have lived in America for a few months. Then this is what you're wondering. Why didn't the government or the embassy ever tell me to press charges? Am I now a criminal in the United States? Do I have to pay taxes and then what do I have to pay taxes for? Why does the Dutch government allow me to pay taxes in two countries? Remember: here you pay a lot of income tax. If you sell your own property, you can tap tens of thousands of euros over the winnings in the United States. Why is it so expensive and time-consuming to get rid of American nationality? On all these questions and our sense of powerlessness and injustice, the Secretary of State was able to read in the report I presented to him on 1 June. Did he read this report? Does he understand how big this problem is for about 40,000 people in the Netherlands? What has the Secretary of State done in the past six months to try to resolve or improve the situation? Back to Curaçao. Does the government have the answers now? How many people live in Curaçao affected by this legislation? How many people have a green card or other FATCA-relevant links with the United States? How are and are these residents informed about the consequences of the FATCA legislation? Is there actually a tax treaty between Curaçao and the United States? What income or benefits are not taxed in Curaçao or are they taxed at a low rate, whereas the United States includes that income in the tax? That is the beginning of a possible solution. If the Dutch government knows exactly what benefits, income or capital flows the US is raising, the Netherlands can enter into negotiations to explicitly allocate those flows to the Netherlands in the tax treaty with the US. Finally, therefore, the following question. Is it true that Curaçao does not currently have a tax treaty with the United States? This would be a good reason to enter into negotiations. It may be strange that we are dealing here with the Curaçao Convention. This is institutionally and constitutionally regulated. What we are doing here is trying to prevent a problem for the people of Curaçao that we have discovered in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u3	I fully agree with Mr Omtzigt that the FATCA is dipping a certain group for which this law is not really intended. But there are also a lot of black savers and people who avoid tax; that is what this law is focused on. Also in Curaçao a lot of Americans park their money. It is the right of the US to try to trace these Americans through data exchange between tax administrations. Mr Omtzig does not say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u4	My speech had one sentence about that. That's right. That is why we support the purpose of the FATCA, which is to ensure that you track down the black money of your own citizens all over the world. That money could also be in Curaçao. We do not want to block that either. However, we do not want the same thing to happen in Curaçao as happened in the Netherlands. I suspect the problem is bigger there, because people live much closer to the US and have much more links with the US. You can fly back and forth in no time. The US is a lot closer than the Netherlands. However, with the group called the PVV spokesperson, I have no pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u5	It seemed that Mr Omtzigt wanted to throw the whole FATCA into the shredder, but that is not the case. Mr Omtzigt talks about 40,000 people in the Netherlands. However, only a small 200,000 people live in Curaçao, so the problem in absolute terms will not be greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u6	In absolute terms, the problem will be smaller. In the Netherlands, it accounts for less than 0.5% of the population. However, I would not be surprised if it concerns a few percent of the population in Curaçao. If you can hardly open a bank account and make tax returns in the US, knowing that this is relatively expensive in the Netherlands and that the standard of living in Curaçao is even lower, which can make it even more expensive for people, then I think it is our duty to see if this legislation does not lead to unexecutable problems for people who are absolutely not black-sparing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u7	Mr. Chairman. The good intention of the US towards FATCA is to tackle black-sparing, but a number of things are also going wrong. We've talked about that a lot in the Chamber. I have often asked questions about it and we have also had debates on it. This includes people who are no longer accepted by a bank for their investment account, for example. The Secretary of State said in those debates that the big banks would, but that the small banks still had to follow. Has that happened by now? Do the small banks now accept everyone? It's more business. We got a lot of letters. It's about people getting into trouble with mortgages. It would be about 40,000 people. That's what Mr Omtzigt said. I wonder if the Secretary of State can confirm that number. One problem is also that these people often have to deal with tax advice properly. These people have an American passport because they were born in the United States, but otherwise they are only Dutch. They now have to pay instead of €4002,500 to get rid of their nationality. That's a hell of a lot of money. The question is whether the problems in Curaçao are comparable. In the written reply, the Secretary of State already wrote that he expects the same problems there. It's interesting to know how many people this is about. He writes that there's a proposal in the U.S. Congress. Does that help the trouble or not? At the end of 2014 we discussed the treaty with the Netherlands in the framework of FATCA. In it we discussed the Common Reporting Standard (CRS). The Secretary of State said that 80 countries have joined. That's where the financial centers were. There were only five countries not covered by the category "more or less prosperous." The Secretary of State said that he had never heard of some countries and that, if we heard the names of those countries, we would probably think they were hobby associations. I can't wait to see which category Panama fell under. Was that one of those hobby clubs we'd never heard of before, or did the Secretary of State take it for granted with the countries that signed it? After all, much later, after the release of the Panama Papers, we heard that this country agreed. I want to know what's going on. What about other countries, such as Hong Kong, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates, say the usual suspects? I searched the OECD site and found two lists, which I have here in front of me. The strange thing is that I do see the countries mentioned on the list of 9 May, but not on a later list, dated 3 June. Both really come from the OECD website. That's weird. Furthermore, it is not until September 2018 that many countries will have to exchange information for the first time. Why does it take so long? What about the U.S.? The US did not commit to the Common Reporting Standard and did not sign the Multilateral Competence Authorities Agreement (MCAA) because they have FATCA. The question is, then, what is the situation with regard to reciprocity? We also discussed this in the 2014 debate. Can the U.S. request more from us than we do from the U.S.? That's what the Secretary of State said at the time that this was gonna work out. He said that reciprocity was just going to happen and that he had no doubts about it. There was then a law in the U.S. Congress that still had to be signed. What happened to that? I understand Obama wants to, but the Republican part of Congress doesn't want to, and so does the states. The result is that it is not an equal crossing. What will the Secretary of State do with the other countries that do sign the CRS? In the end, we want a level playing field, providing equal data. This is aimed in particular at those states which want to keep their banking secrets. Can they keep their banking secrets this way? Think of Delaware, for example. The CRS cannot be looked into in the past. If we now request something from countries with the exchange, we cannot ask for data from the past. At least that's how I understood it. Can the Secretary of State confirm or deny that? It is said that you will only look at the data relating to the period after the treaty has been concluded. That would be annoying, wouldn't it? What about FATCA? Here we can look back 12 years. If someone cheated on the tax 13 years ago, the state is in bad luck and luck. That's basically what it's all about. But what about if the other country doesn't have to keep that data for so long? If, for example, other countries do not have to keep this data for more than five years, can we get it from them? We prefer that they exchange that data automatically. After all, you want to be able to look at the past as well. I am referring, of course, to being able to look back ten years. Can we tackle people for tax fraud in the past abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u8	Mr. Chairman. We have already heard a number of stories from people affected by the FATCA treaties or even more by American law, which, if you have an American passport, you always have to pay taxes there. There are poignant examples where people are very powerless, for example people who were born in 1967 in America because their father had a job there and went back two years later. These people have nothing to do with America anymore, but they are now concerned with the consequences of this regulation. If they want to get rid of that citizenship, they will have to pay $2,000 and they will also have to make tax returns for six years. In addition, they must hire an advisor who costs €5,000. That's a hell of a lot of money, and it's not for everyone. A lot of people just can't afford that. Those cases also come to our attention. It is also about people who want to sell their homes in the Netherlands and who would normally do so, but who do not want to do so because they happen to be covered by this regulation. They may then be used in America for the profits that may be made on the sale of the house. We have, of course, already discussed this once in a while, in general, about the Tax Administration. We have called for a solution. I do not think there is an easy solution, because of course you are not simply changing American laws and regulations, but we understand that there is now a proposal at the US Congress to solve this problem. It is unclear what this proposal means. The Secretary of State would come back to that, but perhaps he can tell us now when a decision might be taken and whether it is a real solution to the problems of all those people who are now in uncertainty: should they give up their American citizenship, should they still make tax returns and spend a lot of money or will there be a good other solution? The Secretary of State has also indicated that he will seek contact with his colleagues in Europe in order to exert pressure from Europe as well. I look forward to seeing the state of play on that route. We also asked about the banks in that general consultation. There seems to be a lower limit in the regulation of €50,000 that banks are allowed to use. Some banks keep that lower limit. Some banks also pass on information below that limit. How do banks deal with this in the Netherlands? The VVD has in the past tabled a motion on FATCA which was also supported by a number of other parties. That motion also meant that the provision of services should not be compromised by the fact that people who can be affected by this regulation can no longer receive services from Dutch banks. That motion has been passed. We would like to know what the state of play is and how the banks are dealing with this now. We believe that this would be a completely undesirable development. The Secretary of State has indicated in the past that we have tax treaties to prevent double taxation. In this case too, double taxation should be paid in a number of cases. It is still unclear to us why an amendment to the tax treaty could not be a solution. We have already adopted the FATCA regulations for the Netherlands. Now this is ahead of Curaçao and the U.S. In view of our final judgment on this story, I'll ask what goes wrong if we don't approve of it. There is now a treaty here, plus an additional treaty. Why the hell did it take us so long to get this story here and why did we even need an additional treaty? We believe that this is a duplication of effort. Apparently, this was in a drawer somewhere. That does not seem to us to be a good thing in terms of treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u9	Of course, the Chamber itself is about what it wants to discuss, but I would like to make it quite clear that this is about a treaty between Curaçao and the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u10	Certainly, Mr President, with a very large link to a long-standing problem. It is precisely because these two things are connected that I think many colleagues have called for attention to be paid to them. I can tell you now that that will also apply to me. Mr. Chairman. I would like to raise four points. Of course, it's good that the American government is trying to tackle black savers, but we see that many Dutch who are also in possession of an American nationality sometimes they were almost unaware of that now risk being mangled between two systems. What do I say, "Threaten to be"? They're being mangled. Firstly, my group believes that much more could really have been done to support Dutch citizens who also have an American nationality. Many people were robbed by FATCA and were chased at high cost. Recently we discussed this in general about the Tax Administration. The State Secretary then received the results of a survey carried out by the American Overseas Organization. In that you can see that 95% believe that they could have been better supported by the Dutch and American authorities. None of them had, for example, received information from agencies such as the Dutch or the American consulate. That makes it all an extremely painful and unsatisfactory exercise. In that consultation, I asked the Secretary of State whether it was true that banks still refuse to provide services. The Secretary of State would go after that. Mrs De Vries and others have already asked for this. Has there been contact with the banks again? So, how's it going now? If it isn't settled by now, I hope it isn't, but what if it is when? The next point is that we see that the agreements to prevent double taxation are now being distorted. This was also brought to the attention of the US authorities at the end of last year. Other countries also raise it. The Secretary of State writes that a proposal has now been included in the US government's budget proposal for the fiscal year 2017. That is good, but the Secretary of State said it himself: it is, of course, up to Congress in the United States to decide on this. But did I understand correctly that a year ago we actually had exactly the same stand, but then about the year 2016? Doesn't that show that unfortunately it doesn't succeed in putting this into practice? What scenario does the Secretary of State actually take into account in this respect? And what does all that mean for the doomed? How are we getting along with European partners? Mrs De Vries has already asked for this. Has that been contacted by now? What is the status of the consultation with the United States on the adaptation of the existing tax treaty, to which the Secretary of State referred earlier? That is where this point would be brought to the attention of the House. How's that going? What's the timeline? What about the double taxation for the residents of Curaçao? Mr Omtzig asked for the possibility of a separate tax treaty between Curaçao and the United States. Can the Secretary of State state state if there are any plans for that? How are we going to monitor that we are not going to get another exact repeat of moves, that we see the same thing as what we saw in the Netherlands? In reply to written questions, the Secretary of State says that he is not really able to provide an overview of that double taxation and that he is not very well able to indicate at what points the US tax system differs from Curaçao's tax system. That is a pity, because that is, of course, extremely relevant. Will the Secretary of State be monitoring this in the near future? One example is that benefits in Curaçao are not taxed, but according to American rules, people would suddenly have to pay taxes on them. For example, people would be dumped in the same accident as, for example, Dutch people of American nationality who sell their homes. Finally, I have two points to make. The first concerns reciprocity. The Netherlands has been supplying data from American "final stakeholders" of an entity from the outset. The U.S. doesn't supply them to the Netherlands. The Netherlands would exchange the data on the balance of an account, the value of a capital or annuity insurance, the gross proceeds of sale, the repurchase or redemption of assets, the gross amount paid or credited to financial accounts other than deposit accounts and investment schemes all equally. But does that happen the other way around? We've talked about this before, but is this straightened out? It is extremely harsh that there is not even reciprocity at a point where many people in the Netherlands are currently suffering. How's that going? The second and final point concerns data protection. My group asked about the protection of data exchanged between the Netherlands and the United States, which will soon be exchanged between Curaçao and the US. Then the answer to D66's question is whether it is secure that it is not. It follows: "The reason lies in the fact that the agreement between the competent authorities also includes elements on the method of exchange and possible situations of non-compliance of FIs. Apart from the fact that the competent US authorities are very busy preparing for the FATCA in relation to those countries that have not agreed Model I or Model II IGA, the IRS is still developing these topics. It is my aim to agree on those detailed rules before the effective exchange of data with the United States foreseen in September 2015." In the meantime, we are almost a year further. Is this data exchange now waterproof?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u11	Mr. Chairman. I signed up for ten minutes, but when I read the pieces, I thought, "Why isn't this a hammer piece?" My first question to the Secretary of State is: why is this 'dishamed', what was then... Oh, Mr Omtzigt and Mrs De Vries shouting: 'We did that!' I missed that for a while. I'd like to know. We all know that at FATCA things go wrong for a certain duped group in the Netherlands, but we all know that the exchange of data between tax administrations, as regulated in FATCA, is very important to prevent black savings and tax avoidance. From that philosophy, I've looked at it. If things do go wrong for Americans who live in the Netherlands, were born or ever got a green card, then these excesses must be dealt with. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of amending the treaty in such a way as not to undermine those people? Is it the case, as Mr Omtzigt just said, that if I ever had a green card because I once worked there and I sell my house in the Netherlands, then suddenly I have to pay taxes on the profits of my house in America? Is that right? This is put forward here, but this should be tackled in the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation. All Americans, wherever they live in the world, are liable to tax. Which other countries apply this principle? In previous questions from me, the Secretary of State didn't get much further than Eritrea. Is that the only country in the world that applies this principle of nationality? FATCA requires financial institutions worldwide to provide the US tax authorities with information on US citizens' accounts, which is in itself a good thing on the penalty of withholding tax. The introduction of FATCA has therefore led many countries to conclude such an agreement, an IGA. The advantage is that the institutions do not have to make direct agreements with America, but can do so through the tax authorities in their own country. I have a few more questions. Why is this IGA closed at Kingdom level and not separately bilaterally between the four countries within the Kingdom and the US? I understand that the Netherlands has already concluded such an agreement with the US. Will we get an Aruba-IGA and a Saint Martin-IGA, for example? Are we gonna talk about that again here? And then all the excesses around FATCA are resurrected? The IGA at Kingdom level is already closed, we read. Then why should there be a separate agreement between the United States and Curaçao? Does it now apply to the Kingdom or to the individual countries in the Kingdom? At what points does this Curaçao IGA differ from the Dutch IGA? Find the differences or is the copy-paste of the Dutch IGA? What are the risks to the Netherlands if Curaçao does not comply with the agreements made? Is this going to end up on the board of the Netherlands or is this a matter between Curaçao and the US? Why does the Curaçao Agreement require the express approval of these States General? Is there also a need for approval by the States of Curaçao? Finally, I would like to ask the same question as Mr Omtzigt. Is there a tax convention to prevent double taxation between Curaçao and the United States? If that does not exist, Curaçao will of course have a completely different problem, because all American citizens will be hit in Curaçao and they will all pay double taxes. We shouldn't want that, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u12	Mr. Chairman. There have been very many questions that I can fully agree with. So I'll be brief. For the record, we can agree to the proposed legislative changes, even if it is only to prevent banks based in Curaçao from facing an American criminal charge. I would like to dwell on two more questions. I read in the documents that we intend to modernise the tax treaty with America. I would like to put a very specific question to the Secretary of State. Is he prepared to lay down in the tax treaty issues relating to the sale of the home that is not really double taxation? In this way, people of American nationality do not have to pay that tax if they sell a house in the Netherlands. It is an international principle that real estate is taxed in the country of residence and not in the country of origin. Does the Secretary of State not consider it to be a violation of Dutch fiscal sovereignty if America taxes sales profits on house transactions in the Netherlands? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Does the Secretary of State intend to exempt certain income items from US taxation? That indeed presupposes that you have knowledge of American tax legislation. So here is another task that has been left behind in the note on the basis of the report. Furthermore, I am asking whether the Netherlands cannot do anything more to support people of American nationality who want to get rid of that nationality. That has already been noted. There are a lot of people with American nationality who actually want to get rid of it, especially now that they have to report it every year. This does not seem to be easy in practice, because then you have to lighten your entire fiscal baptism back to years. It may be that a lot of taxpayers' data has been lost. What can the Dutch Tax Administration do to support these people? Finally. What is the situation with the US Congress in order to resolve the problems of the reporting obligations of people of American nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u13	We have reached the end of the first term of office. I see the Secretary of State can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u14	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'm gonna go into the question of how this is going to be governed by state law. I'm a third-hand today. The Minister of Curaçao could have been here. He defends this first in his own States, but can then do it here at Kingdom level. If he does not wish to use it, the Foreign Minister does so, but he also had a special reason not to use it. So now I'm here to talk about something that's in the spirit of tolerance. However, it also has a fiscal connotation and that is why I do this with love on behalf of the cabinet. However, I remain a bit of a third hand. This American legislation was already there. The treaty doesn't change that. I think Mr Omtzigt has explained it very well. If you were born in America or even if one of your parents was born in America, you're American. A little further, I think it'll start in an hour. Bruce Springsteen will sing: Born in the USA. Well, that's exactly the problem. Nor is this treaty about the need for data exchange with the United States, which is necessary under US law. In fact, US law forces financial institutions to report it if someone is American according to the American definition. This Treaty only makes it easier for all parties, financial institutions and those involved, at most. I will deal with Mrs De Vries' question later on as to what will happen if we do not adopt the Treaty. At least that legislation is not before it; it has always been there. We are not talking about this either, but that legislation makes it difficult. The Netherlands can do quite little about that. When I couldn't sleep with a full moon as a very little boy, I got angry at the moon. Well, I felt more powerful about the moon then than now about the American legislator. We can't do that much, but we have to do what we can, because the liveliness with which the people who come here bring up their problem is real. It's gonna happen to you. The Netherlands has done a number of things. This is mainly about the accidental Americans. Plus, there's a bandwidth. Among the cases that come into our mailbox, there are a lot of people who have suddenly discovered that they are American, while they don't have much else to do with that country. We need to make this manageable in all kinds of ways, but we can't really change the American law. We can make it easier. The COO of the Tax Administration consults with the IRS, the U.S. tax administration. At DG level, we have discussed this for several years in a row to ensure that there is good information from the United States, that it is done in a proper way and that it leads to understandable forms. That is not always the case either. The forms that these people need to fill out, we won't all give here an A. In the treaty negotiations with the American treaty partner, we have also taken this under control. The embassy's doing a few things. It has also emerged in the OECD discussions. The Americans know the problem. Remarkably, it is recognised by other European Member States, but not to the extent that it comes up here, although it could still be. So we find resonance, but that doesn't happen impetuously. The Commission has no competence whatsoever, nor is it the appropriate body to bring this to the attention of the Americans. We are considering whether we can draft a letter to the Americans on behalf of several European Member States. We'll just go through the doors and see who wants to sign with us. That seems to me to be a feasible map, but the question is how many countries will eventually be included in it. Several speakers point out that the Americans themselves have already made a proposal. Mr Van Weyenberg is right to say that he remembers that and that it has been there for a year. That is true, but the proposal now before us is intended to bring it into force on 31 December this year. I'm not sure I can do that, by the way. I have so far been bitten by the predictability of Dutch politics and do not want to take a chance with American politics. The proposal now before us will solve it for the real 'accidental Americans'. One is "more accidental" than the other, but the proposal says that someone can be excluded if he was born with American nationality and another nationality. That's the kind of case we're dealing with. He must have been a resident of a country other than the United States. He must not have lived there after his 18th year of age and he must not have had a U.S. passport. If he did have that passport, he must be able to demonstrate clearly that he needed to leave the United States during that period and settle elsewhere. The condition for getting off the hook is that someone has renounced American citizenship within some period of time. The real accident Americans will be covered with this. Of course, we can all think of what 'almost accidental' or 'not so accidental' Americans might also have a problem, because someone would not be able to meet one of these conditions. For example, he may have lived in the United States until his 20th birthday, or actually had a passport, although he knows by now that he really is an American, so it's not that accidental anymore. We can come up with enough cases in the Chamber that are not covered by this proposal, but the real American accident would see this problem disappear if it were adopted. It should at least be the intention of such a letter that it should be adopted smoothly. I'm getting the answer mixed up a little bit. I'm trying to put together what's connected, but that's not always easy. Mrs De Vries asked what would happen if we did not adopt the treaty. The legislation will then remain intact. Something that regulates the treaty will not be settled. The treaty provides that financial institutions do not have to report directly to the US tax authorities, but to the Dutch Tax Administration. That's gonna save you a lot. The Dutch Tax Administration gives this to the American authorities in a coordinated manner. That's gonna save you a lot. Without that treaty, financial institutions will be required to report immediately to the IRS, in this case in Curaçao, because that is where we are talking about issues that need to be reported directly to the IRS. If they do not, they will be made very difficult to do business. A withholding tax will then be charged on all payments to those financial institutions. That means as much as they're not in the world anymore. This treaty does not provide for the legislation that we find so illogical in this Chamber to be introduced. It only regulates that the sharpest edges in the handling go off. That makes it a little easier for parties but certainly not more fun. Mrs De Vries is right that there is a fixed foot in it. So under €50,000, financial institutions are not obliged to report on an American and pass on the data. Of course, it is easier for financial institutions not to keep that limit, because then you do not have to check if something is below or above €50,000. However, there are financial institutions in the Netherlands that use this limit, so they do not pass on this data below that limit, but there are also financial institutions that do. It is therefore a trade-off between service level and cost. You're gonna make a lot of money if you use the border. On the other hand, in terms of service provision to possible accidental Americans, it is again less. It is up to financial institutions to decide for themselves whether they apply this limit. It is, of course, up to taxpayers and account holders themselves to decide which bank they choose on that basis. Mr Omtzigt also asked how citizens with American nationality would be informed on Curaçao. All financial institutions in Curaçao have pointed out to their account holders with information campaigns and letters the obligation of financial institutions to transmit this information. Everyone should be aware of this, but that does not mean that it will be easier to process and handle it. Mr Omtzigt gave an example, triggering other speakers. I believe that Mr Van Dijck was also concerned. Curaçao is taxed on all kinds of different things. There are cases where the Dutch tax legislation is lower than the equivalent US tax. This is the case, for example, with profits on their own homes. The profits in America are subject to capital taxes and not to us. So it hasn't been taxed here yet. If a Dutchman suddenly discovers that he is American, then he will have to pay tax on that profit. It'll happen to you, because you didn't know it, but it turns out it is. In other words, everyone is informed about it, but that does not necessarily make it more manageable. We don't know how many people we're talking about. The most rugged quote in this debate comes from Mr Omtzigt, who says very generally: the Dutch Government does nothing, knows nothing. I'm gonna get a tile made of that. The Dutch government does a lot of things, but the Curaçao authorities don't know how to cough up this number. We are talking about citizens of Curaçao who, by this definition, are American nationals or who have a green card. And that is not in the systems and therefore there can be no clarity about that. There is simply no record of that. I can tell Mr Van Weyenberg that it is certainly possible to open a bank account. This was also discussed with the Dutch Association of Banks. I will say with precision what the clause that goes with it means, because it gets an 8 and not an 10. It is not the case that the Dutch Association of Banks has said that you can go to any Dutch bank or financial institution. The commitment is that Dutch Americans always have plenty of opportunities to open a bank account or use financial services. It does not mean that all counters are automatically opened, but it does mean that the Dutch Association of Banks has really promised and arranged with its members, that there are plenty of possibilities. A lot of questions have been asked about CRS. These questions have been asked by Mr Merkies, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg. This is actually a very different subject, so I have to grab Mr Merkie. But I'm on his side. Unfortunately, FATCA is not primarily intended to detect tax avoidance in general. The real issue is that the US authorities want to collect their taxes. That's just another thing. Let's just say it's a subtle difference. CRS is intended as a global mechanism to prevent tax avoidance in all directions, so that people, for example, do not hide their savings somewhere. A lot of sensible questions have been asked about this. I can give an answer to some of them in general, but I will not allow them to do so. This is actually a subject in itself. So let me just get this straight in a separate letter. This is about the latest state of affairs. Yes, data is already being exchanged with the United States, but that can also be done with a little more precision. Panama competed first, then it didn't, and now it does. I'm gonna put that on paper in all detail. That'll be a separate CRS note. The exchange of information is rightly considered very important in this house. That is a moving whole, of which I will put the final stand on paper. Otherwise it'll all get a little sloppy. I had prepared myself for this debate, but not for a CRS debate. So I owe this to the Chamber. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about data protection. The data is protected, including through US law. There is a paragraph in the US tax legislation that is similar to our tax legislation and data protection. It also works on the information that the United States receives from other countries, for example from us or from Curaçao. In this room we all find that there are curious outcomes. Mr Omtzigt mentioned the house. Mr Groot was also triggered by this. You say, "Well, there's got to be something we can do about that." That is the Dutch politician's drive for action. Here that is simply no further possibility. In any tax treaty, the United States retains the right to tax its own citizens. The real assessment is that there is no perspective that we can do anything about it through the treaties. So there will always be cases that we find undesirable. However, now that the United States has announced this through this phenomenal action worldwide and is also acting on it, everyone can take action at a much earlier stage and everyone will explicitly ask what nationality they really want. Is that even the American? Of course, there are advantages to this, but also disadvantages. This is a trade-off that will be made much more aware in the future. Of course, we are now dealing with people who are shocked by the fact that they turn out to be an accidental American.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u15	Tax treaties always deal with exemptions from certain charges. On what basis does the Secretary of State base the view that there is no prospect that the Americans can be persuaded, for example, that American Dutch people who sell a house in the Netherlands will not be taxed again by the American tax authorities? I would like to draw your attention to the principle that property taxes are payable to the country of residence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u16	I base that on the fact that we are an active conversational partner of the US and this has been going on for years. This has, of course, been thoroughly investigated and assessed. We got zero on the record there. This is the honest assessment. I note that this is the second time in this debate that Mr Groot and I have a common wish and I regret to have to be strict on this from the point of view of feasibility. I can only say that it would have been wonderful if we could have arranged it. I come to the various follow-up questions. Mrs De Vries asked why an additional treaty was needed. This Convention was concluded in December 2014 and stated that it would enter into force in September 2015. This was considered too aggressive planning for all kinds of reasons. The Americans, of course, have also slowly found out that this requires a great deal from all their treaty partners. This has also been recognised by the United States. All this has led to a later date. Since the date was in the Convention, it could also only be adjusted by a treaty amendment. There are also other ways of enforcing an entry date, but since the date was in the Convention, it had to be changed in the Convention as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u17	I would like to come back to the example of the sale of a house, which Mr Omtzigt cited. The Secretary of State very easily agreed to this by saying that there is nothing to be done about it and that this is the case. He advised the Americans in the Netherlands not to sell their house too quickly, because they would then be attacked in the United States. Are there any other things like that? I have also read, for example, that as an American in the Netherlands you may not have an investment mortgage or that you may be attacked in America if you pay too little income tax elsewhere. For example, if you work on Bonaire, you pay much less income tax. That is, of course, interesting information for all the people involved. Perhaps this point is too extensive to be dealt with orally now, but could a list be drawn up of all the issues that are being amended in this bilateral treaty within the framework of the double taxation convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u18	I have said that it is not possible to eliminate these cases in the treaty. It is also not possible to tell with great precision which people could be affected by something. It is possible to mention a number of generic cases where you run the risk of running into this, such as the sales profit on a house. To my knowledge, this is well explained on the various sites on which information is given about this event. If that is not the case, I will provide some supplement, albeit in very generic terms. In any case, it concerns some investment products and, in particular, it also concerns low-income people who are taxed less in the Netherlands than would be the case with the same income in the United States. I can name such cases in very generic terms. I think it would be more useful if we included that in the existing information channels than in a letter to the Chamber. I will urge you to do so, but I will, of course, first see if it is not already there by chance, because I do not know that out of my mind. In any case, I think it is a good suggestion from Mr Van Dijck, who is actually asking me what exactly the red flags are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u19	That's what I asked. I thought this was a treaty with the United States to prevent double taxation, but apparently there is also something like a switch-over clause, because if I pay less tax here than in the United States, that could be corrected. That's news to me. I thought there was a treaty in the original sense, and that would mean that if I pay taxes here, I would be exempt from it in America. However, if there is a switch-over clause, I would like to hear it, also for the people of Curaçao, Saint Martin, Bonaire, Saba and Saint-Eustatius. That's where a lot of Americans live, including Bonaire, and they're scared shitless when they hear this. That has nothing to do with black money, but with the fact that they may have a second house there to enjoy the sun for six months a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u20	There is not a switch over clause, but something much more material, namely the US tax legislation in force. There is therefore no double taxation. The Treaty will enter into force if, for example, there has been no tax in the Netherlands or Curaçao on something that would be taxed in America. So the American citizen actually pays all his taxes in America, but he is allowed to deduct Dutch taxes per tax type. However, once one charge is higher than the other, you can face unfortunate surprises. In itself, I find it striking that Mr Van Dijck calls it a switchover clause. That's how it works, but it's really just American tax law. That's the way it is. This means that there are cases where the US tax is higher than in the country of residence. I'll look into it, but I do it for the Netherlands and not for Curaçao. It is nice to have to defend state law with the Kingdom, but it is up to the Curaçao Minister of Finance to provide his own information and to put red flags before his tax legislation. I would therefore like to take up Mr Van Dijck's suggestion for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u21	By "Netherlands" do you mean European Netherlands, Bonaire, Saba and Statia?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u22	No, by the word 'Netherlands' I mean the Netherlands and not the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u23	Yes, but Bonaire, Saba and Statia also belong to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u24	Those are special congregations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u25	It is true that they have their own tax legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u26	They do indeed have their own tax legislation. Fantastic! Then we have fiscally seen four Dutch. I'm gonna have to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u27	There are five tax Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u28	I do not understand why Mr Omtzigt laughs in this debate only when he has bad news to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u29	The number of tax areas is exploding, so it is indeed difficult to keep track. However, I am still waiting for the answer. What parts of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which the President has just given a comprehensive list of, have a tax treaty with the US, at least to some extent preventing such problems from occurring?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u30	I merely have something to say about the possibility that each country of the Kingdom may make individual agreements. Sint-Maarten wants that too in the long run, but Aruba is not considering doing so, but that is not entirely the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u31	No, that's not the answer that reassures me. Curaçao was part of the Netherlands. Then Curaçao hitched a ride on the tax treaty between the Netherlands and the United States. For about a year we have a tax regime between the Netherlands and Curaçao. That is a kind of tax treaty between two countries within the Kingdom. This means that Curaçao no longer has a tax treaty with the United States. Add that the FATCA rules are introduced. Moreover, we do not know how many people have a green card or American nationality. So you don't know anything, but you know one thing for sure: it's going to miss out on a lot of people. What preparations has the Netherlands made? The banks have been informed, but not the citizens. What risks do these citizens face and how do they know that they are at risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u32	Is this question now about the Netherlands or one of the other countries within the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u33	This is about Curaçao. It is good that the Secretary of State asks this question. Curaçao has no tax treaty with the United States. The Secretary of State does not know how many people on Curaçao have a green card, or American nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u34	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u35	We do not know what taxes are now accepted by one country or another. So we do not know anything, but we know one thing for sure: a category of a few thousand people in Curaçao is in terrible trouble because of this FATCA legislation in the United States, but not because of Dutch legislation. What has the Dutch Government done to ensure that these residents of the Kingdom of the Netherlands do not end up in a Catch 22 situation where they cannot move?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u36	I just reported that the first battle of communication has been struck. That was done by the government in Curaçao. It has done so in all kinds of ways and people have pointed out that this is happening. I mentioned a campaign, a letter and actions by financial institutions. I have just promised Mr Van Dijck that he will make sure that there are recognizable red flags for the Netherlands, so that everyone knows where he is in that zone, but to do the same for Curaçao is really up to Curaçao. It is not up to me and it would be extremely awkward, on behalf of the Curaçao Government, to tell the people of Curaçao where they might be at risk in relation to American legislation. That is the responsibility of the Curaçao Government, which has provided appropriate information on this matter, in order to announce that this American legislation will be enforced in this way. I have little on offer in terms of additional information campaigns on Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u37	Will the Netherlands hang out with Curaçao to ensure that Curaçao can ride along with relevant countries on the conclusion of tax treaties? This does not need to be done with Ghana, but cooperation with Venezuela, the United States, the Netherlands, France, especially for Saint Martin, of course, would be useful for an important country, so that there is a tax treaty with the most relevant countries. I can imagine that the countries concerned would not be able or should not be able to set up an entire department within their Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u38	I have regular contact with the Minister of Finance of Curaçao in order to provide support and knowledge development in a variety of areas. Those are very pleasant conversations. I do not know whether it is specific in the area of treaties, but there is an open dialogue that allows for all kinds of help and information exchange. I do not know whether the Curaçao government has any difficulty in concluding treaties at all, but we are now very far from the debate. I stand here on behalf of the Foreign Minister, who talks about FATCA on behalf of the Curaçao Finance Minister. But the question is about the ability of the Curaçao government to conclude treaties with other countries. I do not have the answer to that, but the debate is not about that either. However, I would like to reassure Mr Omtzigt that there is active contact between the tax authorities of these two countries, but also between the directors of these two countries, on all kinds of technical assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u39	I think that you are formally standing here on behalf of the Kingdom Government, but that is quite aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u40	The last few days I've been dealing with such a variety of subjects, that I've really wondered who I'm actually acting on. I was just standing here, I believe, on behalf of Minister Kamp. Is there a difference in content between the FATCA Netherlands and the FATCA Curaçao? The Treaties aim at the same thing: to facilitate the exchange of information with the Americans. There are different models for this and in both cases model 1 is embraced. There are specific exceptions, which are linked to the pension sector. It is of a very different nature and was not covered by American legislation, which allowed the exchange of information to be changed, but essentially the same logic has been followed. I think I've run out of questions. The CRS questions are still coming, including reciprocity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u41	I do not see any colleagues jumping up, so we can move on to the second term of office. At the request of Mr Omtzig, I shall suspend the sitting briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u42	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the replacement of the State Minister for Foreign Affairs for his first answer. We still have a problem. We are now doing a bit lightly about FATCA, but I feel that problems are about to arise for residents of Curaçao, who have no idea what is ahead of them. We have also been able to see those inhabitants in the Netherlands. It's not about black savers. It's about the American accident. I very much encourage the Secretary of State to really raise the issue of tax treaties with his colleague from Curaçao and perhaps his colleagues from Aruba and St Martin. In certain cases, we can just hang out together. Perhaps they want to get rid of a number of treaties. It's just got to be possible. This simply benefits the inhabitants of that part of the Kingdom. I'd like to get a commitment on that. Because we have handed over that note and I expect some problems as well, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas residents of the Netherlands should not be faced with double taxation in several countries without cross-border activities;]] [[noting that Dutch citizens of American nationality are required to make tax returns and pay taxes in both countries, not only for people of American nationality but also for a slightly larger group;]] [[noting that double taxation is not always removed by the tax treaty between the Netherlands and the US and that there is no tax treaty applicable between Curaçao and the US;]] [[calls on the Government to endeavour to avoid double taxation for residents of the Netherlands, both from the European part and from Curaçao and other parts, for example by having two nationalities;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber and the States of Curaçao within 10 weeks of the concrete results achieved by the Government to resolve this problem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Aukje de Vries and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34371-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u43	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers, though I still have a lot of answers to get. In the previous debate on FATCA, I also asked questions about Common Reporting Standards. They are closely linked, because they are both about the exchange of information to deal with black savers. In particular, in the context of the agreement with America, we discussed reciprocity. We deliver to the Americans on the basis of FATCA. Then the question is, what are the Americans going to do? Will they eventually join CRS? As regards reciprocity, the Secretary of State said at the time: this reciprocity is just going to happen; we have no doubts about it. It is a little unsatisfactory if I now have to wait for a letter stating whether it finally came, because that is what it comes down to. It's nice to have that letter, but I want it a little bit more. And what will the Secretary of State do if there isn't? Is he going to include this issue in a letter on behalf of the European Member States, in which he also deals with the problems of the American accident? I assume, however, that reciprocity of information is also an important point. I would also like to hear whether there are any banks that are still refusing customers on the basis of their American nationality, for example when it comes to investment accounts. That is still not clear to me. Are there any banks that say: you are an existing customer; from tomorrow onwards not anymore. Is that still possible? You can say that it is a small bank and you can go somewhere else, but that seems harsh to me. I'd like an answer to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u44	Mr. Chairman. In the last question from the SP about the bank account and the services, especially to seated customers, I can join. That's not quite clear to me either. If you are already an existing customer and you have to go somewhere, then you can face high costs. How does it work out between the different banks when they have to switch? Then I come to my second point about the banks. The Secretary of State has indicated that there is a lower limit of €50,000 and that it is up to the banks to determine whether or not they use it. I'd say just let the banks handle that lower limit. Perhaps that can be highlighted again in a consultation with the Dutch Association of Banks and any other financial institutions, because that can remove concerns and uncertainty from a number of people. In fact, we cannot regulate matters in the tax treaty, according to the Secretary of State. I understand that you are in a negotiating position, but the Americans too will sometimes want something that we have a little more trouble with. I ask the Secretary of State to continue to try to settle matters in the tax treaty if necessary. Mr Omtzigt has already tabled a motion on our behalf and on behalf of D66. We believe that steps should be taken to achieve concrete results. As far as we're concerned, you could do it very unorthodoxly. I understand that our government is in contact with the U.S. government and that there is contact between the tax authorities, but an important player right now is the U.S. Congress. There are people who love the Netherlands, for example those who are involved in the Dutch Caucus. With a number of MPs we visited the chairman, Bill Huizenga; I don't think you can get it much more Dutch. Perhaps that line could also be used to try to keep up the momentum in the U.S. Congress. If help is needed from the Chamber and it would fit better at that level, then we could consider it. Let us come up with creative solutions for these kinds of problems, which are inexplicable to many people and in some cases poignant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u45	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I see a bit of a powerless Secretary of State who also sees that it doesn't really have a pass like there are 40,000 people in the Netherlands who suddenly have to pay taxes on the profits they make on a house. The Secretary of State stands by and says, "Then they've had bad luck." I have another nice example for this Secretary of State. A dga that withdraws its mortgage from the e.g. is not taxed in the Netherlands and may pay dividend tax in the United States. You wonder why we actually have a treaty with America, because America simply says: we tax everything; if you have already paid something in the country where you live, then we may want to settle it, but we will not go beyond that. What about the Caribbean Netherlands? Is the Caribbean Netherlands also covered by the treaty between the Netherlands and the US? That has a 0% Vpb. Are all companies with an American dga going to be hit in America with a vpb of about 35%? In the Caribbean Netherlands, the highest Ib rate is 30%. Are all those people in the Caribbean Netherlands being attacked with an American passport? It is good that there are proposals for accidental Americans up to 18 years old and you name it. I'd give a shit if I were you. How's that going? Is that in Congress, and does it need another tap? That could save all those American accidents that are being caught now, namely a lot of misery. Finally, I look forward to the letter from the Secretary of State on the red flags.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u46	Mr Groot has waived his second term. The Secretary of State says he can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u47	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say to Mr Omtzig that I will give the point of good information, and also Mr Van Dijck's idea of indicating to the taxpayers where the red flags are so that they know when to watch out, to my colleagues as soon as I have consulted them. Questioning shows that Curaçao and the United States do have a tax treaty, since 1948. That's probably a little dusty. That means that Curaçao intends to renew that. As is the case in several areas, the Netherlands is willing to provide technical support to Curaçao. I should like to make it quite clear that there is a limit to what Mr Omtzigt has said. They're separate countries. They can do whatever they want. It could be that, in the tax sense, Curaçao is capable of treaties and agreements that the Netherlands would not be prepared to do. This could mean that the Netherlands should conform to practices in which it does not want to go along or that Curaçao would feel hindered in carrying out the things it supports. We certainly shouldn't do that. However, technical support is in progress in a wide range of areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u48	For the record, this will be a treaty with the Netherlands Antilles because it was concluded before 10 October 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u49	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u50	You spoke of a tax treaty between Curaçao and the United States, but that treaty must then be concluded between the Netherlands Antilles and the US. Curaçao took over on 10-10-10.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u51	No. The tax treaty which then applied to the whole of the Kingdom has now been changed by the Netherlands itself. The treaty also applies to the BES islands, Curaçao, St.Maarten and Aruba. That treaty still applies there, including the BES. I didn't have that kind of insight, by the way. Mr Omtzigt says outside the microphone 'and we will find out in the second term', but is it so strange that we do not have information about the tax treaties of the BES in a debate on FATCA, between America and Curaçao? Mr. Chairman. The motion-Ontzigt c.s. in piece No. 7 Everyone is taken from the heart: do something about it! Mrs De Vries even says: be creative! The motion comes down to: Tom Poes, make up a ruse, do the impossible and do it quickly and report to us within ten weeks what impossible things I have invented. I, too, am impressed by this, but it is not realistic. This has been done for years what we can, not only by the Netherlands, but also by the other at least 100 countries, which are actively struggling with this. By leaving the verdict on the motion to the Chamber, I would suggest that there are still many things possible, that we have been sitting on our backs until now and that we are finally taking action to do all those things that we can still do. That's not realistic. In the technical sense, it is not a question of double taxation, but of where the tax has not yet been paid. That's a bummer and not the reason why I'm dissuading the motion, but I'm not gonna recommend it. Mr Merkies simply gets answers to his questions about CRS. I simply did not understand Mr Merkies' question about the existing bank. He asked me what happened to an existing bank... no, I don't know; I just missed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u52	It's not an existing bank, it's an existing customer at a bank. Can the bank, if you're already there, say to you: yes, but now we have a lot of trouble with American legislation, so we'd rather lose you now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u53	I don't know the answer to that. It seems to me to be a somewhat untruthful situation, but it can happen. The Dutch Banking Association has not guaranteed that no one will ever have to change banks, but that there will always be plenty of options for account holders and buyers of financial products. It could happen, but I haven't heard any cases yet. In this context, Mrs De Vries was concerned whether you could not incur high costs. I don't know how much the cost of switching banks is. I didn't switch banks too long ago. I don't remember high costs, but it was tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u54	Of course, it's not out of the blue. This has happened. I've been notified of this, but I don't know if it's occurred recently. That is precisely the question to the Secretary of State. He did not rule it out, when he said at the time that the big banks no longer do so and that he hoped that small banks would follow. So it wasn't clear to me whether people who already sit by that couch could sit by that couch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u55	The Ministry of Finance knows a lot, but I simply cannot say much about the contacts and switches between specific account holders and specific banks. I don't know. I did not get any complaints, nor did my colleague, the Minister of Finance, who feels responsible for the banking sector. If it's different, I'll let Mr Merkies know. Mrs De Vries calls on me to urge the banks to apply the lower limit. I believe, with the danger that I will be dismissed as a far-reaching liberal, that banks, as commercial institutions, will be able to weigh up whether they are providing a certain service, possibly with a higher cost level, or that they will refrain from providing that service and then perhaps apply a lower cost level. I would simply like to leave that to the banks themselves, but I believe that this debate is being followed well enough from the banking sector, so that Mrs De Vries' appeal towards the banks will be heard enough. Mrs De Vries urged us to continue to make full use of all the possibilities. I'd love to, but I have a call in reverse. Yes, it may be that members of the U.S. Congress, for example, can also exercise influence. That seems to me to be right on Mrs De Vries's path. It is so much easier for her as a parliamentarians to talk to fellow parliamentarians than I would interfere. So let's all do our part. Let's all work together. My appeal, on behalf of Mrs De Vries, to all of you is: keep trying. Mr Van Dijck is talking about it. So far we have had Mr Omtzigt's tile, but Mr Van Dijck has added a little bit to that. "Mightless" I am; "powerless," not even able to just pilot a bill through the U.S. Congress. You're gonna have to admit it. What am I doing here? He owes me the answer to his question about the Caribbean Netherlands. The status of Obama's proposal is that it's in Congress. It needs to be dealt with now and then adopted. Mr Van Dijck's comment, he did not put it as a question, I correct it anyway. Yes, I have promised to see if we can communicate more clearly what the red flags for the Netherlands are. I have said that I will look for existing channels of information for this purpose, but I have expressly said that it does not make much sense to send a letter to the Chamber. I just wanted to process that in the current information channels so it could reach the people who need the information. I don't want to dedicate a separate letter to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u56	One thing's not quite clear to me yet. So there is a bill in the U.S. Congress which would make it much better for those "accidental Americans," which are exceptional cases. But I think there was also a proposal on reciprocity. I do not know if that is the same bill; that was actually my question. The Secretary of State hasn't gone into that yet. Last time, a year and a half ago, he said that the bill was there, that it would all work out and that reciprocity would come about. I haven't really had an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u57	No, but that answer's coming. That reciprocity is not in FATCA. FATCA is a mechanism for making Americans pay taxes in America. So this is about the one-sided supply of data from other countries to America. There's no reciprocity in that. CRS is precisely what Mr Merkies wants to talk about, namely to prevent avoidance by means of information exchange. It's gotta be reciprocal. Their status, with information already exchanged in two directions, is mentioned in that letter, which deals with CRS. This reciprocity applies to CRSs. That's what I'm gonna tell you in that letter. Mr Merkies gets the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u58	Okay, I get the answer in the letter. However, I have also made a request. Is the question of reciprocity included in the letter which apparently goes to America on behalf of several European Member States? I can get an answer, but besides that, I am particularly interested in what the Americans are hearing from us. After all, they do not participate in CRS. They only have FATCA. Otherwise, I have an answer, but reciprocity is still not settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u59	That's another file. First of all, let us not assume that there is such a big problem with reciprocity that several European Member States have to send letters about it to America. Secondly, they are completely different dossiers. FATCA is really a different type of regulation than CRS. They come from different sources, the backgrounds and goals are different, it works differently, the timeline is different and the diplomatic balance is different. So let me dedicate the letter about CRS to CRS. I do not want to mix that with FATCA discussions, not even in the exchange of letters between Europe and the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u60	I do regret that the Secretary of State responds to the motion as he responds. The answer to two questions I asked was precisely the reason for us to table that motion. On the call to think creatively and to see what you can do, for example, towards the American Congress, the Secretary of State bounces the ball back very nicely. That's fine, but the call was to look creatively at what is possible and to see if you can do something through other channels. The same goes for the lower limit of $50,000. The Secretary of State says: I do not think it is liberal to talk to the Dutch Association of Banks about this in order to send out that signal. The cabinet is going to talk to business when it comes to higher salaries, although we are not talking about higher salaries. There is a lot of talk with the Dutch Association of Banks. I think it is very confusing for people who are involved in this, that everyone has a different lower limit. I would ask the Secretary of State, even though it may be unusual, to discuss this with the Dutch Association of Banks in the light of what is often done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u61	I don't know if it's confusing, because most people only have one bank. Let me put it this way. Without wanting to be binding on the banks, I will say that I will ask my colleague, the Minister of Finance, who feels responsible for the banking sector and sometimes also consults with the banks, to deposit this parliamentary wish with the Dutch Association of Banks and to make it clear that there is a desire here to have all Dutch banks apply the same lower limit. Is that how I'm gonna give it to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u62	I see a nod from Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u63	It's getting a little mixed up. I have another question for clarification on what exactly the treaty between the Netherlands and America means. The Secretary of State says: if you do not pay taxes here in the Netherlands on something that you would have had to pay taxes on in America, then America can raise taxes, as in the example of selling the house. But is that why I just came up with this switch-over that, if I did pay taxes on something here in the Netherlands when I had to pay more taxes on that in America, would America be allowed to override that difference? These two things make quite a difference: on the one hand, no tax and on the other hand, increasing the amount of tax to the American level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u64	American tax laws simply determine how much tax you have to pay for what. What if I had to pay 100 on this glass of water in America? If only 60 has been paid for in the Netherlands, you will then have to pay 100 with a deduction of 60 in America. That makes 40. If we raise this figure by 120 to 120, that is very common, because the Netherlands has high taxes like the speaker, and I think I both regret it, then 100 minus 120 will have to be paid. That outcome is negative and then there is no need to pay. In essence, it amounts to the word "uplifting," although the system is not designed in this way. You simply pay American taxes and deduct the tax already in place. So if that's zero, you're gonna have to pay the full U.S. tax. If you've already paid a share, you'll only have to pay the remaining part. In very many cases it will be so that the taxes you have paid in the Netherlands exceed what you owe in America. You won't hear from the Americans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u65	I also think that in many cases it does not matter to the Dutch. However, we are now talking about Curaçao with a completely different tax system. Next week, we'll be talking about IGA Saint Martin. I asked about that, but I haven't gotten an answer yet. IGA Aruba is coming too when we talk about IGA Curaçao. Caribbean Netherlands has very favourable tax conditions in the area of Vpb, income tax and so on. All those Americans who now live on Bonaire can therefore expect a very big attack, when they actually thought in Bonaire.. where they emigrated to have fulfilled all their obligations. So it makes sense to say to every American now: don't go to Bonaire, because you're fucked!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u66	That is why I was so pleased with Mr Van Dijck's suggestion. He said: convey to colleagues that they clearly define where the red flags are. That could be more than the red flags we issue in the Netherlands. It is a very sensible suggestion to point this out to people. You say, "Listen, you can be eligible here and for this, and considering this, and this could cost something, so if you're in this and this position, you have to pay attention. I therefore think that Mr Van Dijck's warning is quite right. I also think his suggestion and solution is very good. I have promised to pass that on to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u67	I have another question about the motion. Was there a commitment or was it taken over? That's not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u68	It's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u69	I heard a promise. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u70	No, the motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-24.u71	Next Tuesday we will vote on the two laws and the motion.
