ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with an introduction. I will then give the answers per Member of Parliament. If other Members of Parliament have asked the same question, I will take it with me. In this way, I would like to sort of classify the answer. The contribution of Members of Parliament already shows that we are dealing with an important and complex subject. The reactions in the Chamber but also in society to the cabinet letter and thus also to the report of the Advisory Committee complete show a broad spectrum of emotions. That is not strange, of course, because the individual decision a person makes to regard his or her life as complete is, of course, the most fundamental one a person can make. That decision affects himself but also his immediate surroundings. For me as Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, but actually for the whole cabinet, the letter before us was the result of a complex and difficult weighing process involving various fundamental values that sometimes compete with each other. First of all, let me tell you who we were looking for when we set up this cabinet vision. It concerns people for whom life no longer has any meaning and for whom it has become too heavy a burden to live on. These are elderly people who no longer see the possibility of continuing life in a meaningful way and in a meaningful form. It's about people who have trouble losing loved ones, their independence, their perspective. These are people who have a feeling of intrinsic and insoluble loneliness, also in the midst of others. These are people who, despite the attention and help of others, do not want to live anymore. It's about independent elderly people. I would like to remove the misconception that has arisen by linking it to long-term care. 80% of the 80-plussers who are four in five live independently at home, but 20% of them, one in five, reside in an institution. To get into an institution, you have to have a condition. The care you need has to be tough enough for that. The people who are involved live on their own and are not sick. That is exactly what this proposal is about. It's about people who don't have a medical basis for their dying wish. They are people who, as they say, suffer from life. As a result, they are not eligible for euthanasia or for assistance in suicide as referred to in the current euthanasia law, the Test Life Abort Act upon request and assistance in suicide. This means that they cannot get control over their own end of life. For the cabinet, the question was how this group's desire could be met. That is also what we had in mind when Mrs Tellegen and a large part of this Chamber asked for a committee to be set up. The committee chaired by Mr Schnabel was set up there. It had the task of advising on the legal possibilities and social dilemmas of helping people who consider their lives to be complete. We sent the committee's insightful and sound report to this Chamber in February. Here too, I would like to express our gratitude for the work done by the committee and for the insight it gives in the problem of completed life. We welcome the fact that the current euthanasia legislation is working well and meeting its objectives. The final conclusion in the report is that the current legal framework offers sufficient scope for the majority of people who consider their lives to be complete. I'm happy about that. However, there is a group that is not covered by the euthanasia law. Because of all the technical possibilities that keep people alive longer and longer, this group will grow. I do not think we can look away from that. It is too simple to think that the void these people can experience can always be filled. I call emptiness by losing the partner, by losing children or friends. There are examples that show that the environment is doing a lot to compensate for this emptiness, but that is not always possible. That's not always possible. In addition, we are concerned with the seriousness of the suffering of these people, the despair and the intense desire for death that can lead people to put an end to their lives sometimes brutally or in a humane manner. After careful reflection and consideration, the cabinet has come to the conclusion that we want to meet this group. The Cabinet considers it necessary to respond to the legitimate desire of people to end their lives in a dignified manner, even if their suffering has no medical cause. The doctor can grant euthanasia upon request in a conflict of duties and out of mercy, but the government can also show mercy by creating the space for the opportunity to die in a dignified manner. Isn't that also a form of civilization? As we know, autonomy is a fundamental value in ethics and law. It is one of the guiding principles in the coalition agreement. Autonomy, self-determination, means that you get the space to shape your life yourself and to make your own choices, and so it also means that people who have developed a persistent death wish are given the space to determine when and how they die. Autonomy, however, is not an absolute value and should be weighed in relation to other values, such as the protection of life. The cabinet feels responsible for this protection and is committed to a general sense of security and protection, especially for vulnerable members of society. However, when people no longer have a life perspective and as a result have developed a persistent active death wish, people for whom life no longer has any value, who consider that their life is complete, that hopeless suffering of life, that is a hollow concept. The vision of the cabinet includes not only recognising this right to autonomy, the right to self-determination, but also the will to shape it under strict rules and conditions. Since it is an irreversible effect, it will have to be clear that there is a wholly intrinsic will, that there is an informed and lasting desire that has been achieved in freedom. A sudden death desired, for example, by sudden heartbreak, after an accident or after loss, will not be considered a competent and lasting decision. It is important that the wish is made voluntarily without pressure from third parties, including family members. It is therefore crucial that objective criteria are proposed to prevent the availability of resources for people who have not made their decision on an informed basis. The choice will not only have to be perceptible but also testable. The cabinet doesn't run for the troops. In society there is a great deal of support for this idea that self-determination should ultimately be possible in the conflict of values. The cabinet is on a very careful path. After in 2010 the citizens' initiative Uit Vrije Wil led to debate in the Lower House, the development of ideas on this issue has matured further in the social debate at this stage. An opinion was requested in 2013, which was delivered in February this year. And no, we have not managed to reach a cabinet position before the summer. But time seemed to me subordinate to the importance of a thought-out and discussion within the cabinet. So we did not want to put this pressure on you to have an opinion before the summer. We took the time to do so and the advice was finished when it was finished. It's as simple as that. We are now announcing in a letter a legislative proposal which will be further developed in consultation with the field. It is a political and socially careful process. This process has been going on since the early 1990s, when the first social debate began. Mr Drion has made an intensive contribution to this. This position is therefore not a robbery. It's not a robbery, but it's a position you can disagree with. That's different. The place that elderly people occupy in our society concerns us all. As a society, we all have a role to play in this. We all agree on that. But this is not a solution for the people about who this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u2	I can imagine that it is necessary to take time to discuss the position and to define the frameworks in which further work is to be carried out with each other. However, I do lack an important framework in the vision proposed to us on 12 October. That's the age. The Minister is again talking about the elderly, as was the case with Nieuwsuur and yesterday on the radio, but the letter does not say that. I do need to know that framework, also because the public debate, the citizens' initiative and the opinion of the Committee of Wise Men on the elderly are going with a dying wish. I would be pleased if this were to become clear in this debate. Where does the age limit lie?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u3	The letter says it's about the elderly. I know that because it has been discussed extensively in the drafting of the position. I shall come back to this question later, because several Members have asked questions about this. I agree with those who wonder whether it is a fundamental choice for the elderly. It is not, of course, because if you grant the right to self-determination to one person, you cannot say that it does not belong to the other. Why was the cabinet's position chosen for the elderly? We think it is very important that we do not anticipate society in this respect, but that we follow society. In the social debate, a lot of people can feel that, especially as medical technology allows us to keep people living longer and longer, there are people who at some point come to the conclusion that their desire for death is stronger than their lust for life. This is also evident from investigations over and over again. That's very intuitive. In society, this is much less noticeable when it comes to a 21-year-old. As a cabinet, we want to follow society rather than anticipate it on medical-ethical issues. That is why we have chosen the position of the elderly. However, we have not defined what the limit is. The next step is to work out the bill. We think it is important to engage in discussions with different parties and to get out in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u4	That consideration is very difficult. An absolute limit also creates border cases and poignant cases and creates pressure on the regime you are going to make. It is clear that it is carefully weighed, but it is also clear that it must be about the elderly. I think this is also important for the public debate. The minister also says it's less sensitive when it comes to a 21-year-old or 36-year-old. But there are people who are 21 or 36 years old and who choose to die horriblely. Why would the government allow the elderly to make that horrible death more human if it does not offer that possibility to 21- or 36-year-olds? Why is there a limit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u5	I have just indicated that it is not a matter of principle. After all, you cannot argue it in principle. You can argue the importance of following society in medical-ethical themes. A number of Members have indicated that this has taken hold of society, but I do not recognize that image at all. In fact, research shows that society is actually far beyond the law. Is that bad? No, that's okay with these themes. We do think you should stay in line with this. Precisely the sensitivity has given us the key.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u6	The Minister states that the sensitivity is one side of that. I also strongly agree with that, but that the testability is another side. We've come to talk extensively about the testability. I also asked if it was possible at all. But if the cabinet says that it is following the social trend and that it makes it possible for the elderly, which is essentially arbitrary, then I would like to ask whether we are not also opening up to young people. Would we not also exert pressure on society as a whole if we were to create the opportunity for the elderly to see aid for suicide as an option? I'd like to know how the cabinet views this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u7	I always hate it when we talk about "a sliding bowl" or "open the door" while it's about something we're all here with ourselves. We're legislators. We make laws. We make the criteria. We can therefore determine what needs to be met. Can you always type that in a manual? No, you can't type that out, but you can't do that with the Wet Verkeer's End of Life Act on request and help with suicide. This is also a subjective decision. There may also be a difference between one doctor and another. You actually do that on the basis of basic principles. They will also have to develop. So you will have to deal with that, but in the end the legislator will include the criteria in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u8	At the beginning of her speech, the Minister gave an overview of the process in recent months. I have one more question about that. I understand that the cabinet has taken the time to reach a cabinet position, because this is indeed a sensitive issue. I do, however, miss the Minister's first reaction as to how the cabinet weighed the opinion of the Schnabel Committee. The Schnabel Committee was broadly constituted and came to a unanimous opinion. The cabinet comes to a completely different conclusion. One of the members of the Committee of Wise Men said that we might as well have talked to the wall. What has the Schnabel Committee's opinion been worth and how did the cabinet weigh this opinion in the firm reflection that the Minister talked about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u9	We have taken the time to do so, and we have also weighed it on a great many parts. In our view, we have used the analysis intensively in determining the position we have finally taken. It is not, of course, that, when you set up an advisory committee, you are automatically obliged to take the whole advice from front to back. If you look back at the history of advisory committees, then also parliamentary groups have often taken a different view than the advisory committees set up by the government. It is possible, and that is a good thing, because we are, of course, living in a democracy in which a cabinet and political groups ultimately take their own positions. It is clear that this has been and still is a valuable advice and that there are analyses in it that have played a major role in our position. That's also reflected in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u10	The Minister has carefully considered this opinion and taken it into account in the cabinet position, but when I look at the conclusion, what finally became the cabinet position, that is a radically different opinion from what the Schnabel Committee recommended. I would just like to quote from the report that the possibilities for aid in the case of suicide raise insurmountable concerns from the point of view of safety, security and prevention of abuse. That's a very clear advice, isn't it? Surely the Minister cannot get away with saying that we have reached a different conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u11	I think this is a very strange element in the debate. Can Mrs Dik-Faber tell me whether the Christian Union has always taken on board the advice of the government's advisory committees? I checked, that's not the case, and that makes sense. Mrs Dik-Faber and her colleagues were elected as political groups to make their own deliberations on the basis of such an opinion. In the opinion, the Schnabel Committee says that this is a very small group. We have looked around and had a lot of conversations over all these years. Even if you look at the civil movement from Free Will you can see that it is not a small group of people, but a strong desire that lives widely in society. We have thought that we should give an answer for that group. It is said that the Law on the Review of Endings of Life still offers room. If that is the case, you should certainly use that space, but we all see that the Law of Review concludes life from a conflict of duties with the doctor. At some point, that doctor can say out of mercy, not out of duty and not because of a right of the sick patient, but out of mercy: I can only resolve this conflict of duties for myself by responding to an actively asked question from someone to die. The law before us is not based on a medical cause. The line we have devised here is not about the mercy of a doctor, but about the autonomy of someone who himself indicates that he is done with life. This autonomy is not an absolute value, but is proportionate to other values indicated in the report. We have all taken this into account in our position, which is that autonomy is the guiding principle. So these laws really differ in terms of approach routes and that is why a different law is really needed. For example, we have tried gradually to indicate that we have had a great deal of experience in the analysis of the Schnabel Committee, but that we have finally reached a different conclusion on a number of aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u12	The Minister and the Cabinet have indeed reached a different conclusion, but I still do not hear in the Minister's reply how she wants to deal with these insurmountable objections which the Committee of Wise Men sees. Of course, the Committee of Wise Men has also looked at elements such as safety, prevention of abuse, the pressures from society that may arise and their possible prevention. But the committee has not seen a solution to this. The committee has come to the conclusion that there are unsurpassable objections if the government takes this step. The Minister says that we are reaching a different conclusion. However, I would like to hear from the Minister what she has done with the opinion on this insurmountableity. This is very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u13	We have come to a different judgement on this. It is possible that Mrs Dik-Faber does not share that view, but it is not true that we did not pay attention to this in the letter. In the letter we wrote that precisely safety, care and testability are important elements to ensure that what the committee describes does not happen. That was also the argument why we did not say that autonomy is so important to us that we would conclude that in future everyone could go to a pharmacy at any time when he wants to go to get the pill of Drion or a pill to die, he could put it on his bedside table and if he is ready to take that pill. Such a decision would not respond, for example, to the safety aspect described by the committee in its opinion. The same would apply to testability. The whole idea behind the rigging of something like a death aid counselor, of having a conversation and a second opinion, of a written statement, of documenting, of final scrutiny by a review committee, stems entirely from the fears that are mentioned in the Schnabel Committee's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u14	The Schnabel Committee's report also shows that the group of people to which this refers is not at all so unambiguous. You can't say: this is obvious, this is completed life. This is also apparent from Els van Wijngaarden's mentioned research. Often lack of sense also plays a role, as well as loneliness and finding it difficult to be dependent. Isn't that a completely different picture from the one the Minister sketches? She talks about a powerful, self-conscious older person who knows exactly when the end of his life has come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u15	No, I don't think that's how it works in practice. My experience is that it doesn't work that way in euthanasia either. There are a lot of people I've unfortunately seen in this process. Very often people say in advance: when I'm at that point, well, then I don't need it anymore. When those people arrive at that point, they say: well, I actually see value in life. So they put that out for themselves. I think that is a natural process. That is how I see this law, which still has to be drafted, not even as something that people will easily use. Research also shows that the desire to make this possible runs right through all layers of the population. You can see that it's not just about highly educated, self-conscious and emancipated people at all. This runs through political parties and it runs through all sections of the population. Then what do you get? People who at first thought that it was time and had a conversation might see a new perspective as a result of that conversation. That would be very nice. You might see that a lot of people who are probably in favour of it now will never use it. For some people alone, the reassuring thought that it may be necessary, is so good that they do not come to it at all. That is indeed not to cut with a pair of scissors, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u16	That reality, which we all know from conversations with people, is so versatile. This is true of old age, where there are so many loss experiences. Sometimes problems also play in relationships with others. Everything that plays a role in ordinary life plays a role here, too. Isn't it an impossible, superhuman task to say: you can and you can't get permission from the government to put an end to your life?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u17	The government doesn't give permission. The government gives space so that people who want it themselves get an opportunity to actually do so in a dignified way. This comes instead of all the horrible things that unfortunately we all have to read about. That's a little desperation. Those people are here. When people pull a bag over their heads, it's desperation, but that's reality. Then you can say, "That's a few." Unfortunately, that is not the case, especially when you look at the situation we are going to as a society as we live longer and longer. People who first died of a certain disease with 70, we now allow them to get over that disease. If we are all getting much older and if the average age moves up, it can result in people saying at some point: for me life is complete, I do not want any more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u18	The Minister is now adding a great deal of circumstances, such as the prevention of unworthy forms of cessation of life, which is also the subject of many young people, given the suicides that are taking place. I find it difficult to put all that together now. My point is and remains that it is a huge change of perspective and there really is a change when we say: mercy is no longer people close and helping with life, but mercy is actually putting an end to life. Don't let someone down, no matter how beautiful mercy sounds, and don't you, as a society, say: we accept that your life no longer makes sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u19	I think we are looking at this fundamentally differently. I think we're abandoning a group of people now. That's how I feel. I just said that there are people who see no other way out than to end their lives in a very unworthy way. However, I am also concerned with people who do not, but who hope that they will be met every day. We can then say: we have to pay more attention to that. We certainly know the people who have been digging into it over the past few years, but there are people who, despite eating with their children every night and despite all the love and care around it, say: everyone has their place, for me life has become more of a suffering and I no longer have that desire for life. I think we should take this group seriously too. That is why we have tried to take a step in this direction with this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u20	At the beginning of her speech, the Minister spoke about the response to the Schnabel Committee's report. She indicated that she needed more time to arrive at a sound position and therefore could not react before the summer and that she had had had talks, as she had done for years in the discussion. What parties has the Minister consulted outside the Ministry to reach its position?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u21	This is a process that has begun with proposals from society, from people who have found something of this and initiated the social debate. In the end, we set up the Schnabel Committee to consult the whole field around it and to come up with a report. We have formulated our position on the basis of that report. Yes, it took us seven months. That's a little longer than the CDA, which came to the conclusion within one hour that this was a careless position. We have needed a little longer time to do so. We write in the letter that this is a sketch on the main lines. If we go further, we will also involve all the people involved, those who have a position and an opinion on this, in the further development of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u22	The Minister probably refers to the publication of the Schnabel Committee's report in February. But if she looks closely, she will see that the CDA hasn't decided within one hour that this was a good report, because of course we'll read the report first. I don't know what the Minister's saying. However, my question was another one, and the Minister is not answering it now. The Minister has taken more time to reach her point of view. We have different views on this. My question then is which parties she has explicitly consulted, outside her ministry, in order to reach this position in the end. Who else did she talk to besides her ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u23	I speak a lot of people, but in relation to this position, I say that it was an internal process of the cabinet. In those seven months the cabinet itself thus had a whole journey. You can understand that this is not just a proposal from the Minister of Health. This is a subject that affects many members of the cabinet. The members of the cabinet therefore also took the opportunity to study this opinion carefully. Then we went along a path together and we had the debate. It was rather an exchange of views to arrive at this position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u24	I'm surprised. So I would like to ask you a question on this point. On the contrary, the Schnabel Committee's report states very carefully how different parties in society think about this issue. You can see the differences. The Minister does not reach the same final conclusion as the Schnabel Committee. It goes one step further. Now that she has taken more time, I wonder why she has not heard all those parties once again to find out what they think of her proposal. Often the practice is that they are involved. Why has the Minister not done so this time, when it is a delicate subject that requires care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u25	The answer to that question is obvious, isn't it? We are not going to do the work of the Schnabel Committee again. She has produced a solid report in which all this has been well put together. In the end, it is a political proposal that has gone to the Chamber. We have said that these are the main points and that we are going to take a further step along these lines. This is a journey of years. I did not refer to one hour before the Schnabel Committee, but I said that within one hour you had given your response to my twelve-spot letter. In that letter there are the considerations to arrive at a different conclusion than those of the Schnabel Committee. That does not alter the fact that this committee did what we asked her to do for our work. On this basis, we have taken a political position and are now following the path towards a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u26	A brief response, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u27	We could, like the Minister, study for seven months on the Schnabel Committee's report. And we think it's a good report. That is why we do not need to change our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u28	...not to read the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u29	The Minister knows that I read almost everything and that I certainly read these letters. If she wishes to make a comment, I would be glad to hear it. I am particularly surprised that the Minister is apparently saying on the basis of the same information that she is going to do something else, whereas the Committee of Wise Men has said that she is maintaining that position. But the minister doesn't consult anyone about exactly how that is done and she also takes extra time. It's so weird. That is why I can imagine that some people say that they feel like they are being robbed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u30	I really find this an incomprehensible conclusion when you see how long this trajectory is going. We just talked about this going on for 25 years. And you can see that the debate continues. I've been a minister since 2010. We have had a debate here on the citizens' initiative from Vrije Wil. After that, I did not say that we would go straight to work or that we would immediately make a legislative proposal. We have said: let society itself continue to discuss the initiative legislative proposal. Finally, a committee has been set up that has also structured all the groups that find something of this in a report. She herself carried out an analysis which I find very valuable. But we have come to different political conclusions. I agree with Mrs Wolbert that the definition of the position is ultimately also a political choice. You can do a hundred investigations, but at some point you choose to take a certain position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u32	What is the time schedule for the further legislative process? I think you should always make such decisions, such legislative proposals, carefully. A normal legal process has been going on for six months. You will then get the consultation, the advice of the Council of State et cetera. I think this trajectory definitely needs this time. In this letter we announced that we will start making a legislative proposal from now on and that we will not do so in isolation, but that we will involve others. So we will continue and draft this bill in consultation with all kinds of field parties. When that is done, it goes to the Council of State, which then needs time to draw up its opinion. In this letter, as a cabinet, we wanted to announce that we are taking the next step in the process, and that step means starting with a legislative proposal. Does the cabinet see opportunities to give people who are dealing with a build-up of age complaints more space within the euthanasia law? The euthanasia law provides room for people who have to deal with a build-up of age complaints, as the Schnabel Committee rightly points out. We believe it is important that the existing scope of the Test Life Abatement Act be used. It is important that this space is also known to doctors, for example. We will discuss with the KNMG how to increase awareness of the possibilities and conditions of euthanasia in doctors. Would anyone who is not yet suffering unbearably be eligible for aid? The starting point is the autonomy of those who have a lasting desire to die. At the same time, it is good to realize that that desire must be considered and also testable and intuitible. It is precisely in order to be able to respond to the values set out very clearly by the Schnabel Committee in its report that it is important to ensure care by setting up such a procedure. A number of spokesmen have asked about the death aid workers. I can follow the argument that you don't necessarily have to have a death counselor with a medical background. Of course, you can discuss this, because this is not about people suffering as a result of a medical condition. Yet we believe that someone has a medical background with it. Why? We want a person reporting with depression to be viewed by someone with knowledge who can say: you're not in the right place, you have to be treated. That is why we have included this medical background. We have not yet turned this into a doctor, because I can imagine that you can have several medical professionals who work on these issues and are better equipped to deal with them. That is why we left this open. However, we have said that there should always be a follow-up study to see what is needed. Those are things that need to be done in consultation with the field. In connection with the euthanasia law, we know the SCEN doctor. That's someone who's been digging into this matter. You can ask another doctor, but in practice a SCEN doctor is consulted very often, who gives the second opinion. Another recital is as follows. If drugs are being administered but something is not going well, there must be someone who is medically educated and knows how to act. Those arguments of course have nothing to do with the death wish, but with the process in which you want to rule things out and want it to go carefully. That is why we have drawn up our sketch in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u33	I can follow that. I was one of the spokesmen who was wondering if you had to be medically trained in order to make such a decision. I do not think that should be the case at every step. I understand that you want to rule out depression, but the effect of a medicine, for example, is well known. Does that necessarily have to be done in that step by someone with a medical background? Once again, I am not yet definitive, but I would very much appreciate it if the cabinet is open and therefore does not say in advance: it must and it will be someone with a medical background at every stage. Is there such willingness?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u34	We put this together with the idea that one person will guide you in it. There is also a treating doctor who will accompany someone in the Life Abort Act. We haven't had a system in mind where you have to tell other people your story all the time. Mrs Dijkstra was right to have looked closely at the trial of the citizens' initiative, but we did consider the following. How do you have to be prepared and educated to fulfil that role, to rule out things that we would like to exclude?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u35	How hard is the wording of this in the cabinet letter? Should it by definition be done in this way, or does the Minister say: I want to get this right, I want to look at all the different possibilities that exist? I'm looking for that last one. I don't want the Minister to say in the legal process: the Cabinet letter already says that I'm going to do it this way. How open is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u36	In the cabinet vision, we attach great importance to someone who is medically educated. That is the position we have reached. We're starting the conversation now with "the field" I always find "the field" a weird word "all kinds of people who have ideas, thoughts and so on about this. It is still a general concept, so not yet further developed, but on that basis it will be more detailed. So we wanted to give the basic decisions in this cabinet letter: what lines will the legislative proposal follow?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u37	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u38	So this is a base. This means that the cabinet is not yet certain that these death aid escorts will by definition have a medical background. The Minister says that this is obvious, but she goes into consultation with the field and comes up with a proposal on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u39	The cabinet position means that the death aid counselor in the bill that we are going to draft has by definition a medical background, but we have not yet worked out what medical background that is. Is that a psychologist, a doctor or a nurse? It is necessary to further define what is necessary in order to fulfil this task properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u40	The minister just said that someone's death wish should be testable and intuitive. At that last moment, I thought, "Who should that be intuitive for?" I have already asked the Minister for a response to the example of someone who does not want to get into the situation and who wants to get ahead of it: he is 95 now, but he does not want to wait a few more years, because it will get worse. I asked the Minister if such a person would be eligible. Instead of the criteria "voluntarily," "consistant" and "considerable," the Minister also calls "intensity." I wonder to what extent that criterion can be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u41	Individual doctors can give different judgements on the criteria we have set out in the Life Abatement Act. This kind of thing is therefore very difficult to determine in advance, but it is very important that the procedure be followed, so that a committee of inquiry can say at the end that there is a written declaration of will, that someone has actually indicated this, that there has been a conversation without family and others, that there have even been three conversations because everyone doubted whether that is impossible that the person concerned has a depression or could otherwise be helped to return the lust for life. It is therefore a question of a careful and verifiable process, so that a committee of review can say afterwards that the steps have been followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u42	I understand the test very well. I have more difficulty with the sensitivity, because this group of people is very much about the autonomous desire of the one with a death wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u43	This is, of course, subjective to some extent. Under laws of this kind, including the Life Abort Act, there will be doctors who will never do this at all. There will also be doctors who will do so under conditions. There's all kinds of gradations in there. We are not going to introduce justice, just as we are not now aware of it by the euthanasia law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u44	Finally, Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u45	This means that the death aid provider...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u46	Yeah, you can't force a person to cooperate in something that that person doesn't support. I wouldn't want to see that any different from the Life Abort Act. Moreover, we have adopted the term 'death aid coordinator'. If there are better terms for that... it's not the term that matters to me. I'm just trying to figure out who we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u47	I'm listening to the Minister. I understand that she is looking for a review framework and that she is looking at people with a medical background, but I am getting confused. It does not want doctors because they have to deal with a conflict of duties: the mercy of the doctor in the hopelessness of suffering leads him to euthanasia. This is a different framework, in which people's autonomy is more taken into account. It's not gonna be a right, but there's got to be someone with a medical background involved. What about the conflict of duties with such a person who has been medically trained?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u48	I wanted to point out that the euthanasia law is based on the conflict of duties that a doctor may encounter in the treatment of his patient, for example that a doctor at some point says: there is no treatment with which I can remove this suffering, there is a request to end life and in that conflict of duties the best treatment I can give is the end of life. There too, mercy is not the only value, for there is also the autonomy of the patient who asks: may I die? Same here. Autonomy is more the guiding concept because there is no treatment relationship or disease here. Autonomy is therefore more leading, but is not totally absolute in the vein of: I want, so there will. If you read the Schnabel Committee's report correctly, you will see that it correctly states that you must ensure that there is a safe society, a society in which people are not forced by family or circumstances. That is why you need to set up a whole review framework, in which you check whether this is voluntary and deliberate, whether there is other pressure on it, or whether this can be solved by, for example, putting people in a different way in a social environment or perhaps by giving someone a treatment with a psychiatrist because he is just depressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u49	In this explanation, which I can follow to some extent, I note that there is a great difference with what the chairman of the Committee of Wise Men, Mr Schnabel, says. He says that the euthanasia law isn't really about medical grounds or a treatment balance or not. When I read Article 2 (1) of the Life Review Act, it says that the requirement is that the doctor "has been given the conviction that there was hopeless and unbearable suffering." It does not say that suffering must be medical, but that the doctor must be convinced of that suffering. If we listen to Schnabel, who has examined this, studied it and looked at it legally, and to the minister, they are not actually saying the same thing. Do we need a new law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u50	Yeah, I think we need a new law. I also refer to page 198, paragraph 5 of the report, which states that the parliamentary treatment of the Life Review Act states that it must have a medical basis. But if you read the whole advice correctly, you see that it indicates that the conflict of duties that plays in a treatment relationship with a doctor is really something other than someone who at some point considers his life to be complete and wants to have the space to end his own life and do so in a dignified way. The government does not participate in this, but it does not create any obstacles. The government gives someone, as it were, the space to fulfill his own wish. That is a really different starting point, because in the latter situation autonomy is the guiding principle, whereas in the first situation it is the mercy of the doctor with his conflict of duties in his treatment. It's also really about a different group of people. This last group of people is not in a situation of concern. It is precisely the characteristic of this group that there is no medical basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u51	However, I have difficulty with the statement by the chairman of the committee that the euthanasia law, the Life Review Act, actually already offers the possibility, especially in view of how it develops, and that you should wait and see. Look also at the End of Life clinic, where the treatment relationship is no longer the core; you can also go there without a treatment relationship. That relationship is basically built up by your death wish. It develops: the accumulation of age complaints, people suffering psychiatricly, onset dementia. The Minister is quite right to say that a new law is really needed and that it is based on a different perspective from the one who assesses it. I'm not quite sure yet. I'm struggling a lot with that. I ask the Minister to take into account that the euthanasia law and the new law will interfere and may undermine each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u52	That's a point you'll, of course, look at thoroughly before you come up with the proposal to make a new bill. If by extending the current law you can solve the problems, it is of course an easier route than a whole new law. If you look at the history of law, at the statements of the Supreme Court and at development so far, then you have to come to the conclusion that the euthanasia law is really different. Furthermore, a doctor chooses to do the best for his patient. The question is whether you can ask doctors to do something completely different from what they have chosen to do with their profession. It's about people who aren't their patients but who consider their lives to be complete. You're supposed to tell that doctor, "Oh, that's gonna be part of your job, too?" Those are really different things. So I think it's justified. In fact, it's important that you don't undermine the euthanasia law. We all think, at least not all of us, but in broad terms, that that is a very valuable law. We should not put pressure on them by asking doctors for what they have not chosen, for which they have not been trained and in which the treatment relationship and the roles of doctors and patients are irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u53	I have a purely informative question. Can the Minister explain again why, on the one hand, she says that the new law must be based on the right to autonomy and, on the other hand, he says that it is not a right for people to claim under the new law? That sounds contradictory. How do these statements relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u54	I tried to indicate in the letter that we know different values. It's not like one value is absolute. The value of autonomy is very important. Self-determination is incredibly important in the way we have drafted our laws and in the way I look at society. But it's not an absolute value. If it were an absolute value, you'd classify it differently. So it's not an absolute value. There are also other values that you must see in connection with this, namely: the security that a society offers to vulnerable people, care and protection of life. Those are also important values. The only thing we have said is that in the review of life, we are based on principles other than those of the new law. That's why we're choosing a new law. However, it is not absolute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u55	The Minister states that with this law she really wants to create new opportunities, opportunities for a group that cannot now go to the current law. At the same time, she stresses once again that it will not be a right. So what is the clarity for people under this new law? Isn't it true that people can just as well come back and say: well, I thought it was settled now, but now I'm back to the mercy of other aid workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u56	But we don't know that right now either for people who want to end their lives because of a disease. They can't go to a doctor and say, "Well, I'm gonna quit and you're gonna have to help me." We deliberately set that up. It is not a duty for the doctor to help and not a right for the person. We just want to respond to a growing group of people who say, "We can all talk about aging in our society with a lot of freshness and energy and say that it's so great that we're all getting older. Well, not for me. For me, as a 94-year-old, it's no longer a desire to grow older. I want to end my life." This wish has often been expressed much earlier. With this law, we are trying to accommodate that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u57	I understand, but it's still a complicated story. On the one hand, the Minister says: in the new law, unlike in the current law, we explicitly assume the right to autonomy. On the other hand, she says: but in this design it becomes again, just like now, no right. I indicated that I do not agree with that line at all, but I ask this question to understand. I think that's a complicated one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u58	It is, of course, because life is complex and complicated, just like these issues. Explaining something absolutely is much easier. Then you say: it's an absolute right. But sometimes you want to nuance because the world is a little more complicated, because we also consider the protection of life to be very important. As a government, we consider that to be our task. We want to offer a solution in a nuanced proposal. That won't be a solution for everyone. You will never come to such a solution as a government, but it is a growing need of a group not to be underestimated. The opinion says that this group is really underrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u60	So the cabinet position has nothing to do with the elections. The cabinet position came to the Chamber when it was finished. It took us a little longer. So we have not been forced by the calendar or by the deadline of a summer recess or otherwise. It's a bill that goes through Cabinets all the time, isn't it? Let us not have the illusion that one cabinet can do this. Whether it's about organ donation or euthanasia, it's legislative proposals that always take years. You'll always have an election. Whether they are Lower House elections, Upper House elections or Provincial State elections; there are elections in this country, fortunately, very often. But that means that with a bill, you're never in a defined period of time. I think you should let it follow his own cadence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u61	I think it's all a little weird anyway. I am very sorry that the Minister has made the choice to put forward this discussion, which is so fragile, as a bomb in the election campaign, especially since the Labour Party says it is not out yet and we do not know whether the VVD will still be in the cabinet after the elections. We do not therefore know with which cabinet and in what proportions a new law should be introduced. So there is also a possibility that that law never comes to the Chamber at all. That is why I wonder why the Minister has chosen to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u62	In 2013 the Chamber asked me to set up a committee to examine how this could be incorporated into legislation. The committee was then set up and started work. The committee also asked for a postponement because it needed more time to come up with a good opinion. That's the advice I got in February. Then you can do two things. Then you can say: if we are not ready before the summer, we will not take a position as a cabinet. I think that's a very strange one, because you asked for your own advice. Then you will take a position on the basis of that opinion. And then I find it weird to say: if you're not ready before the summer, then you take your time until after the summer. These are always trajectories that go through election periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u63	That's not true at all. I can still lively imagine that every time we fell like a cabinet, we started to draw up a list of controversial issues. We would not talk about this because the new Chamber wanted to do so. I do not find the Minister's argument at all convincing, especially when the Labour Party says it has not yet come out. There are not that many groups out there. The Chamber only meets for a few weeks. After all, it will not take until the elections. It's very soon crocus and election recess. Should we then debate this very sensitive issue at the sharpest of the cuts in electoral time? We all see what happens on Twitter, how people attack each other and you name it. Actually, I find this rather untimely. I'm just wondering why the Minister did that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u64	Well, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u65	Let me add a specific question. The minister said earlier "coincidentally it was finished" and "coincidentally I sent it to the Chamber." However, I have a bit of a problem, because three weeks ago we received this proposal all of a sudden. At that time, Secretary of State Van Rijn lay on his back. A debate would be held on the occupation standard. News hours would make a program about that, but the next day it was just about completed life. When we had this very difficult debate here, nobody talked about it anymore. I therefore wonder whether the Minister has sufficiently realised that there may be a next cabinet and that there is something quite different going on in her ministry at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u66	I think that this debate on care for the elderly is not from the last few weeks. That debate has been going on for 30 years. Can't you take a stand on this? Mrs Agema says that I suddenly sent it to the Chamber, but the Chamber has asked me several times where it was and said'hurry up'. At that time I said that the discussion in the cabinet had not yet been concluded. You don't send anything to the Chamber until the conversation's over. It's about something, too. The opinion that has been delivered is rather bulky. Cabinet members would like to read that advice. This is followed by first rounds and a common reflection, and a position is finally taken. I would have preferred to have completed it before the summer, but I think that I should give my colleagues who find something about it time to form an opinion on it quietly. All in all, this process was initiated by the Chamber in 2013. In February I received an opinion and we took six months to take a careful position on this delicate and complex subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u67	I'll tell you what actually happened here. It came on the evening before we had a debate here on the occupation standard. During that debate, a motion of censure might be tabled by the SP. Secretary of State Van Rijn was in trouble because ActiZ did not give IGZ any more information about safety. News hours would devote a program to that. That was suddenly replaced by this subject: life completed. In the meantime, it wasn't about anything anymore. There was also almost no report of the debate with Van Rijn. At that time, ActiZ had decided to provide information. However easy it is for the Minister to say that this is a difficult subject that goes through all cabinet periods, but I would like to say that I have difficulty in getting this on our plate a few weeks before the elections. The Labour Party says it's not out yet and we don't know if the VVD is in a next cabinet. In fact, a lot of groups want to think about this subject even longer rather than have all kinds of heated discussions about it during election time. People just don't deserve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u68	Mrs Wolbert of the Labour Party feels the need to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u69	I hear up to three times...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u70	I have asked the Minister a question!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u71	No, this is a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u72	I hear three times saying that the Labour Party is not out. I think I have said quite explicitly that the Labour Party supports the government's approach. Of course we still have a few questions. However, I do not think that we are the only party to which that applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u73	That also makes sense, because it is a letter on the main lines. Let's face it, we're not sitting a few weeks before the election. We're not a missionary cabinet. We are a missionary cabinet which is still reigning for another six months and which is sometimes even asked: are you not ruled out? No, we're not ruled out; we come up with proposals if we think they're actually full-bodied enough to send them to the Chamber as well. News hours regularly have items about care for the elderly. You could have wondered earlier whether we should send that to the Chamber, to prevent the link to the care of the elderly from being made. That's what happened next. Maybe you could have thought, "Won't we postpone this sooner?" We didn't. We sent it when it was finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u74	Actually, we've got about eight weeks till Christmas. After that, we've only got about eight weeks until the election recess. That's what I mean by "we only have a few weeks left." We know that in terms of a Lower House that's incredibly short time. I would like to point out once again that I find it very strange that, despite the fact that we state that all kinds of subjects fall undisputed as cabinets, we should now discuss this very fragile subject in full glory, even though we have only so little time left and we must be able to make careful consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u75	I would like to point out that this cabinet is just another six months missionary. We'll have elections in six months. If I have to start thinking about everything now "I don't do that anymore," then we're actually already outgoing instead of from the election date. Then I think it would be a shame not to vote now. Not that I would call for that, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u76	Despite the fact that I did not comment on this because I can imagine that the cabinet simply has the time, I find it strange that the Minister says: when it was finished, we sent it. Was there then a Council of Ministers on Wednesday evening after which the Minister decided that she would hold a press conference and that the cabinet would come up with a position on how to respond to the Schnabel Committee's report? That's not true. It was finished. The Minister has chosen to present this to Nieuwsuur. That's her right. But saying she sent it to the Chamber when the cabinet was done with it can't be true. Then she should have presented it at Nieuwsuur on Friday night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u77	No, there is an exchange of views in a cabinet. This took place on the Friday before the Wednesday on which the position was expressed. In that exchange of views, comments were made that had to be incorporated and given a place in the position. So I couldn't send it on Friday. I wish I could, but I couldn't. We had to change things. Then I looked at where I could give an explanation. I thought it would be useful to explain something like this when I brought it out. I chose Nieuwsuur for that, but not with the idea that I would have done it on Wednesdays when I could have done it on Fridays. It just wasn't finished Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u78	I suggest that you continue to answer the questions that remain. I don't know how far you're about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u79	Of course, a lot has been discussed. The question is whether we want to review the reaction to the Schnabel report. It seems clear to me, also given what I have brought here so far, that I am not prepared to do so. It is a well-considered position that has not been taken in the afternoon. The cabinet does not want to ignore those who have a life that no longer has any value for themselves and for which we cannot offer an alternative. Why should we not first investigate why people want to die and then, if necessary, change the law? Autonomy of the person with a death wish is the starting point. It is up to the person himself to determine the background to that death wish. The backgrounds can of course be incredibly diverse. The background to the death wish will also be discussed extensively in the conversations with the death aid provider. If there are other possibilities, they will have to be explored before suicide aid can be discussed. Because the backgrounds are diverse and complex, I do not see any added value in the first specific research. Of course, all kinds of parties will be involved in the preparation and preparation of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u80	My interruption is specifically about this point. The Schnabel Committee, in addition to the opinion on which we have debated a great deal, has issued two other opinions. It has advised that further research should be carried out into the prevention of a completed life. It has indeed found that these are individual questions: so many people, so many situations. But they have said: do everything to prevent people from experiencing their lives as completed; investigate them and come up with targeted policies for the revaluation of old age, the acceptance of old age and the improvement of self-confidence. The Minister knows the list from the report, but I read so little about it in the letter. Does the Minister want to get to work on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u81	Yes, we indicated that in the letter. I would call it "valor of old age," because I really think it goes too far to call it "revaluation." After all, you would say that there is no appreciation at all. Fortunately, that is not the case. Appreciation of old age is a very important aspect. The government cannot do this alone. Society as a whole has a role to play in this. Everyone has their own responsibility to the older people around them and has a role to play in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u82	Sure. Politics can't do this alone. This is also a question for our society. But the whole of the letter is mainly about the possibility of helping with suicide. Only in half an A4's is briefly outlined what the cabinet intends to do in terms of preventing completed life. To be honest, I think that is in stark contrast to the comprehensive speech on suicide aid. That is why I ask the Minister once again whether she is going to make a policy plan on this issue. Does she come up with more than what is now in the cabinet letter? Does she want to have targeted research on it? We need to know more about what people experience when they say that their lives are complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u83	This letter is a letter on the main lines. It is a sketch and much of what is in the letter needs to be worked out, including with regard to the legislative proposal. In the letter we indicated what we are doing with the committee's opinions. Of course, this has not been discussed further, as this will be done further along the route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u85	Can we not wait for further developments in practice first? I think I just answered that. How do death aid counselors determine that there's no outside pressure? This will happen in the same way as with the present euthanasia, namely by talking to the person and by looking closely at the desire. Where'd it come from? How did it arise and are there any other options possible? Why is there no compensation for life support? It is very good that we are not only talking about this in the Chamber, but that we are also thinking about it in society and that there is good information about all the alternatives to finding meaning. The coalition From Meaning to the End looks at the way in which the conversations about the end of life are conducted and includes alternatives. That coalition also gets a grant to do that job. I also think that this is something that people themselves designed. One person is accompanied in the church, another in a mosque, a third in a temple and a fourth by the Humanist Covenant or its surroundings. That's not something the government itself fills out. Is there room for exploring several possibilities in terms of implementation? We have described in the letter how we intend to shape the legislative proposal. Of course, we do so in consultation with and with the involvement of other parties. In addition to autonomy, the protection of life is also a principle for us, not only in the coalition agreement but also in the letter. In the letter you can see very clearly that the cabinet feels responsible for this protection and that it is committed to a general sense of security and the protection of vulnerable members of society. We are also committed to ensuring that people feel appreciated and not isolated. Suicide assistance can only be provided if there is a request from the person himself and if the request is made without the directing influence of third parties. It must be an intrinsic wish. The ability of the person concerned to choose the end of his or her life is essential. A new legal framework, like the euthanasia law, will have to ensure maximum care, testability and transparency, so that everyone in society can feel safe. It is crucial that standards are drawn up to ensure that resources are not made available to people who do not act properly or under pressure from others. So not only autonomy is important, but also guarantees. Hard limits are then inevitable. There will have to be a request of its own that is voluntary, well-considered and persistent. That's under review. We have already discussed an age limit. It should never be your own doctor, not even in a nursing home. How do I feel about that? The death aid worker must be independent and will have a medical background. An additional guarantee in this context is that an independent death aid provider, a second expert, also assesses the request. I'd like to point out the connection to the nursing home. People are usually or actually always in there because they have a medical basis for that. Has the Handleiting written euthanasia request turned out well enough, even for less assertive people? We've spread these hand-outs really widely, through the government, through the website, through the KNMG. It wasn't just about reaching out to civilians. We also wanted to draw doctors' attention to the possibilities and, above all, to encourage people to think about it and talk about it with their environment and their doctor. What other possibilities do I see in this respect? We have been talking to the KNMG for a long time to see how we can highlight this even more. At some point you have exhausted the possibilities, but I would also like to see if it is sufficient in the training of doctors, for example. With that hand-out we really tried to give it a lot of publicity. What actions are we thinking of to further improve the euthanasia law? The law is currently under review. The results of the evaluation plus the mortality study are expected in the summer of 2017. On the basis of the results, further actions in this area will be considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u86	Much has already been developed with the KNMG and we are now looking at what can be done better in the courses. Then I think it would be wise to agree that this point is taken into account in the evaluation. Does something change in the training and if so, what then? Only then can we determine whether there is movement in it and if so, in which direction. Is that what the Minister wants to take with him in those evaluations? Then it is not only the intention, but it can be determined, as far as possible, whether there is anything changing in that training and, if so, what.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u87	I don't know how far they're going with that, but I'll ask you to take this, if there's any way to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u88	That's exactly what I wanted to hear from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u89	Then we also prepared a brochure about your end of life in good time, in collaboration with the elderly's associations and patient organisations. We have also tried to disseminate this kind of information through these channels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u90	Mrs. Leijten, has there been a question left?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u91	Yes, Mr. Chairman, there are two of them. First of all, the death aid counselor, the aid worker, the death watchman; there are all kinds of terms going around. In the letter I see "death aid worker." It is specially trained to test the desire for help with suicide. That struggling with life can lead to that wish, but wrestling with life doesn't have to lead to that wish, but at the moment there is no attention to that struggle with life. I have asked the Ministers to give consideration to this. I call that person death aid worker or life aid worker. We say to people who struggle with life and do not yet want to go to a request for help with suicide: that is a private matter. However, once you know you want to die, the government will come along. Is that balanced? Does the government find that balanced?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u92	In addition to the fact that we have prepared this brochure on the end of life, I have just said that we are also providing subsidies from VWS to enable us to discuss questions relating to options and other options. In addition, you have the church, the mosque, Humanitas and others, your own environment, where one can ask his existential questions and talk about them. That certainly applies to the private situation. That's gonna be different for every person. From VWS we also subsidise that conversation. That commitment also involves all religious and other movements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u93	It struck me that someone said to me: I cannot discuss the struggle with life, but the way out of life is. It is not sufficiently known that you can discuss this without financial thresholds. It is nice if you are a member of a church association or if you can go to the mosque or the rabbi, but of course there are a lot of people not religious. Is there a sufficient knowledge of where these people can go with general practitioners and others? And is that always without a financial threshold?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u94	Of course, that depends on where you're looking for that support. It is not obvious that this support is initially sought from the general practitioner or a district nurse, because it concerns people who live independently, are not sick and otherwise think about the life and meaning of life. There are religious movements that pay attention to this and open the door to it, but there are also non-religious institutions and groups that want to talk about it. That is often not medical, and you should not medicalize. I have just indicated that we support this financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u95	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u96	I think that when you appeal to religious institutions about the meaning and value of life, there is always a different way out from the call for suicide. That may not always be the case, but it will be the case more often, precisely because of the religion behind it. People who do not have this possibility can report to the general practitioner with problems of meaning. They're gonna be there too, because the GP's the one you're gonna talk to. I don't think it's clear enough that people can go anywhere. I already told the minister that it struck me that someone said to me: I could not talk about the struggle with my life, but when I made a request to end my life it could. Can the Minister promise that people with this struggle prior to the request can enter into that conversation with the partner of their choice and be aware of that possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u97	But the question where one would like to have that conversation, and also the nature of the questions themselves, is of course very much dependent on the person. I have just indicated that the coalition From Meaning to the End is a broad group in which all kinds of groups are united. We give them a subsidy to offer and facilitate this. That's what happens from the government. Of course, society also offers an opportunity to do so from all kinds of groups. It is therefore important that people be referred to where they feel the best at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u98	I have also asked the government to consider whether we can get more clarity on why people come to the conclusion that their lives are complete. What struck me precisely in the report of the Schnabel Committee, but also in the research of PhD student Els van Wijngaarden... I understand that the Minister will receive her PhD research... is that that question can indeed have very relational causes. I think it is important, also in the course that the Minister continues in consultation with all kinds of civil society organisations, that we try to answer the question as to why a parent comes to the conclusion that his life is complete. Is the Minister willing to do or have that investigation done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u99	I do indeed intend to receive that PhD research, subject to parliamentary debates, as I always say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u100	Is there a debate on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u101	No, but there can always be a debate about it. In principle, therefore, I intend to receive it. I also think this is a crucial element in the conversation you have with a death aid counselor. The causes can be so diverse! That conversation must show whether there are other solutions, because such a conversation does not have to lead to the end of life. It can also lead to referral to a doctor where you actually belong. It can also be seen that there are other options, so life gets meaning again. Then you can decide to work on those other solutions. I think it is important that in that lead study, in that extra study of such a death aid counselor, there is also attention to the possibility of bringing people into the right place if termination is not the issue. This is an important part of the work that a death aid counselor should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u102	Finally, Mrs Leijten. There is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u103	Yeah, I know, but I'm still asking for something else. Of course, we expect from that death aid provider that the outcome will not be established before the conversation is started, just to put it so loudly. Of course it must be in training, but I am concerned about the step forward. We are going to assess whether or not legislation is necessary. I read that the Committee of Wise Men and Els van Wijngaarden find that suffering, however difficult it is, has to do with the environment. If greater quality social research shows that we do not need that law, but other investments in our society, that is also relevant to me. Is the Minister prepared to do that investigation? She's gonna have to make the law, too. At the same time, she could at least do that research. How do elderly people come to this wish? What factors are involved? What relational matters play a part in a completed life?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u104	However, I am opposed to the fact that it is not recognized that there is a group that, whatever we do, has a death wish. Whatever policy we make and whatever we do as a government, they themselves come to the conclusion that life has become unbearable for them. If someone who does not belong to that group should also do everything we can to prevent anyone from being eligible, but the principle underlying this letter is the recognition that life has actually been lived for some people, except that they have not yet died.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u105	I'd like to make room in the Minister's agenda. So let us ensure that there is no debate when Els van Wijngaarden's PhD research is offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u106	I'll hold you to that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u107	That would be very nice. My question concerns death aid workers and life aid workers. Yesterday, a motion from me and the CDA Group was adopted by the Chamber. It also underlines the importance of mental care. Older people, in particular, may have to deal with existential issues. That is a difficult word and a difficult theme. The motion was specifically about nursing homes. Does the Minister recognize that this isn't just happening in nursing homes? Does she recognise that this also applies to the large group of elderly people who still live at home? They may have to deal with existential issues. Does the Minister recognise that, in addition to society, the government has a role to play in facilitating this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u108	Yeah, and so does the government. But I can see that not everyone knows the way. So we need to get better at it and be able to make that public. How do you get in touch with that to do your story?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u109	I would like to think along with the Minister on this point. In our country, we have established community teams everywhere. Is it, for example, an idea, according to the Minister, to work with a form of district pastorate? I can see that in the south of the country is already emerging. There are also networks outside churches, but with the involvement of churches and other organisations. The aim is to reach people who do not know how to find their way to an agency. Are these ideas the Minister also wants to look at?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u110	In general, however, I would like to look at how we better disclose what is going on for people who need it. However, I would like to leave it open how we shape it, because someone with a Muslim background will want guidance other than someone with a reformed or secular background. But there are opportunities for that. However, we can see that this is not yet sufficiently known. So that's part of something that needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u111	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contributions in the first term. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, and I myself, outlined in the letter the outline of a possible legal framework for the abolition of the criminality of suicide aid, and the elements that we believe should be part of it. I would like to stress that we will, of course, continue to talk about this precise impact and that, as far as I am concerned, this debate is a good start. It is, of course, very important that a careful, safe, expert and verifiable practice is created, similar to the euthanasia practice of the euthanasia law. It is a new legal framework. It must therefore contain very clear and specific criteria to ensure this. It must be a consistent, voluntary and considered request from the person himself. That person must be willing and there must be unbearable and hopeless suffering of life itself. In our view, the structure that should allow for a verifiable practice should be comparable to the structure we know of euthanasia. That structure is a good system of control and supervision, as the Schnabel Committee concludes. The system has been designed in euthanasia legislation and has proved to be very valuable. It would therefore be strange if we did not join that system. In the case of completed life, this means that the request must be properly evaluated by a death aid counselor in advance on the basis of objective criteria and a second test by an independent expert. The request and its assessment shall be well documented in a dossier. This will support the process followed by the death aid officer and the independent expert, and the outcome of that careful process. Transparency is guaranteed only in this way and with this form of dossier. Ex post review by an independent committee is then necessary to ensure that the requirements are actually complied with. This will also allow action to be taken in situations where they are not complied with. As with euthanasia, criminal law will be the final stage in completed life, in cases where the requirements have not been met. The Public Prosecutor's Office has a fundamental role in law enforcement in the protection of human life. The Public Prosecutor's Office assesses in individual cases where there has been no rule of law whether a real criminal charge can be made. Although the opinion of an independent committee is always an important starting point, the public prosecutor ultimately has an independent role to play in that assessment. For the sake of equality of law, it is important that it is clear which criteria are examined in advance and ex post. In conclusion, with our vision for the possibility of helping with suicide in completed life, we, as a cabinet, have set the course for future legislation. In our letter we outlined the outlines of the safeguards that we consider important for careful, transparent and verifiable implementation. We look forward to further discussions with the Chamber and, of course, with the field. In this context, Mrs Leijten asked which organisations were involved in the preparation of the cabinet response. In my case, of course, that applies to the Public Prosecutor's Office, in this particular case the College of Prosecutors General. This has indicated that the D.A. has that fundamental law enforcement role in protecting life and that it attaches importance to the fact that that task is anchored in any system, as is the case with euthanasia. In particular, the College has stressed the importance of these objective review criteria, which will enable the Public Prosecutor to assess whether or not there is a criminal charge. Of course, it remains a fact that criminal law is a final part of a careful procedure, as is the case with the euthanasia we know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u112	Unlike the VWS Minister, the Minister for Security and Justice says: I have already consulted other organisations, including the Public Prosecutor. Is there not the fear that it is very difficult, looking at the Schnabel Committee's report, to indicate objective criteria in these situations? Was the prosecution also positive about this cabinet proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u113	It is precisely as I have just said that the prosecution has indicated that it is important to find appropriate and verifiable objective criteria for the legislation. That is also the starting point of the cabinet letter: we also believe that we should have these objective, verifiable criteria. Of course, this is an issue which the public prosecutor will also continue to address in the formal role that it always has in legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u114	But what was the preliminary conclusion of the prosecution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u115	Well, the prosecution has, of course, indicated, exactly as I say, that it is very important that those objective, verifiable criteria are there to enable him to do his job well. Since there is not yet a definite proposal to this effect, it cannot be expected that it already has an opinion on the matter. But, of course, the prosecution considers that it is essential for his work to have these objective, verifiable criteria in place. Then I refer to euthanasia practice, where we see that consideration has been made for years. The Schnabel Committee notes that this is going well. Despite this, it is always an individual consideration, which must always be carefully considered in an individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u116	I understand that there was no positive opinion of the Public Prosecutor to go this way, but rather there were doubts as to whether there would be objective criteria to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u117	No, the prosecution has made it very clear that it is very important that these objective criteria should be put in place if it is to be able to do its job properly. That is a concern which the prosecution has quite rightly pointed out to me and which we will continue to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u118	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u119	Mr Van der Staaij has asked whether there will be a tolerated situation as a result of the cabinet response to current legislation and regulations. I can reassure him: there is no such situation as far as I am concerned. The current euthanasia law works well; this is not affected. The D.A. will continue to play its full role, not pre-empting the enforcement of the current euthanasia law or the current debate on completed life and possibly future legislation. Mr Krol asked how the cabinet intends to deal with violations and what penalties are being applied. As stated in the letter, the cabinet is thinking of an enforcement system similar to the current euthanasia legislation and its enforcement. This means that if the independent committee that is then to be set up finds that in an individual case the requirements have not been met in case of assisted suicide in the case of completed life, the Public Prosecutor's Office should assess on the basis of objective criteria whether, in that case, a real criminal charge can be made. The Public Prosecutor's Office has an independent role in this. Infringements are then assessed on the basis of the criminalisation of suicide aid pursuant to Article 294 of the Criminal Code. Of course, the impact also looks at the penalty level. The current level of punishment is a prison sentence of up to three years or a fine of the fourth category. With this I have answered the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u120	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the answer from the cabinet in the first term. After a short suspension, we'll continue with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u121	We'll continue with the second term of the Chamber. Speaking time is two minutes, including tabling motions. I give the floor to Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u122	Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the ministers for the comprehensive answer to the questions of the Chamber. Many thanks also to my colleagues for the respectful conduct of this debate on this extremely important subject. I appreciate that very much. It is very good to hear that the cabinet is talking to the KNMG to see how further it can be given to the conclusion of the Schnabel Committee, which states that under the current euthanasia law there is still much room for euthanasia for older people suffering from a build-up of age complaints. After all, we really have to note that this conclusion has been drawn but that in practice many elderly people suffering from a build-up of age complaints are not helped. It would be very good if the conversation would lead us to find out what the barrier is for doctors and that they could be removed. It is also very good to hear that the cabinet says that it does not want to be at the forefront of this discussion, but that it is following the social feeling that it is following this social development because there must be a great deal of support for resolving these kinds of difficult ethical issues. The VVD supports that. In my first term, I also made a very specific reference to this. I should like to mention the age limit on this point. The Minister is quite right to say that from a basic point of view when it comes to autonomy, you would not be able to introduce that limit. However, according to the Minister, the sense of society is that it is mostly about the elderly. I share the final point about that feeling of society. However, if that led to a legal limit, those older people could feel that they are no longer part of it. That is a complicated dilemma that we will have to explore with each other when the bill comes to the Chamber. I conclude by saying that I really feel that today is a very important, fundamental step in the debate on completed life and that it is clear that the majority of this Chamber wants people who consider, without pressure from outside, that their lives are complete and that they can go from the road to helping a self-chosen end of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u123	Let me come back to the question of age. The Minister has indeed indicated that no age limit is set but that it is about the elderly. The VVD says here that, if we do this, we are talking about the elderly, whether it is 65, 70, 75 or 80 years old, and the risk is very high that the elderly feel that they are no longer part of it. What does the VVD Group think about the fact that the Minister has just defined the concept of 'elderly'?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u124	In my view, I have just said that I also understand that in practice, in the vast majority of cases, it is perhaps 99.9% of the population. In this sense, it is very good that we are talking about older people and that we are looking specifically at this problem. From a basic point of view, however, we would not be able to link the discussion on completed life to an age limit. If you set a legal limit, it could lead to that particular feeling. That's why I doubt we should. We will have to explore this with each other in the time when legislation comes to the Chamber. But that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u125	The Minister argues that she is following the social trend and that it is therefore about the elderly. The VVD understands that, but it still keeps it open that it's really about all ages. I wonder if the support for a law on completed life is as great as society realizes that it also covers people aged 21, 36 or 52 years. I would like to ask Mr Rutte of the VVD whether, before we enter the route, it should not be clear where the border will lie. Otherwise, we may have parallel debates. Wouldn't that be the right thing to do for an ethical subject like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u126	Ethical debates are characterised by dilemmas. I am very clear about the dilemma that exists. I believe that both sides are true: we know that in practice it will be mainly about the elderly, but in principle it is not really possible to set an age limit. I think that is a very clear dilemma. I think it is extremely important that we explore this with each other when the legislation comes to the Chamber or in the lead. When we come to legislation on this, I want it to be a law that has a lot of social support and not a law that has the effect of reducing aid in some areas. So I think it is very important that the law should have a great deal of support. That is why the debate on this issue must also be held in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr. Chairman. The older people get, the more they get away sometimes. Kids get their own lives. The partner dies. Friends and acquaintances are falling away. For D66 too, we must do everything in our society to keep life viable, including for the elderly. People will always try to make the best of their lives, but sometimes the feeling may arise that what lies ahead adds little more to what lies behind them. In fact, what is still coming could even undermine the life they have lived and the will to live on is gone. Those people are going to suffer from one for them too long, not because there is no place for them in this society anymore, but because they no longer want a place in this life. Can people who see their lives as completed be given a means by which they can end their lives in a way worthy of them? We are debating this important issue today. As far as D66 is concerned, self-determination must be at the heart of this. This is not about the euthanasia law and it is not about a medical basis. My question to the Minister is therefore: is this self-determination central to what the cabinet has in mind with other legislation? This has been under discussion in society for some time now. Opinions are divided, but there is increasing support. People who would like to make use of this now often have to resort to illegally ordering funds abroad or to other ways. If the request for assistance in suicide is considered, voluntary and sustainable, then according to D66 people should have the means and help to get out of life in a dignified manner. In doing so, we give the space to people who wish to make this choice for themselves. Finally, life is not a duty, as I have said before. There are also differences of opinion in the Chamber on this subject, but I find the way in which we have debated this issue today very valuable. We'll certainly do that more often. I'm looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mr. Chairman. The Schnabel Committee was very clear in its opinion: extending the scope for aid to suicide raises insurmountable concerns, including from the point of view of safety, security and prevention of abuse, particularly in view of the need to protect vulnerable groups. Therefore, the cabinet's proposal cannot and cannot be the answer to the committee's well-considered opinion. The cabinet position does not reflect the value of life or the complexity of problems faced by people. There is indeed a group of people who suffer from life and for whom other measures offer no solution. Before that, we had the Schnabel Committee, which came up with the opinion that I have just summarized. Offering suicide aid to this group has far-reaching consequences for society as a whole. We shouldn't go down that road. All this makes my group very uncomfortable with the cabinet position. We are going down a road that we are saying that we should not want to go down in conscience. I have therefore co-signed Mr Van der Staaij's motion of censure on the cabinet proposals. Although we differ on possibilities for helping with suicide, hopefully we can find each other in our commitment to a society in which older people feel seen and appreciated and loving care and attention. A government will do everything it can to prevent people from seeing their lives as completed. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Schnabel Committee has formulated a number of specific points to prevent people from finding their lives "completed";]] [[Whereas the prevention of loneliness, the enhancement of self-reliance and the revaluation of old age as a stage of life are of great importance in this respect;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a plan to prevent people from finding their lives "completed" and to address the issues raised by the Schnabel Committee and to clearly indicate the role the government should play in this respect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32647-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mr. Chairman. It is good to talk about the end of life and how it can be done in dignity. That is an important issue for many people. The debate today was about the opinion of the Schnabel Committee, which recommends that the current legislation should not be extended, because much more is already possible in the area of euthanasia than people think. The CDA agrees with this opinion of the Schnabel Committee, including the opinion that the social debate on the value of older people in society should be conducted and the opinion on how to prevent people from feeling that they no longer matter in society. The CDA wants the valuable opinion of the Schnabel Committee to be followed and so the cabinet does not adopt new legislation. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the Advisory Committee has carefully and carefully considered the legal, social and medical ethical aspects of the issue of completed life;]] [[Whereas the Advisory Committee concludes that the extension of the legislation is neither necessary nor desirable;]] [[Whereas the social debate should focus on the appreciation of the contribution of older people to society and the fact that they matter and should have a full place in society;]] [[calls on the Government to follow only the opinion of the Advisory Committee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32647-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u130	Mr. Chairman. My struggle hasn't been taken away. Yes, there is recognition of the desire to end life and help with suicide, but this is a law for the elderly and there will be reviews based on safeguards and objective testing criteria. I say to this cabinet that there will always be poignant border cases that cannot be resolved. The contrast between mercy and autonomy, as it is posted, is very far-reaching. Our analysis is that the euthanasia law leaves a lot of room. We should investigate that more closely. A planned death is not the only answer to the completed life; that indicated especially professor of long-term care and dementia Anne-Mei The last Saturday. I very much agree with that. Yet people who consider their lives to be complete are going to get a death aid worker. That abrasions: you must ask for death, while the struggle with death cannot be discussed. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in its view of completed life, the Cabinet proposes that a dying aid provider determines whether someone's wish is considered, persistent and free from external pressure and whether someone is eligible for suicide aid;]] [[Considers that it is important for someone to have a death wish to talk about this without having to ask for help with suicide;]] [[calls on the government, including life aid, to make it possible for a humanist council member or a mental caretaker to be able to do so without financial thresholds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32647-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u131	The Committee of Wise Men said that there should be a revaluation of old age. Els van Wijngaarden, who is promoting people with a completed life, says that there is a relational and situational component. We don't know exactly what the basis for the request is. We need to know why to go into regulation and legislation. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both the Schnabel Committee and the Cabinet and researcher Els van Wijngaarden have no answer to the question of why people have a death wish;]] [[considers that the answer to this question is very relevant for decisions to be taken;]] [[calls on the government to investigate further why the death wish of those who consider their lives to be complete,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32647-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u132	May I make one more comment, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u133	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u134	The self-determination of one can lead to high pressure on the other. We must make this assessment in this Chamber. We will always look at that in balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u135	Mr. Chairman. I thank the ministers for their response. We see here all the reason for continuing the process of legal guaranteeing help in the end of life. GroenLinks has indicated that the process itself should be careful. I asked a number of questions about this because, in my opinion, a number of frameworks were already clearly indicated in the cabinet letter. The fact that the VWS Minister states that she has several occupational groups in mind for the guidance and that she will continue to consult with the field to see what background is needed for this, I found positive. After all, you cannot at this stage tell us what background this particular new profession would be the best. With regard to the age limit, I would like to have looked carefully at the advantages and disadvantages. It seems logical at first sight to say: yes, this is only about the elderly and so you have to set an age limit. But the question is whether you necessarily need a hard age limit, because every age limit leads to new arbitrariness. That is why Mr Krol will be tabling a motion on my behalf. GroenLinks would like to talk about the further implementation of the law, but that this issue must be secured in a legislative proposal, we are clear on that. We are therefore very looking forward to the further examination of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u136	Madam President. I indicated in the first instalment that it is not a debate for the SGP like many others, that it is a matter of life or death and that an important change is about to take place. That is why I made an urgent appeal to the cabinet: do not go on this road, take this proposal back. We have had a worthy exchange of views, but the conclusion of the cabinet was crystal clear: we are aware that this is a matter of principle, but we have done so wisely and we will continue to do so. That is a decision of exceptional seriousness and poignantness. That is why I am obliged to use an exceptional instrument, namely the tabling of a motion of censure. This motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there are already serious concerns about the wide euthanasia practice in the Netherlands, both nationally and internationally;]] [[Whereas the Schnabel Committee unanimously and strongly recommended that the legal possibilities for aid in the event of suicide should not be extended, as this raises insurmountable concerns from the point of view of security, security and the prevention of abuse;]] [[Whereas many people are suffering from great loneliness, which first and foremost means a mission for society to be lovingly close;]] [[expresses its disapproval of the cabinet proposals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32647-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u137	Several groups have expressed their views here. The SGP has done the same, from a vision that I find very recognizable for the SGP. I do not understand very well that this heavy resource is being used for this purpose. It is more common for legislative proposals to be tabled that people have fundamental objections to, for example, a long time ago the bill on organ donation. Now the SGP is putting such a heavy burden on this. The cabinet is missionary and therefore still has to come forward with legislative proposals. If it doesn't, we'll say yes, you've been ruled out. Why is this heavy medicine being used? Can Mr Van der Staaij explain that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u138	Sure. This is in line with the way in which we ourselves perceive this cabinet position and its explanatory statement, namely that a fundamentally different approach is really being adopted here. Mr Rutte also started with this, albeit from an opposite perspective. It's an approach to life and death. Last week I was abroad. At international conferences you are addressed: what is the Netherlands doing? We get used to everything at some point, but this is really a very radical new step, when at least my group is already so concerned about euthanasia legislation and there is also a report saying that we really should not go down this road. We feel a lot of confirmation in that, but also the perspective of other beliefs is in it. And yet it is said: we are making the choice at the moment to continue with this. That is such a radical and fundamentally wrong step that, for the first time in my Parliament, we consider this exceptional step justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u139	The cabinet has addressed the questions very extensively. Indeed, the cabinet did not say: having heard Mr Van der Staaij, we have changed our minds. I do not think Mr Van der Staaij would have expected that either. But just as the position of the SGP is respected here, could he respect the position of these two ministers? If, after the elections, there is a cabinet led by Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Leijten as ministers, for example, another decision can always be taken. So, again, I think it seems to me that Mr Van der Staaij is not in a position to respect the other point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u140	I am trying to treat everyone here with respect and I am also really listening to what others are saying. That does not alter the fact that, in the end, our assessment can be and we really believe that, however much we listen and respect the other, this is a fundamentally wrong step, which is affecting the protection of life, which is a duty of the government. Then I think it is right, from my conviction, to put forward this point of view, in order to highlight it in this way too. Then it is also a democratic process, which must show whether or not other parties agree with it. That's what's going on here. I would like to comment on whether it is just a matter of: there will be a legislative proposal and until then, nothing is really going to happen. I am also concerned that this announcement of the bill may already undermine the enforcement of existing criminal provisions, that in the event of a case being brought before the courts, it is taken into account that the cabinet has already announced that the law will be amended. Then that has already pre-empted the law a kind of shadow effect. That is perhaps an additional argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u141	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their careful answer on this difficult issue. The Minister said that on the requirements of the death-aid worker's position, she is in consultation with.... she calls it a difficult term... "the field." 50PLUS likes to stick to the requirement that the death aid worker is a doctor. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to submit a legislative proposal on completed life;]] [[Whereas the Government has indicated that it is hereby setting up the function of Death Aid Provider;]] [[Whereas it is important to be able to assess in detail the medical and psychosocial effects of a request for termination of life, both separately and in conjunction with each other;]] [[Whereas a doctor is best equipped for this purpose and has taken an oath;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the bill that only a doctor can take on the role of a dying aid provider,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32647-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u142	I say it again: 50PLUS is in favour, but only under strict conditions. Abuse must be prevented at all costs. Old age needs to be appreciated and we must do everything we can to prevent people from feeling redundant due to illness or old age. However, this cannot be prevented by everyone. No one can determine for another what the value of life is for him or her. There has also been talk of the age limit, an issue on which the last word has not yet been said. That is what Mr Rutte has just said about this afternoon's debate. I think that is right and therefore submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government states that an autonomous decision to terminate life on request is not limited to the elderly;]] [[whereas the Cabinet also indicates that this growing desire is mainly felt by people of age, and that it would therefore be obvious to include an age limit in the new system;]] [[Whereas an age limit in the forthcoming legislative proposal may affect the sense of fullness or the position of older people in our society;]] [[calls on the Government to examine in detail whether a hard age limit in the forthcoming bill on termination of life is desirable and necessary on request,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32647-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u143	Mr. Chairman. It was a nice and dignified debate in which views were exchanged. That was beautiful, of course. The minister said she would do everything in her power to convince the Chamber. She tried to do that. However, we are not convinced because the reasons for the desire to take such a dramatic, drastic step have not been adequately addressed. One of the underlying causes is loneliness. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 900,000 out of a total of 2.9 million people over 65 suffer from loneliness;]] [[noting that the research "Signaling and Approaching Loneliness" of the Centre for Older People's Research at VU shows that providing general information is an important element in combating loneliness;]] [[calls on the government, together with municipalities and older people's organisations, to draw up and forward to the Chamber a national action plan on combating social isolation of older people before the draft law on suicide aid to "completed life,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32647-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u144	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the directors for their first-term response. I would like to stress once again that the PvdA Group explicitly supports the line that the cabinet is using. This debate has only strengthened us in this regard. We will continue the conversation in society, especially when the legal text is there. In the discussion in my group, the question arose as to what exactly is the criterion of the sensitivity of the desire to the end of life. Mrs Dijkstra also referred to this in the first term. It's a subjective criterion. Minister Schippers indicated that the current euthanasia law also makes subjective considerations. I would like to put the following question to Minister Van der Steur. Can you see here a parallel with criminal law in which we also know the figure of the legitimate objective evidence and the convincing, more subjective evidence needed to reach a judgment? Is this parallel going to be implemented now or are we dealing here with a completely different weighting? On behalf of the Labour Party, I would like to point out once again that the cabinet itself has made very careful considerations in its response to the Schnabel Committee's report. I am also pleased that in their response both ministers also occasionally draw parallel to the euthanasia law. However difficult the process of balancing aid with suicide is, according to the PvdA Group, it is not so that we have to start from zero. It is precisely through the developing euthanasia practice that we in the Netherlands can boast a lot of care, safety and widely-behaved standards. I think we should keep that in mind again and again when we take up the follow-up to this new law. The PvdA Group has confidence in the follow-up to the debate and will be happy to contribute to the further development of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u145	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dijkstra asked whether self-determination is central to the legislative proposal. Oh, yeah! We have just said that it is not an absolute value and that the value of the protection of life is the reason why we set the procedure. It's definitely the value that's at the heart of the bill. The motion in part No. 56 belongs to Mrs Dik-Faber. It invites us to come up with a plan to prevent people from finding their lives completed, to address the issues raised by the Schnabel Committee and to clarify the role that the government should play in this respect. We had already indicated that we would take over these concerns from the Schnabel Committee. I therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. If the motion is passed, we will draft that plan in parallel with the bill. In the Bruins Slot motion in part No. 57 the Government is invited to follow only the opinion of the Advisory Committee. After this debate, it may be clear that we are not recommending this motion, which is contrary to the Cabinet letter. In the Leijten motion on part No. 58 the government is also invited to provide life support, such as a humanist council member or a mental caregiver, without financial thresholds. I advise against this motion. The possibility exists to speak with all kinds of parties, from churches to mosque and temple. As a government, we subsidise the coalition from Meaning to End. In the Leijten motion on part No. 59 the government is invited to do further research into why the death wish of people who consider their lives to be complete. I advise against this motion. Els van Wijngaarden's PhD research, which deals with this, shows that this is happening and that it has already been arrested. I don't think it's necessary for the government to do the same. The Van der Staaij/Dik-Faber motion in part No. 60 contains the consideration that many people have to contend with great loneliness, which first and foremost means a mission for society to be lovingly close. The motion then condemns the cabinet proposals. I am going to take the cabinet proposal and leave this motion of censure to the Chamber. In the Krol motion on part No. 61 the government is asked to include in the bill that only a doctor can take on the role of a dying aid provider. I advise against this motion. We are focusing on someone with a medical background, but we want to determine, in the discussions we will still have with the parties, the most appropriate background for this. I can imagine that disciplines that have experience of existential and psychosocial problems are also a direction you might think of. In the Krol/Voortman motion in part No. 62 the Government is requested to examine in detail whether a hard age limit on termination of life is desirable and necessary on request. The cabinet position is based on an age limit and I have indicated why. I would advise against this motion for a resolution. In the Kuzu motion in part No. 63 the government is invited to draw up an action plan to combat social isolation among older people, together with municipalities and older people's organisations, before the legislative proposal is discussed. I advise against this motion. I supported Mrs Dik-Faber's first motion because it states that not only the government but also society plays a role in this. I find that in the motion in part No. 63 too much attention is paid to government, as society plays a crucial role in this. Mr President, I believe that I have given an opinion on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u146	Thank you. There is one more question for the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u147	Mr. Chairman. That is Mrs Wolbert's question on the criterion of sensitivity. In short, what exactly does it look like when the law is broken? Let me say first of all that, when the law is broken, the Public Prosecutor has an independent role to play and will have to judge it himself. Next, it is up to the prosecution to provide legal and convincing evidence of the violation of the law and of any consequences. The judgment on this matter is, of course, reserved for the courts. Mrs Wolbert explicitly referred to the term "intenseness." This criterion follows from the designation of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the area of euthanasia legislation. It is about the testability of the doctor's belief whether there is hopeless and unbearable suffering. This is, to some extent, a subjective opinion of the doctor, without any doubt on the basis of objective elements. This is, however, ultimately reserved for an objective review by the Public Prosecutor's Office on the basis of the file, any witness interviews and any questioning of the persons concerned, e.g. the doctor concerned himself. The drafting of the legislative proposal will therefore involve whether such criteria, or the same criterion, should also play a role in the policy of prosecution in the field of completed life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-6.u148	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate. A motion of censure has been tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Dik-Faber. It is customary to vote on a motion of censure in the same way. I'll suspend the sitting for five minutes and then we'll vote.
