ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u1	We have come to the Prime Minister's answer to the questions raised by the Chamber in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I will answer on the basis of a few topics. I'm going into Ukraine first. Then I will deal with Turkey, Brexit, migration Africa and a number of other issues. Before that, I would like to say to Mr Omtzigt that he is right. The appreciation of the EU Turkey report has indeed not been included in the annotated agenda due to a drafting error. Sorry about that. It was sent to the Chamber yesterday through the report of the JHA Council. Mr Omtzigt is absolutely right that this is preferably on the annotated agenda, but something has gone wrong. In the meantime, therefore, the appreciation has landed at the Chamber. I would like to start with Turkey, with the challenge of the inconvenience that Mr Segers put forward. Then I want to go in... Excuse me, I hear Mr Segers is correcting me. Of course, it's about Ukraine. Well, there are now so many topics with discomfort...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u3	That you could have heard that from such a distance...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u4	That is because of my ears, but also because of Mr Segers' well-sounding voice. Actually, we don't need those microphones. So I want to start with the inconvenience surrounding the referendum issue; how do we deal with that? I think that Mr Segers rightly referred to this as a challenge. Then I would like to make a number of comments on the legal commitment. Then I would like to comment on the questions raised. So let me start with the first point. Mr Segers touched the core. Of course there's discomfort. There's been a referendum. I must say straight away that it was a consultative referendum. So the referendum was not corrective, so there is no need for the government to take over the result. But a large majority in the Netherlands has expressed their opinion. The rise was sufficient, which made the outcome binding in the sense that he should be treated and reviewed. The referendum did not become binding; it remained consultative, but the turnout was above the limit and was also voted no by an overwhelming majority. All that makes it an uncomfortable issue. The reason for the cabinet, especially for Minister Koenders and myself, to be very motivated to do justice to the no vote in a way where we do not have to reject the association agreement is purely geopolitical. This has been discussed on several occasions in the discussions in the run-up to the referendum. I and many others with me have drawn attention to this in a number of television programmes. And it's only become more relevant in the last few months. It has everything to do with the importance of European unity vis-à-vis Russian foreign policy. For me in that is the essence of the reason for trying to do this. So I think that's important. I have often argued here: Europe is jobs. Well, that's true. But if I, as Prime Minister, have learned one thing in the past six years, it is that Europe, because of our cooperation, that we know that we are secure, is indirectly and directly also protection and security. I have often referred to that circle of carriages in front of an unstable outside world. If that is the case, a country must do everything it can to ensure that safety is as high as possible. It is my conviction that the rejection of the association agreement is a great gift for Russia. It's a big gift for Vladimir Putin at a time when we're seeing the incidents increase. Of course we know the facts: the illegally annexed Crimea, all indications of military involvement in eastern Ukraine, and now also the way Russia is involved in Syria and its major humanitarian consequences. Furthermore, there is the worrying installation of missiles in the Kaliningradenclave, ancient Königsberg, and there is the hybrid Russian threat, including in the cyber field. For all these reasons, we in Europe cannot and must not be naive. It is really important that we, as Europe, maintain unity with Russia. I am sometimes asked: if you think that is so important, why not say yes at all to the association agreement and simply do nothing with the result of the referendum? I believe that we should do so, because the referendum has highlighted issues that are essential for the confidence and the extent to which we are moving forward with this association agreement. These are also exactly the elements that we want to address when it comes to whether or not it is about accession. We are talking about money, about the free movement of workers, about military assistance. And what exactly is being done to combat corruption, to combat fraud, to build the rule of law? I think it is worth giving a substantive answer. Tomorrow we'll see if we can do that. A lot of people rightly asked the question on which I base my opinion on those grievances. Of course, that's always arbitrary. There have been investigations. I have also seen the debate between Mr Samsom and Mr Roemer at Nieuwsuur. All these elements were mentioned by the Socialist Party. That's just a fact. Of course, it's always interpretive. Then Mr Roemer may have voted against it for that reason, but that does not say why they voted against 61% or 65% of the people who eventually rose. However, we need a grip. Then you look for the best possible assessment of the public debate and see which grievances were voiced. That's the search. I have said it many times, I do not have the illusion that, should this succeed, I will convince all the no-votes and that they will say: oh no, now we get it, thank you for agreeing. I don't think that's gonna happen. I think a lot of people will say: no is no and as far as we are concerned it will remain so. However, we also have another consideration to make. That applies to the Chamber and certainly to me as Prime Minister. We have another responsibility. That responsibility is to do it wisely. In campaigning time, that might be unwise, because I do not think that this is really a vote winner for my party and other parties here. However, I have said it before. We're all committed to doing our job. We shouldn't be so busy keeping our jobs that we forget to do our job. That's how I'm in the game. That's why I'm trying to do it like this. This is an honest answer to Mr Segers' challenge. I understand that challenge. I think we all feel that discomfort. This is why I do what I do. The same goes, of course, for the cabinet, for Bert Koenders and the entire Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u5	Have you said all about this part now? About Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u6	Well, there's a lot more to talk about Ukraine. Mr Segers asked such an open question that I started it. We could do it in such a way that Mr Segers responds to this and then I will answer all the other questions. But I'm not going over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u7	Then I'll give the room for a brief interruption. I propose that the rest of the questions on Ukraine be answered afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u8	I do have a point of order: it seems to me that everyone should be able to talk about this. This is a very important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u9	Of course. It's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u10	I have one last question. I hear what the Prime Minister is saying, namely that we have to weigh up the internal democratic damage versus the geopolitical damage in the absence of the Treaty. We have to weigh this in a very sensible way. I share his goals when he says that we should make a fist together and work together. However, are these objectives not to be achieved in another way, namely by the independent conclusion of a treaty between the European Commission and Ukraine and by bilateral agreements between individual countries with Ukraine? Can the same objective, good cooperation with Ukraine, be achieved in another way, which also serves the geopolitical objectives and at the same time reduces internal democratic damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u11	I get that question. Of course, there is never a black and white answer to that. I'll make my assessment. The association agreement has become a symbol in itself. It turns out that in the Netherlands. It has become so large that there has even been a referendum on it. However, it is also a symbol in the European attitude towards Russia and the importance that we collectively attach to a stable Ukraine. Why are we dealing with these Eastern Partnership agreements? Why do these association agreements come? That is what we are doing to help stabilise these countries. So this is a symbol. I remember the summit of the Eastern Partnership in Vilnius, where Yanukovych, the then President of Ukraine, came and I remember what happened afterwards. At that time Russia had offered him an offer and Russia had said: don't do that. We know the whole situation that unfolded after that, right up to today. Perhaps it is possible if the Netherlands says no, but not everything, because that becomes very complicated. I will come back to this later, because there have been specific questions about it. Then it's totally off the table. Europe could then try to work towards a trade agreement with Ukraine. Countries can make all kinds of bilateral agreements. I've argued that before here. However, it is a question of symbolism. If this is taken off the table after everything that has happened, it will really be interpreted in the world, in Eastern Europe and in the relationship between Europe and Russia as a huge victory for the Russian President. That is my absolute conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u12	In itself, I can follow the geopolitical considerations of the Prime Minister, but there are still several miraculous elements to them. The argument is getting heavier in the course of the process, while there was no direct cause for this. Perhaps even more special is the Dutch Government's efforts to negotiate in Europe. This includes: no money for Ukraine, no military assistance and no EU membership. Is it not from the Ukrainian and geopolitical point of view that an agreement with 27 Member States without that annotation, so without that legally binding declaration, could be better than an agreement with 28 Member States with that declaration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u13	No, absolutely not, for the reason I just mentioned. Words have their meaning. Symbols have their meaning. This treaty has a meaning. These cases aren't in isolation. They're part of a history that we carry with us for three or four years. The context is also that the situation between Ukraine and Russia and Russia and Europe, which was fragile in March/April, has deteriorated further. So no, it doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u14	The Prime Minister gave a wonderful speech to the European Liberals. He said that we need to take the citizens seriously and do something really different in Europe. How can he deal with this Ukraine referendum so strangely? He calls into question the geopolitical and democratic damage, but what about the political damage to the VVD if he does not take the electorate seriously at all and introduces this treaty through the back door?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u15	That political damage is possible, especially in campaign time. Mr Van Dijk is right about that. But I wasn't hired by the Netherlands as Prime Minister to ask me all day what electoral is best for my party. I've been hired to do what's right for the Netherlands. Good for the Netherlands and this region is that we do not weaken ourselves towards Russia, which has also been increasingly assertive in its foreign policy over the last few months. I'm willing to go from door to door and from square to square to talk to everyone. What I said in Warsaw is that we, as wise politicians, should not say to people who threaten to vote for the SP, PVV or 50PLUS: you are wrong or you are unwise. No, we have to say, why do you do that? Why don't you vote for my party or other parties who are trying to make a full assessment of very difficult issues? That's the conversation we need to have. Me and Louis Asscher, Sybrand Buma or Alexander Pechtold should outline how we are trying to solve people's problems. That does not mean that anyone who is considering voting for a party that does not belong to the more traditional parties is always right. It's not that. You just can't say: you're wrong to vote for a party like that. That's incorrect. I object to those who say: you are not good because you vote for a party that is not good. I'm against that. I'd like to start the conversation. But that doesn't mean I always agree with a person like that. There are people in the Netherlands who say, even after the announcement of the UK's departure from Europe, that there should be a nextit. Even the PVV still says that. That would be disastrous for the Netherlands. Look what's happening in the UK right now. If I had a conversation with someone who leans towards the PVV and says I'm really for a nexit, then if I explain why I'm not for that and if at the end of the conversation that person says he's staying for a nexit, then we disagree. That's inevitable. You can't convince everyone. But it starts with addressing people's concerns. That's why we're all in this room. At least I am in politics to solve problems and to discuss them. That is not only sending, but also listening and engaging in dialogue. That's what we do. It doesn't always mean right for the voter. It means trying to start the conversation and explain what you're standing for. Leadership is also doing unpopular things and doing things because they are needed for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u16	A wonderful answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u18	...but it doesn't lead to anything. According to the Prime Minister, this treaty was still a trade treaty before the referendum. We didn't have to make such a big deal about it. Now the Prime Minister comes with the geopolitical consequences and he says that we must make a gesture against Russia. The Association Agreement may also contribute to an increase in polarisation with Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u19	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u20	Does the Prime Minister recognize that? Is he prepared to admit that throwing the treaty into the trash can now would be a win-win situation for the Prime Minister? Firstly, he takes the vote seriously and secondly, this whole subject will no longer haunt him and the VVD until the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u21	This is a rare and extremely sad glimpse of the Socialist Party's thinking. So that's how Mr. Van Dijk is in the game! We'll know. I'm not like that in politics. The way we're sitting here, we can only spend our time and energy once. If, in addition to friendship, we have one thing in life, that's health and energy to do something about. You can only spend it once. We have all chosen to do this full-time in politics. But you're not just doing that for your own party, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u22	No, Mr Van Dijk, you can't interrupt now. The Prime Minister continues his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u23	I come to the questions that have been asked about the legally binding nature. There are two questions. The first question is whether it is necessary that Ukraine's agreement should also be legally binding in this decision of the Heads of State or Government. That is not necessary, because we are dealing with issues for which the obligations lie with the 28 European countries: do we or do we not give membership of the European Union under this Treaty in future? I do not need to go through all the elements described in the letter of late October. These things are all on the side of Europe. We have, of course, also asked for advice on this issue. The Chamber will get that as soon as we're clear and it becomes public. The Council's Legal Service has informed us that it has everything to do with the Vienna Convention, in which it has been accepted that contracting parties can make their part of the obligations subject to a legally binding interpretation in order to specify what those obligations are. We are talking about all kinds of things that are on the European side. That was one question: should Ukraine also participate? No. However, I want Ukraine to accept it. This does not make the country legally binding, but it accepts it. If they say 'if you do this, we will leave the association agreement', we will have a legally binding declaration, but no longer an association agreement. So, of course, we have good contact with Ukraine. The second question is: is this the right way to connect the 28 Member States? We have also, of course, been in close contact with the Council's legal advisers on this issue. The answer is yes. There is a precedent, as I wrote in yesterday's letter. There are many precedents for this type of declaration and decisions by the Heads of State or Government. They have their meaning, for example in lawsuits. We outlined the Rottmann judgment in yesterday's report from the General Affairs Council. It has been dealt with in full on the basis of the decisions of the Heads of State or Government in Edinburgh on Denmark. Finally. The last point, too, which will be made public next week is that the Council's Legal Service says: if you do it this way, this decision by the Heads of State or Government will be part of the whole of the European acquis at large. That has its meaning, because it is therefore double-guarded in cases that could possibly be dealt with before the Court of Justice in Luxembourg. That is what I wanted to say about the question of whether it is legally binding and whether Ukraine should participate. I will go into the questions raised by the D66 Group. Mr Verhoeven asked the specific question whether these decisions had been maintained. The Irish No in 2008 and the Danish No in 1991 were addressed in a similar way and those decisions are still in force. The Danish decision, as I outlined, was invoked in 2010 in the Rottmann case. We also had the issue of the United Kingdom at the beginning of this year. It has been done in a similar way, also with a decision by the Heads of State or Government. So this is actually the normal form to organise this, to maximise that such a decision is part of the legal history and has its meaning in legal disputes. This is the route. In fact, we have based ourselves on the legal advice, because the law of association is extremely complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u24	Have all questions about Ukraine been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u25	The questions about the legal bond are. A few other questions have been asked about the Ukraine Treaty. I can answer that briefly if you like, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u26	Yeah, I'd love to. Then we've had that subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u27	The consequences of Brexit have been asked. At the moment, it is not really possible to make a ruling on this, because these consequences are still the subject of analysis, particularly with the European Commission. So that will all be part of the conversations about Brexit. The AIV opinion has been requested. That advice was not requested by the cabinet. It was an unsolicited opinion, which in a number of respects corresponds to the position of the cabinet. Anyway, you can do that sometimes. Mr Van Dijk asked whether the "EU only" part of the association agreement would automatically enter into force if we did not reach agreement tomorrow. The answer to that is no. The treaty will then have to be renegotiated, as I said a moment ago. Mr Verhoeven asked: what are you doing next? Well, make a decision in the Cabinet as soon as possible. That goes to the Council of State. As soon as that gets back, we'll make a more detailed report as soon as possible, so we keep real pace. I think I understood Mr Verhoeven correctly: pace, pace, pace. I've told you before, it's been too long. The cabinet has sometimes had to take too long. So I think it is important to increase the pace considerably after tomorrow. Finally, we have been asked what will happen if tomorrow fails. Then there will be a proposal not to ratify. If it did not work tomorrow, there will be a cabinet proposal on Friday to send a bill to the Council of State to remove our signature from the Association Agreement. So tomorrow is really the time when it has to happen. It can't drag any longer. I think so myself, but I think I can also sense what has been found Chamberwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u28	I think it's a pity we couldn't interrupt at the jumping point. So I am going back to the point of legal commitment. Following the Council of Ministers on 12 August, it was simply said that a solution would be sought together with the 28 Member States and Ukraine. In October, November, that completely disappears from the picture. Ukraine therefore decides at some point not to agree. Is that formally decided somewhere? President Poroshenko and Prime Minister Rutte have often spoken. Did the President of Ukraine say at some point that we are not participating in this? The Prime Minister also mentioned two examples: Denmark and Ireland. In these examples an interpretation of a treaty has indeed been given, but all parties to the treaty participated in it. Denmark and Ireland were the object of the declaration, but they also signed it. The European Union has followed suit. Ireland, for example, was promised a Commissioner. Everyone had to agree to that. That is what has happened with the previous appointments of Commissioners. So countries are sticking to that. I understand that there is a political commitment in that case, but Ukraine seems to have dropped out of negotiations somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u29	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u30	Yes, I do. Somewhere Ukraine must have been lost, because that was the intention at the beginning. Does the Prime Minister really say that what is being decided here is binding on Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u31	It is not true what Mr Omtzigt says. We have always sought a solution in which we, together with Ukraine, look very closely at how we address it. That is why it is very essential for us that Ukraine should be able to live with what we are going to decide tomorrow. It has not been said: this is a legally binding decision that Ukraine is also signing for. That was never said. It has been said that we are looking with Ukraine for a solution to this problem. That's exactly what we're doing for the reason I just outlined. The first question you have to ask is: how do you arrange for it to be legally binding? Do you have to do that with the 28 Member States or with the 28 Member States plus Ukraine? We do not have to do that, because we are dealing here with matters that concern only the 28 Member States of the European Union itself. It is still necessary to speak out about this together. It is therefore necessary that Ukraine should also say: we can live with this. The opposite would be that Ukraine would say: we are leaving the association agreement altogether. The elements of the letter at the end of October are all matters on the European side. Our discussions with the legal advisers have led to this. There hasn't been a moment in the talks with Ukraine when it was decided: you would join first but not now. That hasn't been the case. It is not that we first said that we are going to make 28 plus 1 legally binding and that Ukraine said at some point: we are no longer participating. That was suggested by Mr Omtzigt, but that was not the moment I was underlining: it did not occur. Then it is important that you and his twenty-eight arrange it in such a way that it is legally binding. Of course, you also rely on the legal advice. Then this is the best form, because it gives the greatest certainty. This is part of the legal history, usable in court cases and binding on the 28 Member States. Suppose, for example, that one of the countries would say, on the basis of an interpretation of the Treaty, that this means that we as a Europe should now allow free movement for Ukraine. So far, on the basis of that treaty, you could have asked: what do you base that on, et cetera? Then maybe you could have argued about the interpretation. You could have even said: pay attention, I have listened carefully to the debate in the Netherlands, I have listened in other countries; it seems that there has been some kind of insight around that treaty which gives the impression that this could be derived from it. What you are doing with this is unambiguous and record once and for all: no, it is not a free movement of workers for the 28.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u32	The Prime Minister was very careful in his words. He said: it is binding on the 28, but what is agreed here is not binding on Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u33	I've said that three times. That is not necessary, because Ukraine is not about the things that we are organizing here. These are obligations which, if you misinterpreted the treaty, would lead the European Union to Ukraine. They're not necessary because we record that we don't want to. Then you talk about accession, then you talk about free movement, money and military cooperation. So, for all these things, it is true that we are recording here: it is not. But these are all matters on which the European Union could decide, on the basis of its responsibility, to do so. We're recording here that we're not doing that. The Council's legal service says that Ukraine does not have to say 'yes' legally, because Ukraine is not at all concerned, it has no powers in this area. But of course, what you are trying to do, and we are doing it from the start, is to make sure that Ukraine can live with the solution. If Ukraine can't live with that, it could say: then we'll stop completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u34	There is now a point that I am really going to ask for the disclosure of paragraph 5 of the legal memo. There is something quite different in that than what is being said here today. I therefore urge the Prime Minister to ensure that this memo becomes public, because it is about bindingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u35	I have just promised that if it succeeds tomorrow, we will send that whole piece of documents to the Chamber after the European Council. This is now part of the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u36	If it goes public tomorrow, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u37	If there is a debate next week, then all those pieces are on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u38	I think that's a good deal. Thank you for that. I asked a completely different question, but it did not come up. I mentioned the four points and said four times that there is actually little commitment. I asked the Prime Minister if that's true for all four points. Can he comment on these four points? I mention the issue of membership, of which he himself said in a broadcast of Newsuur before the referendum: but it is not membership. He said that it is not in that treaty either, but that Article 49 of the Union Treaty states that any European country may submit a request for membership. You can discuss Turkey if it is in Europe, but there is no discussion about Ukraine. That's 100% in Europe. So that follows from somewhere else. I mentioned why it's actually four times very little. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u39	No, that's not right. That has everything to do with the whole text of the Treaty. We had a referendum here in March until the beginning of April. I believe that the referendum was held on 6 April. On each of these points it was constantly said: this is it. In addition, reference has always been made to treaty texts. For example, look at what is in the preamble about sentences, about phrases about the relationship between Ukraine and Europe. The historical law and a number of other things are mentioned. There were people who said that this is a treaty that is an adaptation to membership, although it doesn't say anything. It has indeed been mentioned that Ukraine could derive from the whole of history and also from the preamble to the Treaty itself and from what is further in the Treaty a kind of automaticism that might not lead to membership now but in the future. That's answer one. It is not the case that the opponents who mentioned these arguments were not based at all on anything. In the end, my point of view was always: it is not there. They have indeed said, on the basis of all history, that there are risks and that things can happen. This makes it legally binding once and for all what it is and what it is not. Mr Omtzigt says that it is nothing but what it was. I would like to add one more thing. It's really not sure it's gonna work out tomorrow. When I look at my agenda for the last two weeks and see how many calls I make, even last night, and after the debate, it just goes on to see if it's going to work tomorrow, then it's really not sure that it's going to work. If it was really nothing, it wouldn't be necessary, but it isn't. It's really big beer. What we want is big and important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u40	I would like to have a commentary on these four points on a point-by-point basis. I think I have made it clear why these four points are fairly empty. Ukraine can apply for membership, and we can always refuse it, because we have a right of veto. The Prime Minister was absolutely right about that. There is no collective security guarantee, because that collective security guarantee is not in the EU's arsenal. There is no provision in the Treaty for total freedom of movement of workers as a right for Ukraine. This can always happen unilaterally, but it does not follow from the Treaty. That is why I am asking: is it true what I am saying that these things are simply not included?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u41	Now we have to be very precise. Mr Omtzigt is, of course, right that I, too, have always argued in the referendum campaign that the concerns addressed are not in the Treaty. But what did the opponents say? They said it might not be there, but it was not so that the no-comb in the text had no direct cause. Those people referred to the history of this issue and to the coherence between all the phrases contained in the Association Agreement, to recent history from 2013 to Vilnius and the many statements made by European leaders, including on future membership of Ukraine of the European Union, sometimes and sometimes not linked to this process. With this we record once and for all what is true and what is not. Everything it is not is now legally binding. I say to Mr Omtzig once again that, if this would be so obvious, why am I constantly on the phone for the last two weeks to convince all my colleagues of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u42	The legal added value of that statement is highly questionable. That's what many experts say. Especially if one of the two treaty partners doesn't sign. The Prime Minister says: that is not true, it is of great value. We now have to deal with a document that we received this morning, which is not public but which, fortunately, we are allowed to paraphrase. It says that the agreements in the legal statement do not count if Ukraine does not sign. So we have a contradiction here. The Prime Minister says "A" and the document that is still classified, says B. Does the Prime Minister acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u43	No. What's in the document is this. That will be evident when the document becomes public. If you want to give an interpretation of parts of the treaty to which both parties can derive rights and obligations, then both signs must be given. Both Ukraine and Europe must endorse this legally binding and share the decision. Where the European Union is one-sided about whether we are making that kind of commitment, which Ukraine is not about, that is not true. That has to do with it, and I referred to the Vienna Convention, which has now been accepted, which allows contracting parties to interpret, for their part of the obligations, what those obligations entail or not. Mr Van Dijk would be right if things were to be arranged tomorrow in which Ukraine could also derive rights and commit itself. But that is not the case here. All of these are issues that Europe can or cannot give Ukraine but which Ukraine cannot claim. That is why in this case, on the basis of the Vienna Convention, it is enough for the 28 to do so. However, it is necessary for Ukraine to say: we accept this and we can live with it. Otherwise, of course, you don't have an association agreement anymore. That would be the case if Ukraine were to say: oh, if you interpret it that way for your part, then we no longer need it. That is why we are not only in close contact with the 28, but also very strongly with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u44	The legal statement is soft as butter. If it were to come to a dispute, Ukraine would have the Association Agreement itself to invoke. Then the Prime Minister won't get far with that legal statement. So, in my view, this whole spectacle around that legal statement is a pacifier. Next week, we're gonna see it when this document goes public. It would be a credit to the Prime Minister if he recognized this already.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u45	It's simply not true. Let us take the question of accession as an example, so the alleged prospect of membership. It will soon be established, if it is up to me, that this treaty does not offer Ukraine a prospect of membership. It is therefore not legally relevant for Ukraine to commit to such a decision. Why not? Because Ukraine isn't about it. EU accession is an EU internal matter. This applies to all these elements. All the issues we are talking about here are EU internal matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr Van Dijk wishes to respond again. I will allow that because this point is important. After that, I'm gonna be a little strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister bases his arguments on examples of old treaties involving EU Member States who received opt-outs, or for which exceptions were made. Mr Omtzigt said the same thing. However, Ukraine is not an EU Member State. Ukraine has the association agreement which will soon be introduced by the Netherlands when it comes to Prime Minister Rutte. In doing so, he ignores the outcome of the referendum. He bases himself on old examples to support the fact that such a legal statement is really going to work. It is a embarrassment, it is not going to work and it would be a pity if a majority of the House were to accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u48	By repeating something over and over again, it doesn't automatically become true. Let's be very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u49	That's true of you, and you repeat it over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u50	Yes, I repeat it all the time because I have to keep parading your remark. Look. What's going on here? What should you organise when it comes to legally binding interpretations of an agreement involving parties who are not members of the European Union? In this case, it is an agreement with a third party, namely Ukraine. Who should be legally bound by these interpretations? I say again that there are many elements in the agreement that result from both obligations and rights of Ukraine. I refer, for example, to free trade. If it were about those elements and you were going to record things on them, Ukraine would indeed have to agree to them. That's right. Then Ukraine, too, should be legally committed to this. That's absolutely true. Only, we don't do that here. We are merely laying down obligations here, and we have just mentioned them all, which are on our side with the European Union. A decision on membership of Ukraine is a matter for the EU, not Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u51	All over the Prime Minister's speech against Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Dijk, he always talks about 'all these elements'. He mentions four of them. The fifth is about the fight against corruption. It seems to me that Ukraine is not just a player in that area, but should be about the player. That should therefore give reason to want to have a firm signature from Ukraine on that fifth point. How does the Prime Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u52	Well, we've actually done it quite differently, which is much firmer. I do not find Ukraine's signature on this issue so terribly interesting, precisely because there are so many concerns about this. I think it is important here to lay down very clearly what we are doing, and if it is up to me to do so, we shall also do so because if Ukraine does not deliver on these points, for us, the 28 will be legally binding that we will call on the articles that provide for the partial or total termination of the association agreement. Now I am getting ahead of what we are talking about with European colleagues. Invoking those articles can be done unilaterally. As far as I am concerned, that is also part of the statement we are talking about, because I really want that element to be recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u53	This sounds a bit like an interpretation of the interpretation of that fifth passage which could give rise to a binding statement on its interpretation. Because it doesn't say that. It does not say that the 28 Member States would then invoke the unbinding clauses of the association agreement. It just says it's an important part. That is not signed by Ukraine, so this is a questionable matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mr Grashoff knows the texts we are talking about. Those texts, I shall give you a look at them, precisely because I think that question is very relevant, and it is precisely because Ukraine would not deliver on these points that the European Union will not hesitate to terminate the association agreement at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u55	I am not very enthusiastic about the role of the Prime Minister over the last nine months, but I must say that I do now think that some other parties are going very far in looking for indications that this would not be a solution that could be taken seriously. There is an attempt to find a way on all sides. Apparently, it's very complicated. So let's wait and see what the Prime Minister comes up with. That's what my question is about. The Prime Minister says it must be done on Thursday. That is the final moment when it can still be dealt with in substance. That is clear and it is necessary after nine months. Is there going to be a letter to the Chamber as soon as possible the next day, so we know exactly what it says? I think it's already been agreed. My main question is: 'Excuse me for the somewhat longer question, President-in-Office of the Council, is how the prime ministers see the process of further treatment in steps, in the Second Chamber but also in the First Chamber.'
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u56	I have to be careful about that, because that's not my call. But I understand Mr Verhoeven in such a way that we both want it to happen as soon as possible. There will first be a letter to the Chamber, explaining in detail what we have decided, with all the annexes and so on. If it works. If it doesn't work out, we'll explain why it didn't work out. But if we succeed, we will have a Council of Ministers on Friday and then we will adopt the law necessary to ratify, in the light of the decision taken on Thursday. That consent law goes straight to the Council of State on Friday. We will then ask the Council of State to advise as soon as possible. As soon as that opinion is back, we will draw up the further report as soon as possible and it will go to the Chamber. We will then do everything in our power from the cabinet to answer any questions as soon as possible. We're just gonna have to hang out and sort it all out. In fact, I believe that everyone wants to get rid of this issue, whether positive or negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u57	To sum up, the Prime Minister says, "Whether it works or not, I'll come back with something." That means there's a law going to the Chamber and all the machines...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u58	In both cases, Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u59	On Friday, at least there will be clarity about the content. After that, all the machines available to the cabinet and where it can be at its disposal are ready to ensure that this whole process can be handled as quickly as possible as required by the Referendum Act and that the treatment can take place in the Second and First Chambers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u60	The direct response to this interruption is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u61	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u62	I now come to the subject of Turkey. Here's what's going on. Yesterday, in the General Affairs Council, in accordance with the Foreign Minister's undertaking here in the Chamber, the Netherlands called for a formal cessation of six months. It turned out to be only one Member State, that was Austria. Then the Minister for Foreign Affairs reached, and I am allowed to say that he has fought for this, and he has succeeded in stating in Presidency conclusions that no chapters have actually been opened since 30 June and that, in the current circumstances, the opening of new chapters is not being considered. Why are these Presidency conclusions and not Council conclusions? That is because Austria blocked those conclusions from the whole of the Council. Austria itself had a position which, I think, pleases many people in this Chamber, but then, when that was not possible, blocked the conclusions which had to be drawn and which in fact say 'it is all quiet and it is foreseeable that it will remain so for a while'. That's why it didn't work out. I spoke to Bert Koenders this morning and asked him: Bert, I will no doubt get that question right into the debate, what exactly happened yesterday? We completely reconstructed it. I sincerely believe that perhaps I am not entirely objective in saying that he has honored his commitment here from A to Z. But there was only one country, and it was agreed that it had to be unanimous. 2 out of 28 is not exactly unanimous. What is only unfortunate is that the only ally subsequently blocked the not perfect solution, which made the Presidency conclusions rather than Council conclusions. It's not a wash nose either, because this is still very heavy. The fact that this has now been established, albeit in Presidency conclusions, is a real breakthrough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u63	May I ask a question, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u64	No, I want the Prime Minister to finish this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u65	I'm just finishing up the rounds of Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u66	There is also a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u67	I suspect that afterward Mr Verhoeven will look with me to see if there was still a dry twig between all that lover of the answer. Then we will have Greece, also linked to the question of Turkey. It is important that Greece gets its act together. I agree with Mr Segers and the other spokesmen who spoke about this. We must all contribute to this. We're doing the best we can. Last week, in the troika of the ambassadors, Slovakia, Malta and the Netherlands, there were three of them in the Presidency troika, consultations in the European Union. They were sent to work on this and to do it with EASO and Frontex. A Plan B for the EU-Turkey Agreements was requested. I wouldn't speculate on that. These EU-Turkey agreements are not only for the European Union; they are also for Turkey. Turkey also has an interest in this, because that obviously saw a huge stream of people walking from east to west. Those people got on those boats and took life-threatening risks. To be honest, Turkey is quite reasonable in keeping with these agreements. Quite specifically with regard to these agreements on migration, the problem is a little more on the Greek side than on the Turkish side. The net effect is that migration has been significantly reduced further towards Europe, which has been very much reduced, and that the number of deaths in the Aegean has also been greatly reduced. That was an important goal. Mrs Maij and other speakers asked about the reception facilities on the Greek islands. Of course, they must now be prepared for winter. 115 million from the European Commission is available for this purpose. A plan to improve reception conditions has now been developed at the request of State Secretary Klaas Dijkhoff. This involves close cooperation between the Commission, Greece, Member States, UNHCR and NGOs. This plan has also been given to the Court as an annex to the report of the JHA Council. Then back to Turkey, because this was the cup "Turkey refugees." They asked about the terrible attack and the fact that it was claimed. Unfortunately, there have been several terrible attacks in Turkey this year. They're all horrible. We deplore the victims and, of course, reject all forms of terrorism and terrorism. It indicates increasing tensions in Turkey. I do not only regret and condemn those attacks; we are, of course, trying to do everything we can to help reduce that tension. Research will have to determine exactly who was responsible. That attack was claimed by the TAK, a division of the PKK. We, the Netherlands, have no independent information position there. They also asked about the HDP members who were arrested. Do they have anything to do with that? I can say the following about this. Arrests are being made. If there are specific suspicions of involvement in an attack, that is understandable and acceptable. But we keep saying, and we keep saying that in cases like this, even in these terrible attacks, that the reaction must of course remain proportionate. You are aware of our concerns about the rule of law and previous arrests of HDP MPs. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Bert Koenders, also transferred it to Brussels yesterday. We therefore call for the peace process to be resumed between the Turkish authorities and the Kurdish groups. I have indeed taken note of the report. I take seriously the concerns expressed by Amnesty about the curfew. It is terrible that the conditions and levels of violence are sometimes such that measures such as safety zones with reduced mobility are needed. They simply hinder people's daily lives. The Turkish Government and the relevant Kurdish groups must put down arms and resume the Kurdish peace process. That is what we are calling for in our talks with Turkey. The European Union is doing the same, as is evident from the declaration of the 28th of 8 November. We'll keep doing that. I now turn to the Venice Commission report. We appreciate the independent research that has been done. We also share the serious concerns of the Venice Commission, which are also shared at European level. The Council of Europe has now embraced the Venice Commission report in plenary. That in itself is a strong message to Turkey, because Turkey is also a member of the Council of Europe. We will continue to convey our concerns to the Turkish authorities both bilaterally and within the EU framework. Yesterday Minister Koenders raised concerns about the situation in prisons in Turkey. It asked the Commission to examine the extent to which the European Union is supporting prisons where abuses are taking place. I understand that the first Vice-President of the European Commission, Timmermans, has promised to send a letter to the Chamber on this matter. We await the Commission's response before we draw any final conclusions. With regard to the benchmarks on visa liberalisation, yesterday's report of the JHA Council reported that the Netherlands has raised the concerns of the Chamber about Turkey's compliance with the benchmarks. In doing so, in accordance with what has been discussed here in the previous debate, we have advocated that a further progress report should also address the benchmarks that have already been concluded. The Commission recognises the importance of reporting on Turkey's progress on all benchmarks, i.e. not only on the outstanding benchmarks, which was the subject of the debate last time. The Commission will address this in a further report on the visa liberalisation pathway. There is no date yet for this, but this commitment requested by the Chamber has also been fulfilled. Those were the answers to the questions about Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u68	The latter is still in progress. I will be absolutely satisfied with that for now, because it seems that it cannot be dealt with before. I must also admit that there has been no blackmail on this point with the outstanding criteria. So I think some confidence is in order. On the other point: the Prime Minister is now saying that it is a very big breakthrough that the Foreign Minister has called for confirmation that talks with Turkey have stopped. On that point, I must disappoint the Prime Minister, because two weeks ago the Minister made a genuinely different commitment in the Chamber. That commitment really went further and was indeed a lot more concrete: on the basis of a majority present in that debate, it would be said that a six-month freeze would take place. I think that's really different. Can the Prime Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u69	Then I've been unclear. The breakthrough isn't that he made that point. The breakthrough is that thanks to him, yes, sometimes it is; I really think that Bert Koenders, the Foreign Minister, has played a major role in this, and has now been able to record in the Presidency conclusions the fact that it is already complicated in Europe that no chapters have been opened since 30 June and that this is not being considered in the current circumstances either. That's important. Chamber and cabinet wanted to achieve more. We wanted to make it clear that there would be a formal stop of six months, and that is what the Netherlands has advocated. Once again, we had only one ally, Austria. I guess that didn't work out. Then Koenders said that at least he wanted to achieve this. That was a huge fight, but he did it. However, Austria subsequently made it impossible to draw formal conclusions from the Council. These were the conclusions of the President. All this is not ideal; it is the second relapse, but not because Koenders did not want it or because the Chamber did not want it, but because Austria and the Netherlands wanted it first but not the other Member States and because Austria subsequently blocked the second, namely Council conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u70	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u71	There was a debate last week with the Foreign Trade Minister. There was some confusion about a motion, but a commitment has been made to the Chamber. The Prime Minister says that the Foreign Minister did honour that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u72	Really, completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u73	That commitment was to plead for a six-month freeze.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u75	No majority was found for that. In that case, the Chamber can jump high or low, but at least that commitment has been kept. What happened after that is not in the hands of the Netherlands alone. This includes the whole story with Austria and the other 26 Member States, as the Prime Minister has just explained. So the Prime Minister says that the commitment has been fully respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u76	Honestly, it's totally up and running. Even more than that, because when this did not work, he could have said: I kept the promise, but it did not work; sorry, Room. No, then he went to fight for the second, namely to record that nothing has happened since 30 June and that it is not obvious that something is going to happen. That seemed to work, but then Austria blocked it, because that went for the beauty of the perfect. Sometimes it's better to be the enemy of good. It was right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u77	I have a question about the Dutch Government's commitment to the talks with Turkey in the slightly longer term. Does the Prime Minister see Turkey becoming a member of the European Union between now and ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u78	I don't foresee that. When I look at the situation in Turkey, I cannot imagine it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u79	If the Prime Minister has to make a choice between Austria's clear position, which says that we must make a final point if we want to remain credible, and a muddy scenario in which we transfer some hundreds of millions of pre-accessional funds a year or let ourselves be held hostage by Turkey, what is the outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u80	I note that it is very, very unlikely that Turkey will become a member of the European Union within the time limit referred to by Mr Segers. I think that chance is minimal, if not practically absent. Miracles belong more in the Catholic Church, but sometimes they also occur in our faith; however, I do not consider them very likely. But to say that we are going for the other perfection, that is to say we are not doing anything anymore, seems to me unwise. Turkey is a member of NATO, an important bridge between Europe and Asia and an important geopolitical partner. That is why I think it is very important that Europe continues to engage in intensive dialogue with Turkey. I would find it unwise to stop altogether because of the human rights situation or the absence of a prospect of membership at the time Mr Segers calls it. I would be inclined to advise whoever will be sitting in my chair after 15 March. It is really important that we do not stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u81	Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u82	What are you talking about? If the Prime Minister's perspective is that Turkey will not become a member between now and ten years, if he doesn't see it happening and he doesn't want it because there are violations, then it can still be invested in all existing relationships, but also stopped talking about EU accession?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u83	That might be possible, but if you are talking to a partner who also thinks it is important to continue this, it is quite something to say that we refuse to talk about it at all. That might be some kind of showstopper on their part in that relationship. That is why I say: on a broad front, but be clear. Whether we are talking about visa liberalisation, accession and all these other things, you have criteria and they are very far away from accession. That is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u84	It is a little weak what has been discussed in the Foreign Affairs Council. A few years ago, Turkey stopped all negotiations for the sole reason that Cyprus was the official President of the European Union. Now Turkey has fired 120,000 officials and is throwing people in prison. The Prime Minister already referred to the Venice report which is destructive and which states that the risk of torture is very high if you can keep people imprisoned for 30 days without access to anything. You can't fire people without them going to court. It's a very long list. It's okay to enter a state of emergency, but what's going on in there isn't possible. And what does the European Union do? It notes a little weak that no new chapters are being opened. But yes, a single country can block that, so that was not a new conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u85	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u86	I have two questions. What official and political talks are still taking place with Turkey in the context of accession? So not in the context of the refugees, because I understand that this is being discussed. Are there still official and political discussions at the moment in the context of accession? How many of those calls have there been in the period between the coup and now? Indeed, I also have the Vice-President of the European Commission...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u87	First Vice-President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u88	The first Vice-President attaches even more importance to this than the Prime Minister has said. I asked the first Vice-President of the Commission if I could have a quick answer. I told you, you're paying 22 million dollars to expand prison capacity while you know they're being tortured there. This is stated by the UN and the Council of Europe. All the answers I get are pushing this all the way back and in the meantime we keep paying. When should we have an answer to the question of whether torture is taking place before we stop making such payments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u89	I have just replied to that last point. That's what the First Vice President is about, and I'm not ready when he intends to do that. The Commission has promised the Chamber that the first Vice-President will do so. Well, let's get to the main point. I understand Mr Omtzigt's disappointment. Secretary of State Koenders and the Chamber agree. We need to call for six months to stop the negotiations. There's no discussion about that. I agree with Mr Omtzigt that it was a sensible line of Chamber and Cabinet. But it didn't work. It has not only been established that we are not actually talking, but it has also been established that this is not being considered. Mr Omtzigt himself is experienced in the field of foreign policy. He knows you can make it small by saying it's nothing. However, I do know a bit about how things turned out in the Council yesterday and you can also say that a special achievement has been achieved. Moreover, it is not a performance for which the outsider is immediately placed on the benches. We know how complicated it can be and how important this signal is to Turkey. This is now in the Presidency conclusions. The only country to stop this is Austria. It doesn't do that because it's not with it, but because it wants more. That is an important fact. Then there's the question about the contacts. I can't talk about this for sure. I would like to ask the Foreign Office to comment on this in a further letter on Turkey. I know that there have been no formal talks on the chapters already opened since 30 June. However, I cannot see it at work. I haven't been able to figure it out, so I can't help but give these answers. Perhaps, in a subsequent report to the Chamber, we could discuss what contacts there have been since 30 June. I can now say that there have been no formal discussions on the chapters that have already been opened. I can't see if there's been any informal contact at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u90	I am not talking about informal contact, but about formal contact, including at work level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u91	Formal discussions have not taken place. At least that's what I've been given here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u92	I would like you to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the next agenda of the General Affairs Council...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u93	I'm gonna take a look at my officials. I see they're nodding "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u94	You will then let us know what kind of conversations have taken place and are still taking place. I call on the Prime Minister to do the following. We fear not only that torture has taken place in Turkish prisons, but also that we have also made the funds available for that purpose. That's pretty embarrassing, isn't it? I would like Mr Timmermans to be strongly urged to have this sorted out within a few weeks and to be able to report on what happened there. Perhaps this can be done on the basis of the CPT report. The Turks also continue to keep secret the Council of Europe's report on possible or no torture in Izmir, Istanbul and Ankara prisons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u95	This was a promise from him to the Chamber. I don't really want to get in the middle of that. We can, of course, ask the first Vice-President's cabinet what his timing is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u96	Just a procedural point. I do not have a formal working relationship with Mr Timmermans and the European Commission. I can only formally call the Prime Minister to account. He's directing this request now. Someone else needs to figure it out. However, Dutch taxpayers' money is used for this, even if it comes from the EU budget. It is quite right that I should appeal to the Dutch Government to do so. I want to have some insight into this before 15 January. I do not care whether this goes directly or through the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u97	Anyway, I'm just as formal. It was a promise from him, regardless of whether or not he can do so. Apparently, the Chamber had a meeting with him and he made that commitment. I'm going back to that promise first. Nor do I have a formal relationship with the first Vice-President other than that I like him very much and respect him very much. So I'm gonna go check it with his cabinet in the sense of, "Oh, French, you promised this to the Chamber, what's your schedule, because the Chamber would like it to be quick?" I'll see if I can. Yeah, that's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u98	My conclusion on these accession negotiations with Turkey is that Austria has kept its back and not the Netherlands. We have abandoned Austria. That is my summary conclusion. You can call in all kinds of technical side streets, but that's the main line. I have the next question. Perhaps there are further arguments for moving towards Turkey. We are getting signals that Erdogan has replaced several Turkish officers within NATO posts in Brussels and London with anti-Western officers who are pro-Russian. Does the Prime Minister know these signals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u99	No. Mr Bontes' first remark has so nothing to do with how you manage things, that I do not go into them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u100	The Prime Minister left a like-minded Austria in the cold. I don't think that's nice, but okay. I wanted to make a point of this, because that is how I look at it. My core question was about the replacement of Turkish military forces in NATO by anti-Western and pro-Russian soldiers. Can the Prime Minister look at this and, if possible, make a point of it at the European summit? After all, we are dealing with a danger. We can laugh it away and we can bagalize it by saying "I don't know them," but everyone knows those messages because they've been on the Daily Mail site and they're everywhere to read. The Prime Minister doesn't know them. I think it's ridiculous that the Prime Minister doesn't know that kind of message, but okay. Would he like to look into it and make a point of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u101	I can't promise here that I'm gonna pick out every rumor, can I? No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u102	Surely it is a dangerous and serious problem when NATO is infiltrated? That's dangerous, isn't it? That's threatening, isn't it? That's not easy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u103	Facts. Because there's something on a website somewhere, I can't... The reality is more than websites, I say to Mr Bontes. Watch this! You can't just accuse allies of all sorts of things because of rumors or because Mr. Bontes mentions them here? I don't know the rumor. I'm not going after every rumor. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u104	I would like to come back to the shelter in Greece, because that was also part of this block. The Prime Minister said that the shelter is "winter-ready." Honestly, I find that word something uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u105	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u106	However, I understand what the Minister means by that. My question focused not only on the quality of reception, but also on the asylum procedure, which would be set up there and really improved. My question focused on resettlement. Of course, those are two other parts. I didn't hear about that from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u107	The Netherlands is pretty much at the forefront of the resettlement process. We urge colleagues to do more. Tomorrow I will have another one-on-one meeting with my Greek colleague on the agenda so that we can talk about this. I will bring this to your attention again, because this is really a point that has been sticking me in the throat since March. We made a deal. However, there were problems with the appeal and with the professional committees, the composition of which subsequently changed. I understand it all, but in March we made these agreements. The Greek colleague was there too. We all have to live up to our commitments now. I have to say that Turkey is doing it quite correctly on this point, and we expect it to do so in Greece. Through this interruption I feel very strongly to bring this to the attention of Alexis Tsipras tomorrow with firmness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u108	Part of the asylum procedure was also that people from other countries would help. I understand that this is far from happening, no matter how much assistance comes from the other European Member States. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u109	I will look into it further, but one of the problems that I know is that you can send people, but they also need to be able to do something. The Greeks must therefore also leave them to work. I will see if I can get a little more information on aid from third countries in asylum procedures for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u110	It's not just about help there, it's about relocation and shelter elsewhere. In this respect, other countries are also lagging behind and the Netherlands is not doing what it initially promised. We can give ourselves a plume, but we can't make it to the numbers we promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u111	Yes, but the Netherlands is really leading the way, Mr Segers. I think we're number one, two or three. I'll see what the score is. I would argue that we do not completely lose the orchestra, but the orchestra has to pull a leg. I very much agree with Mr Segers on this. I therefore strongly urge you to do so. Everyone just has to live up to the whole deal... the settlement, the relocation and the 160,000. There will then be a series of proposals on how we should deal with this in the future, because that is also on the agenda, and then there will be many ideas on asylum policy, but I would say that these agreements must be implemented first. Totally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u112	In particular, some Eastern European countries are really lagging behind in terms of reception and the other things they have promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u113	That's right. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u114	There is now only a reproach for Greece, but we must also mention these countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u115	That's perfectly right. In Greece, I am thinking of the implementation of its part of the refugee agreements with Turkey, but I am also thinking of the Eastern European countries and other countries. I thought France does a lot and we do a lot. We'll keep our end of the bargain. That is also possible because those numbers have fallen. There must be as much reception as possible in the region, but we must be prepared to bring manageable numbers to Europe through resettlement and resettlement. That is what I have always said, and that is what the letter of 8 September of last year actually says. This fits in and that's why I'm here. I would much rather do that than have people on the run go to Berlin and say: here I am. I'm gonna move on to the Brexit. Let there be no doubt that the Dutch interests are at the forefront of this. In response to the motion, Secretary of State Van Dam said that he was going to map this together with the sector. They will continue to do so. The truth is that we will not really be able to talk to the United Kingdom about the consequences and risks until the United Kingdom has notified. That's what we agreed with the 27: only negation after notification. So we're going to be notified first, then we're going to negotiate. By then, we will also know what role the landing obligation will play in the discussion. This also depends on the shape that the United Kingdom will ultimately choose from its desired future relationship with the European Union. We know the bottlenecks surrounding the landing obligation that occur in practice. As you know, we are committed to realistic implementation. We are doing this by examining, in close consultation with the fisheries sector, what species could possibly be excluded from it. It is not on the agenda of this European Council, but fishing is one of the most beautiful sectors we have. Of course, the sectors in our agriculture and horticulture and the other agricultural sectors are all beautiful, but of course this sector has the special sympathy of this Scheveningen boy. So let there be no doubt that we are on top of this. However, they will have to press Article 50. What exactly is being discussed about the Brexit at the European Council and what will be the Dutch commitment? Well, there's that dinner. Of course I don't want to bring down the quality of the food too far, because there are very nice people cooking there. With that quality it's not that bad, but okay. That is what will be discussed during that dinner. The most important thing will be to talk about the negotiation process, so how we are going to organise this. So it will not be so much about what we want to get out of it, because first you need to know what the British want, but about how we are going to organise it. It is particularly important who will act as the main negotiator on our behalf. It is likely that this will be the Commission, in Barnier's person. We can support that. It is also a good thing, because the Commission has the apparatus to monitor the complexity and technique of the negotiations. We do attach great importance to the fact that the Commission has a clear mandate from the EU-27. The Council must therefore give a clear mandate, which also confirms the close involvement of the Council in the negotiations. I therefore want a substantive mandate and the involvement of the Council. Transparency is also important. I think it is very important that the national parliaments have the same information position as the European Parliament. Or let me put it another way: they have no worse information position than the European Parliament. That is what we shall be advocating. Furthermore, there is the importance of unity, so that we stick together. That is why it is right that we start preparations in good time. If we agree on that line, the EU-27 is expected to make a statement on this tomorrow. But this is what it is all about: the Council is involved and the Commission with its apparatus is our forward-looking position. It is very important that all this goes well. One more point about the Brexit: when will the Chamber be informed about the Dutch commitment? I can inform the Chamber that, of course, we will try to keep her well involved in the whole process. We have also done so in the case of the government's juice valuation which we sent in the United Kingdom day after the referendum. We have also done so in the case of the so-called Bratislava letter, the annotated agendas and reports and so on. Once again, the aim is that this Parliament will be at least as well informed as the European Parliament. It will be done through the usual procedures. A technical briefing to the Chamber was also planned on 20 December. The room knows about that. But again, the formal Dutch commitment is shared directly, or at least as soon as possible, with the Chamber after notification by the United Kingdom. Here's about the task force. We are closely involved in this at both political and administrative level. There is close contact with similar Member States. Our Council of Ministers has already sat at the table with Mr Barnier. This requires a lot of official preparation. The task force is under the responsibility of the foreign minister, Mr Koenders. I can assure you that, if necessary, the telephone will be picked up to underline our interests with the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u116	I have no doubt that Mr Koenders will call Mr Barnier, but I have another problem. Both at the Bratislava Summit and at this summit, we have not been able to see any formal document on the commitment, either confidentially or publicly. The Prime Minister is now saying that the Dutch commitment will not be announced until the moment it is notified. But the 27 Member States have been negotiating for months what their common position should be. There is no negotiation with Great Britain, because this is only officially done at the time of ratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u117	There are no negotiations between the 27 Member States, no way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u118	Please continue, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u119	Let me say it quite frankly: I cannot imagine that all these discussions, during an extra Bratislava dinner, only talk about the agendas and what happens when. It will also discuss the substance of what is happening with freedom of movement and how important it is for EU nationals, who now live in Britain, to be able to live there. Do we give Britain the right to the capital market, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u120	I will push the officials upside down in the water in a moment, but I also see them nodding strongly now that I am right: we are talking about the process. That's where we'll try to lay an egg tomorrow. We are also discussing the future of the 27 Member States in the Bratislava process, Europe without the UK. This should ultimately lead to a first result by the end of March by 60 years of the Treaty of Rome. The Chamber has been informed of that. At that meeting in Bratislava, the Presidency suddenly put a piece on the table, which I did not know before. So I couldn't send that to the Chamber either. It was going to be a leg-on-table conversation. Eventually there were no dangerous things in that piece and we could just share it, but I was not happy with it because you do not want to be attacked by all kinds of pieces at such a meeting. So I understand Mr Omtzig's irritation. We will always try to do it in line with normal procedures. Mr Omtzigt and I have often had a discussion about the precise procedures surrounding European documents. I am going to tell Mr Omtzig something: I am not super-expert in this area. The more general traffic between the Chamber and the Cabinet will require Mr Omtzigt, on the understanding that leadership is also delegated, to discuss in particular with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He can see the whole of it, so how the communication between the Councils, the European Council and the Chamber takes place. I see Mr Mulder laughing; he recognizes this from me. I'm really not an expert in this field. I never know exactly. Today, because of the legal advice on Ukraine, I had to find out exactly what happened and why I shouldn't send it. Mr Omtzigt has a complete degree in this field. I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u121	That's not out of interest, it's out of irritation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u122	Yeah, I can feel it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u123	I do have other things I want to study on. I will at another moment do the exhortation that I have written something about referenda for my master's thesis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u124	I'm gonna light it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u125	I figured this was gonna happen sometime. But this is something else. There are all kinds of protocols for when we get the normal EU documents. This alone does not concern the EU. These are the 27 Member States which share pieces without using the official institutions of the EU. So we can't see those pieces in the portal and we can't get them in the normal way. The Prime Minister is now saying: we were given a piece of the Slovak Presidency that was nothing. By the way, I've rarely seen such pissed-off conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u126	Ah, you saw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u127	Yeah, I saw it. It just said, "We got a piece and took note of it." Furthermore, I think they just put it on the side of the table. That wouldn't have been fun with those legs on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u128	I couldn't possibly comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u129	It came from multiple angles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u130	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u131	Can we get that piece, and can we hear afterwards what was discussed at the Brexit dinner so that we do not know in detail but on the main lines what direction the Union wants to go? There are certainly no small themes to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u132	Here again immediately revenges my total lack of knowledge about which pieces we may and may not share. I am now communicating with the officials and I see that after the European Council that piece is shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u133	This point has already been raised a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u134	The interesting thing is that the rules that the Prime Minister is not allowed to send me those other documents do not apply now because they are not formal EU law. That's what makes it so much fun. The Prime Minister can send anything, because he hasn't signed a confidentiality agreement anywhere. So do it as soon as possible, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u135	I wish the Prime Minister a tasty meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u136	I shouldn't have brought up the food.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u137	I understand that the more procedural side of the Brexit is being discussed there. The thrust of my contribution was to look at the future of the new EU. I understand that this issue has been raised before; that is clear. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how the Chamber is involved in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u138	This is done through the annotated agendas and reports and, in particular, through the State of the Union. There are the very broad lines of the way we look at Europe. That focuses on the core tasks and not on hassle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u139	These are indeed moments of information, but when will the debate be held in the Chamber? What does the Court see as the EU's new style? When will this debate take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u140	Would this not be a wonderful subject for a general debate with the Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u141	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u142	I believe that the Foreign Minister should also be there, but at least the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u143	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u144	Then I'll see you both coming. That may be the promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u145	I believe that I am always present in the debate on the state of the Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u146	Can the point of the debate on this with the Chamber? How do we see the future of the EU from the Netherlands? Are you going to be explicitly on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u147	I'm not asking for debates. I formally note that we are discussing the State of the Union at some point. I'll be there. Then all Members of Parliament will have their European colleagues with them. That is, of course, a special debate. I can easily imagine that next time the debate will be important about the more fundamental questions for the coming years, given that the UK is leaving us. In that sense, I think we are already going to do this, but I cannot, of course, discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u148	I have to laugh at the Prime Minister when he says the Foreign Minister is about that. People who have real influence always say, "I'm insignificant." I get that impression. We have spoken here a few times about the provision of information to the Chamber. Mr Omtzigt even started with that. This is gradually beginning to cloud the debate, because the image is emerging that the cabinet does not inform the Chamber. That's pretty firm. My suggestion to the Prime Minister is therefore to agree on the provision of information to the Chamber on the Brexit which is coming. Then we do not have to say in every debate: it has to be and it does not have to be. That clouds the debate. Is the Prime Minister prepared to agree with the Chamber on what she gets and why?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u149	Let's see if we can do that in second term. That saves us a letter, and then we can settle it right away. I will see if I can answer this question in the second term. If that doesn't work, I'll do it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u150	Thank you. There was another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u151	Yes. So much for the Brexit. There were some questions about my speech in Warsaw. I'm glad you've all taken note of that. I thought it was a good speech myself. Without fooling around, I'll say a few things about this. The main questions related to this were the whole migration process. Against the background of the questions about the speech, I will say something about the migration compacts. The spokesmen of the PvdA and the VVD and others have asked for this. In recent years, there has been a lot of work on this with Niger, Nigeria, Mali, Senegal and Ethiopia. Much has been invested in the relationship with priority countries, including through official and political visits. Bert Koenders was recently, last weekend, in Mali and Niger. The results will also be visible. Transit through Niger has been at the lowest point since May. This has also to do with IOM programmes (the International Organisation for Migration programmes), which have led to a doubling of voluntary return from Niger to countries of origin. There's money in that too. The approach to trafficking in human beings has also contributed to this. Eighty-two smugglers have recently been arrested. At the same time, there are still major problems on the central Mediterranean route, including terrible drownings. Therefore, a continued commitment of EU institutions and Member States is necessary, with a very active role for the Netherlands. That will have to be coherent. It's always As the agreements between Turkey and Europe fit into an en- en-en policy, it will also be an en-en process to control the Mediterranean route, removing the root causes of migration and giving countries such as Niger, who want to help, a central role. Finding countries willing to organise reception capacity to follow up from that reception capacity will also be very important. Last week, when I visited Tunisia, I advocated the following: why should countries such as Tunisia, Morocco and Egypt not be much more active in the Mediterranean? Then it is also possible to bring people back to Tunisia and then, in accordance with all international rules, allow them to go through the procedures there. The fact is that people sometimes sail with fuel for a minimal part of the Mediterranean and assume that they are taken over by large ships of Europe, partly very specific from frontline state Italy. This creates a kind of ferry service to Europe. That's bad, because a lot of people are still drowning and a lot of people don't stand a chance of asylum. That is why I believe that we should do everything in an "en-en-en-en" approach: prevent drowning, destroy the business model and learn from the agreements with Turkey, Greece and Europe. This also includes a much more active role of a number of North African countries. They are prepared to do so. That's gonna cost you. Good reception capacity will have to be organised there. That is where all the procedures will have to be followed. I think that's the only way to get this done. It's an extremely complex process. It's really going one step at a time. We sat together this morning and again decided that the Netherlands itself will make an even more active contribution to this. Finally, on this point. Mrs Maij asked about the arrangements made by Mr Koenders with Mali. The EU and Mali have agreed on a comprehensive approach in the following areas: cooperation in job creation for young people, improving information systems for registration and border surveillance, protection of transiting migrants in Mali against trafficking in human beings and, very importantly, contributing to the return of displaced Malian asylum seekers from the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u152	Are you ready at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u153	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u154	Brief question, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u155	The fact that you are trying to make agreements about returning to a country of origin is, of course, fine and also logical. But where's the border? Suppose people come to Europe via Niger and Libya with boats, have no right to asylum and go back. Is the European Union really going to tell Niger to take on these people, even if they are not from Niger but from another country? In addition, we say de facto: figure it out a little bit, it's not about your own citizens but about citizens of countries around you, which we happen to have no deal with; here you have a bag of money, take care of it. Is that what the European Union is trying to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u156	That all sounds very negative. I would like to put that more positively: that is reception capacity in the region, including for people who cannot yet return to their own country. That is, in fact, what we are doing with Turkey. There, too, we are investing in reception capacity for people who cannot yet return to Syria. That is also what we are doing with the migration pacts with Lebanon and Jordan. So you make sure that care can be organized as well as possible. In the end, we really have to get away from the fact that the Mediterranean route is actually some kind of public transport service to Europe. As long as this remains the case, there will be a huge draining effect, resulting in huge numbers of deaths in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u157	I think the comparison with the situation in Iraq is totally cynical. There is a total war zone there. You wouldn't send someone back there at all, even if you could. You will see if you can support with each other in the region. My example from sub-Saharan Africa is, of course, a completely different example. That is what the European Union is putting pressure on countries to organise reception for large parts of Africa, as it happens to have no deal with other countries. Isn't that what you're crossing a very heavy border with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u158	I would like to make a procedural comment. It really has to be about the issues that are going to be raised at the summit. We are talking almost every week about asylum, immigration policy, return policy, reception in the region and so on. So I do not want us to repeat the debate on these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u159	I have to remain silent, because that will not be the case in this degree of detail tomorrow. I would like to answer the question briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u160	Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u161	In the ideal world, Mr Grashoff is right. But there isn't. Look what's happening right now. People are dying on the Mediterranean. There are a lot of people arriving in Italy who do not have a chance of asylum in Europe, and then not all of them stay in Italy. That's gonna cause a lot of trouble. Look what is happening in the north of the Netherlands right now. That is not acceptable, of course. I'm referring to the nuisance that takes place in Groningen and Ter Apel. Those are all people who have to go back, who have no chance of asylum here and kicking a huge mess. I want to make it clear that for those who really flee war and violence, there is always a possibility of shelter in Europe, including in the region, all along the lines of 8 September. But this should preferably be done in a way where we organise it from within the region. People shouldn't get on a boat like that themselves. And if they do, then I think it makes sense that countries in the region themselves are also trying to prevent that and to bring people back to safe countries in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u162	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u163	How realistic is it to expect countries such as Tunisia, Morocco and Egypt to be able to arrange this reception while Greece is not yet able to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u164	That's gonna cost you. I have said many times: Europe must be prepared to invest heavily in this type of business. Anyway, we won't try to make a comparison. I can say that in Tunisia, Morocco and Egypt there are some well-functioning public authorities, but that is not the case in some areas either. So you're gonna have to look at all that. What we are doing now is to continue to have a sucking effect from Europe, to continue to cross the Mediterranean with all its consequences, such as unrest in Europe and, above all, people who die during the journey, it is a cynicism! We really have to try to get rid of that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u165	Is the Prime Minister seriously going to argue for more European money in these areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u166	We already do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u167	Yeah, we are. But that is, of course, something which is not always getting off the ground in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u168	No, we really are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u169	We keep shouting in the Netherlands that we have to do this. And then the Prime Minister says in all honesty: yes, I really do. It's not just pushing those people away, but it's sending money there too, so they can be well taken care of. Fine! But then it has to be settled at some point. And if it's not settled, then we're really gonna have to do it another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u170	This point has been raised so many times. It will also come back repeatedly in the coming period. I understand this summit is not about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u171	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u172	The Prime Minister can argue for this at that summit, so it is something that the Chamber can judge and discuss with the Prime Minister ahead of that summit as his message there. That is absolutely the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u173	I want a quick answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u174	Mr Verhoeven is right that the whole Valletta Summit in November 2015 was aimed at organising these things in a much more structured way. It costs money. I also think that we should look at how we can use existing resources to improve living conditions and organise reception capacity smarter. Let me give you an example. I was going to go along with my colleague Matteo Renzi, who has now resigned after the referendum, and so it is sometimes going to be in Europe, under the guidance of the Commission and High Representative Federica Mogherini, to pick up a few things in the region, because we really need to do this together. The Heads of Government and the Commission must do this together, just as the Commission, Germany and the Netherlands took the lead in the deal between Turkey and Greece. That is all going to have to happen. It'll be en-and-and-and. We have to take care of everything. But at the end of the day, let's send the right signal to the people who threaten to sail out of territorial waters with just 10 to 15 miles of fuel, and then say, "Oh, we're sinking, we're being caught." We need to end this sucking effect. It's humiliating!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u175	Before I give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder, I say to Mr Grashoff that he has just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u176	I want to correct one thing. It's just on the agenda of the summit. It is therefore part of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u177	The agenda also includes the results of migration compacts. High Representative Mogherini would give the results. Are these results already known and do the Prime Minister think they are sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u178	I'll take a quick look, because I saw the answer to that question in my answer set. But the answer is not on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u179	Otherwise, you will return to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u180	I'll see if I can find the answer. Otherwise, I shall return to that in the second term. I've seen that answer in the set.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u181	We still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u182	I have the answer in front of me now. I'm so good! Let's see. I'd already discussed the question. That is why I put the answer aside. It was about the question of Niger, Nigeria, Mali, Senegal and Ethiopia. So I just answered that question. There's been an investment. The first results are visible. Transit through Niger has been at the lowest point since May. At the same time, however, this does not translate into a reduction in the number of drownings and the irregular influx. Let me add something to the answer given earlier. There are 173.000 arrivals including 59.000 from compact countries in 2016. So those numbers are way too high. So en-and-and-policy. Then the group of other questions, starting with Aleppo. Bert Koenders: I will condemn what is happening in Aleppo in the strongest terms. There is a humanitarian catastrophe there that we have not seen for a long time and which we thought would never happen again. The Secretary-General of the United Nations has expressed Ban Ki-moon's grave concern at reports of extreme atrocities against civilians in Aleppo, including women and children. It is important that there is clarity here as soon as possible. This will certainly be discussed at the European Council tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u183	Very briefly, Mrs. Maij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u184	I'm always very short, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u185	Well, what can I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u186	I saw a message passing by that the Foreign Minister called on the ambassadors of Iran and Russia. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u187	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u188	That was short indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u189	Then there is the question of how the Posting of Workers Directive is being amended. We continue to work for that. It is now being discussed in the Council and the Netherlands is drawing on this very actively. We saw earlier this year after the yellow card that the European Commission has reconsidered the proposal and decided to maintain it. Malta sees this issue as a priority. The European Parliament, too, is our own Agnes Jongerius, where the rapporteur, Mr Jongerius, must establish a position. We're not there yet, but we're working hard on it. I have already answered the question about migration in an interruption. These are interesting proposals from the Slovak Presidency, but they cannot replace the existing commitment. We have also talked about relocation by other Member States. I have promised you that I will return to this in the second term, but I can do that already. We are currently seeing that, under the resettlement decision of 20 July 2015, a total of 13,887 vulnerable refugees have been repatriated to the EU, including 800 in the Netherlands. The EU-Turkey Declaration also includes resettlement. In the meantime 2,761 Syrians have been safely repatriated from Turkey to EU countries and Norway. We contribute to that, we are one of the frontrunners. 70 Syrians have now been transferred to the Netherlands on the basis of these agreements and are giving more and more Member States to include Syrian refugees from Turkey. There are also countries that did not do this at first, such as Estonia and Lithuania. I can withdraw the undertaking that I will return to this in the second term. Then there is the Italian referendum. I do not need to repeat the result, but of course it is important that Italian politics remain strong. This led to a question about the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, the MPS bank, my Italian is not faultless. That MPS bank has been trying to strengthen capital for some time and to take some of the problem loans off the balance sheet. The supervisor is about the time limit within which capital must be raised. That is before the end of the year in this case. The bank is talking to private investors to raise new capital. If this is not possible and if the Italian government wants to provide capital, it can do so under strict conditions. European rules must be respected, both the rules of the Banking Union and the rules of European state aid. It is permissible for viable banks to receive temporary capital support for unexpected losses. The State aid rules require a burden-sharing, a bail-in of the shares in the junior debt for such aid. That instrument is also called the so-called preventive recapitalisation, so it all comes within the rules. Then there are the risks of withdrawal from TARGET2. This question has already been addressed in this week's letter from the Minister for Finance on Italy. Apparently, that answer's already in the Chamber. I see Mr Omtzigt shooting up now, but I have no more answer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u190	Are you done with the other business?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u191	No, I'm not quite done yet. Mr Omtzig asked about EFSI what the financial risks are if there is not enough guarantee capital. We have focused on a solid embedding of the extension of EFSI guarantee into the EU budget. This ensures that adequate guarantee capital is held to cover any losses. I cannot, of course, anticipate the consequences of a possible UK withdrawal on the EU budget, all of which are parts of the negotiations after Article 50. One more question about the hybrid mismatches directive. I have good news on that point. The Minister of Finance has already acted on Mr Merkie's motion. At the Ecofin Council on 6 December, he did not call for a long delay, but merely pointed out that the proposal for a directive on hybrid mismatches has a significant impact on companies established in the Netherlands. That is why he asked for a later implementation date, optionally if necessary. But, according to the motion, we have not asked for a long delay. Finally, I come to Oxfam and international tax havens. We cannot place the conclusions that Oxfam draws. The Netherlands is an open economy with an international business. We are at the forefront when it comes to information exchange, about rulings, about country-by-country reporting and so on. We are taking measures to ensure that the phenomenon of empty mailbox companies will eventually disappear. Dutch laws and regulations on trust offices have been extended in recent years and supervision has been further strengthened. The Netherlands has also actively approached 23 developing countries to include anti-abuse measures in our bilateral treaties. I think I have answered all the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u192	Mr Omtzigt has been at the interrupting microphone for some time. He's asking a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u193	There was a letter coming. It said: there is no risk because we do not run the risk of leaving countries. So there's no problem with TARGET2. The explicit question is: what is the financial risk if one country decides at any time, voluntarily or donated, to step out of the euro? Have we lost tens of billions under the TARGET2 system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u194	Mr. Omtzigt, I'm really getting ready. You'll see. I am preparing the points that have been raised. However, TARGET2 and the consequences of the withdrawal of a country from the euro will not be discussed at the European Council tomorrow. Could Mr Omtzigt not raise this in another debate with Jeroen Dijsselbloem? Otherwise, this will be a kind of press conference or Question Time which will cover everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u195	I dream of it, but I won't do it to the Prime Minister. After all, one madman can ask more questions than ten wise men can answer. And the Prime Minister is here alone. Can the Prime Minister then urge the Minister of Finance to provide a substantive answer? Now the answer is: it won't happen...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u196	I don't want to be a handover to the other members of the cabinet either, Mr. President. The Chamber debates weekly with the Minister of Finance. When I call Jeroen Dijsselbloem, he's always in the Chamber. At least, that's what he's saying. So I do not know how many opportunities Mr Omtzigt has to ask him that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u197	We're gonna keep track. With this we have arrived at the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u198	Mr. Chairman. The outcome of the referendum on Ukraine was clear: no is no. Instead of withdrawing the treaty, the Prime Minister is going to work with a rabbit from the top hat: the legal statement. It's nice try, but it doesn't add anything, especially if Ukraine doesn't sign. The Prime Minister is now wriggling in all sorts of turns in the hope that the Chamber will support him. The SP isn't in on that. Friday we'll get a ruling. We'll find out if he has a deal with the Member States. If he doesn't have a deal, the treaty's still off the table. If he does have a deal, the parliament still has to agree. I am counting on a sensible choice that reflects the outcome of the referendum. So far, the Prime Minister has suspected a great deal of the European elite he was throwing out this week because he would not listen to the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u199	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Prime Minister. This debate has a few hallucinating features, especially when it comes to the Ukraine referendum. The neekamp, the SP and the PVV, first make all sorts of false claims. All kinds of parties then try to do justice to the outcome by responding to the content of these claims through a legally binding text. But then the people of the camp suddenly don't think that's important anymore and it wouldn't be anything. That is what they say, while at the same time the Prime Minister in Europe must try to achieve something that we will not know until tomorrow. I think this is an extremely strange way of doing things. I see Mr Van Dijk walking out of the Chamber as we speak. I get that. The same goes for the CDA, of course. On the one hand, that party is opposed to binding referendums. The CDA Group was in favour of the treaty. In the Lower House the group is now opposed to ratification and it seems that the CDA group in the Upper House will be in favour again. That too, of course, is inimitable. And then there are all kinds of questions about the extent to which the treaty is legally binding. That is what Mr Omtzigt is asking when he has actually already said that he will be voting against. It's all pretty tricky. D66 is just waiting to see what the Prime Minister's coming up with. That is what we have always said. We're going to assess that on the content. We're very curious if he can do it. Then Turkey. That is an equally foggy and vague route, but I have good news for the Prime Minister. He may not be interested at all, but I'd like to tell him anyway. I would have liked to have tabled a motion to uphold the commitment to freeze negotiations with Turkey in the six months' time. In fact, what I read in the report was too vague. However, according to what the Prime Minister said, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has actually tried to implement the commitment to the House of Representatives. I am satisfied with that for the moment and will not table a motion on it. I will, of course, keep an eye on it, because the point remains that we have felt, for a very long time, that the refugee deal package, accession talks and visa liberalisation is a kind of wall that we are all heading for and we are pretending that we will never get to that wall. I'm afraid at some point we're gonna crash into that wall. I wish the Prime Minister every success tomorrow. We're gonna hear it, see it, read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u200	Mr Van Dijk, one question and please be very brief, because there has been enough discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u201	That's right. I thought I'd let Mr Verhoeven finish his tight monologue and in the meantime I could comb my hair on the toilet. But I got another sneer anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u202	You may correct that for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u203	I would remind Mr Verhoeven of his firm statement one day after the referendum. Mr Verhoeven said: no is no, withdraw that treaty. Unfortunately, I don't hear that sound anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u204	That is because I have repeatedly explained that we felt that withdrawal was the best way to implement the referendum. Nine months later, we still think it is necessary to respond to the objections of the no-voters in substance. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u205	Madam President. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. There's only one question left. I can imagine, however, that it will be discussed with the State of the Union. That question concerned my general concern that the gas pedal in Brussels should now be pressed in terms of defence, intelligence services and the role of Moscovici, who took on a significant role. Sometimes there seems to be two parallel universes. We are talking about European cooperation and we see its importance, but at the same time we are stressing the nation state and democratic control through national parliaments. At the same time, you will see in Brussels, as I said, that the accelerator is going to be pressed. I think it would be a good idea for the Prime Minister, in the run-up to the State of the Union, to explain what his great commitment is in that regard. If those parallel universes are indeed going to run apart, we are gonna lose the basis for cooperation. He expressed his concerns about this in Warsaw. I share it, because those parallel universes must come together in sober European policies, in which we are talking about cooperation and in which we are not working towards a federal Europe. We have already asked all the questions about Ukraine. We see the considerations and interests that need to be weighed up. We'll wait and see what the cabinet comes back with, and then we'll make a final judgment. As far as refugees are concerned, the Prime Minister has heard my encouragement not only to look at Greece, but also to the countries of Eastern Europe and whether they really keep the promise they have made. The Prime Minister has promised. Thank you for that. Finally, our fishermen. I understand the Prime Minister in such a way that, when it comes to the first minor explanation of the motion, we are going to talk about the obligation to land and say: no, we will actively defend the interests of our fishermen. That's how I understood him and I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u206	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first motion is satisfaction for those who voted no and who are concerned about corruption in Ukraine. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the period 2014-2020 the European Union made available no less than EUR 11.2 billion for a support package to Ukraine;]] [[whereas the European Court of Auditors has recently indicated that these billions of investments have little effect and that the corrupt elite are still leading the country;]] [[whereas the European Court of Auditors states that it is not possible to check how the money is actually spent;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to prevent the corrupt elite in Ukraine from using the support package for their own purposes;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to this billion-dollar aid to Ukraine at European level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1174]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u207	My second motion is brief. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Prime Minister Rutte indicated at a European Liberal Congress that migrant boats should be picked up off the coast of Italy and towed back to safe countries in North Africa;]] [[whereas he stated that European ships should no longer operate as ferries;]] [[calls on the Government to make concrete commitments on this issue at the European Council of 15 and 16 December 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1175]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u208	Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is waiting for what the cabinet will present on Friday with regard to the Ukraine referendum. I note that this debate has not convinced us so far either. I have sat with some frowns in the eyebrows listening to the Prime Minister's speech about Ukraine's failure to sign the additional declaration. I think there's a wonderful element in that. I'll come back to the migration deals, the migration compacts. It seems that the European Union's commitment actually crosses moral limits. It is not about making agreements with countries to take back residents, but about making agreements to take back refugees at all, no matter where they come from. That seems to us to be a bad thing. I will not be tabling a motion on this at the moment, because the matter will undoubtedly come back at other times. But let it be clear: at least this commitment does not have the agreement of the Green Left Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u209	I do not see Mr Monasch in the Chamber anymore. Mr Beertema stated that he did not give up his second term contribution. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u210	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. It was clear and clear, as we're used to him. However, I would like to emphasise, also in line with what Mr Segers said in the second term, that you are constantly seeing from EU bodies an attempt to increase their influence and increase their involvement. If we want to deal with this in a sensible way and not, above all, continue to follow it, I think it is right to hold a debate on it in the not too long term. It can be very good and logical to do so, for example, when dealing with the State of the Union. I would be grateful if we could get a move on from the cabinet, so that we can have a piece to discuss it thoroughly. I would appreciate it if the Prime Minister could undertake to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u211	Mr. Chairman. I think there have been some very important issues in this debate, but I am sorry that the labour market aspect has ended up in the grabbelton of the answer. It is indeed very important for the Labour Party that we start working on labour mobility and tackling its abuse within the European Union. Commissioner Thyssen has a very clear commitment on this point. In reply to my question, the Prime Minister has confirmed that we, the Netherlands, are again working hard to adapt the Detaching Directive in such a way that the gap in it, which really undermines the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place in the Netherlands in some places, is closed. Once again, it is a pity that at the end this is being pushed in a bit, because this is an important part that I think will be on the agenda tomorrow. I thank the Prime Minister for answering the other questions. It is good to hear that with regard to the reception of refugees towards Greece, there is not only a search for an improvement in reception so that people can spend the day and the night there, but also an improvement in the process, so that people do not sit there for very long. I have spoken in my first term about months; perhaps they will be years later. There must be a perspective, and that perspective, as Mr Segers said, must be provided not only by a number of Member States that are working on it, but also by the other Member States. It is particularly important to improve the process, to ensure that people know where they are in the asylum shelter. I hope that we will be able to take steps in the coming period. Finally, it is very good that the Foreign Minister has started work and at least called on the ambassadors of Russia and Iran, because the images we are seeing from Aleppo are really terrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u212	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers. The summit shows the state in which the Union is in. It is a pity that, even after everything that has happened, we are not able to formally freeze the negotiations with Turkey and that we therefore have to do something with small steps. This does not increase our credibility with regard to other violations of human rights. I'm just waiting to see which contacts there are official and political. I wonder if the first Vice-President of the Commission will say quickly whether we have subsidised prisons in Turkey where torture has taken place with EU money, including Dutch money. With regard to the Brexit, Mr Mulder was right to ask whether we could finally get something on the provision of information. That question has indeed been in the Lower House for more than a month. I had to start by saying that the annotated agenda was not good, then I was not allowed to quote from a memo and only late last night I received the documents on Turkey. All this makes the supervisory role of a parliamentarians a little more difficult. I like hard work and I want to do it at night, but a period of a few days to discuss exactly what is going on and to interpret the lyrics is sometimes very helpful. For example, we are not seeing any draft text on Ukraine here today. So we are all asking our questions with a considerable amount of fog, but we are finding out that there is going to be a unilateral declaration from the Union, which seems to want to impose on Ukraine something that does not seem to be able to be imposed. I'm just waiting to see how that's going to work out in practice, but it's very special how this is all going to work. First, Ukraine would be involved. I still have no idea how this is going to end up and what is the position of the Ukrainian Government on this issue. I would also have liked a substantive answer. Yes, you can indicate in a memo that you are not going to transfer billions on the basis of the treaty, but if you do retain the possibility to do so outside the treaty, that is obviously not entirely true. These were indeed four questions of mine on the four points which are interesting. Anyway, if we don't have the memo, we'll suspend these questions. I will request a debate for next week in the order of business. Whatever the outcome, it will certainly be worth the debate and at least all the pieces will be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u213	Mr Mulder does not need a second term. That brings us to the end of the second term from the Chamber. The Prime Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u214	Mr. Chairman. There were two further questions from the first deadline: firstly, the question of the Brexit negotiation process and how the national parliaments are involved. Let me just say here that I will work, also strengthened by this debate, in Brussels to ensure that national parliaments are informed as much as possible. Once again, this must be done at least at the same level as the European Parliament. I will also draw attention to this during Thursday evening's dinner. I would add that, of course, there are always limitations to this, because we, as 27 Member States, are negotiating with, in this case, a third party. The United Kingdom is a third party in this regard. In this sense, therefore, this is similar to the trade agreements, such as TTIP. I do not mean that it will necessarily be a trade agreement with the UK, but it looks like the type of negotiations as with TTIP. This means that we must keep in mind that we do not harm the interests of the negotiations by sharing information. This is a process without precedent; we have not had this before. Of course, the provision of information is also directly linked to the question of when the United Kingdom identifies and how. We cannot therefore yet say what subjects and what documents are involved, but I have heard it right. We're gonna try to do the best we can. That's what we were going to do, but even more now. It is important that Member States provide sufficient capacity for EASO and Frontex to deploy on islands. The Netherlands has been active since January 2016 with a board of security team and with asylum experts; this involves a few dozen people. Other large groups are supplied by Germany and the United Kingdom. That is why the démarche in the Presidency strio by the ambassadors of Slovakia, Malta and the Netherlands was made in each EU capital and in Bern and Oslo. Relocation is also very important. The Netherlands is now leading in absolute and relative terms: 834 relocations from Greece. Other major ones are France, Finland and Portugal, but also a few Baltic states, Slovenia and Romania. We emphasise this interest on every occasion. We do this in the European Council, Secretary of State Dijkhoff does so in the JHA Council and Minister Koenders in the General Affairs Council. Each time here goes: frappé toujours. I will take up the questions put by Mr Segers and Mr Bishop on the gas pedal in Brussels. How do we look at the future of this relationship? I do believe that we can do this best within the framework of the State of the Union. It's scheduled for February 9th, so that's big enough for Rome. The State of the Union is a piece of the cabinet and we will deal with these elements. I assume that I will be there myself and so will the Foreign Minister. We can continue the conversation then. Then I'll join the grabbelton. I'm sorry I didn't respond to that. No one else has asked and I like to do the loose subjects at the end. Not to neglect the importance, because the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and I really draw on this. There can be no doubt about that. I say to Mr Omtzigt that there is no draft text for tomorrow, because this is not a piece of the Council, but a negotiation between the Netherlands and other colleagues. I have already said that if draft texts are shared, capitals should react and Ukraine should react. That would damage the negotiation process. That is why we can only say at the end whether it has been achieved and then a text will come along, or if it has not been done, and then we say that it has not been done. We hope it works. We have never intended to make legally binding agreements with Ukraine. We want to involve the country in everything. It is important that it can finally live with what we are going to do. That is what we want to know about Ukraine. That has always been the case. The elements on which we make legally binding agreements are really on the European side. I now come to the motions that have been tabled. The motion in part No. 1174 by Mr Bontes on ending the billions of aid to Ukraine, I do not recommend. A report from the European Court of Auditors has just been published. The Court of Auditors is critical, but it also notes that there have been improvements. We continue to work for control and accountability. However, because of our security and economic interests, it is important that we support Ukraine in these developments. The second motion tabled by Mr Bontes, the motion tabled by Mr Bontes, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bontes, on This has been government policy since September 2015. This will also be discussed at the European Council tomorrow and on all other occasions. It is always part of the cabinet's contacts. I have already referred to the contacts with Tunisia. Bert Koenders and Klaas Dijkhoff also travel to North Africa. In all these contacts this is the issue, but always in an en-en policy. You can't say that dragging back boats is the solution. That's not my point of view either. Part of the en-en policy is that you take away the root causes of migration and that you support countries that are willing to play a greater role in it. You need to provide financial support where you can. You must ensure that asylum procedures in Europe are properly completed. You must ensure that the ships come not only from Europe, but also from Africa itself. They need to take their part, too. So you have to use such an and-and-and-policy to cover the entire spectrum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u215	That is all true, but in recent years no asylum boat has been dragged back to the coast of safe areas in Africa. So it's not a government policy at all. The motion calls for this to be discussed at the European summit. Make sure that other countries also think this is a good plan and that our navy is no longer used as a ferry service. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u216	Again, in an en-en-policy, that is all part of the policy. Things can take a long time, but they can also work. We have seen this with the agreements with Turkey. I believe that Mr Bontes is still opposed to this, but I am still very happy that we have them. As a result, the number of drownings has fallen dramatically, the flow of migration to Europe has fallen sharply and things are manageable again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u217	A brief comment, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u218	Again, no boat is being towed back. So what the Prime Minister is saying now is really for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u219	In that conclusion, Mr Bontes, I see points for further discussion in order to reach agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u220	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-8.u221	The motions tabled will be put to the vote in ten minutes.
