ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The pgb is so by now for personal ordeal. You will only have to use it and not be able to shape your life in any other way than with the pgb, and then be in uncertainty until 2020, because a few years ago, while all the signals were on red, this Secretary of State decided soloistically to introduce the drawing right. Also, municipalities mess with this wonderful instrument to conduct their own direction, with additional conditions and thresholds. I am asking for more action from the Secretary of State than simply conducting a little investigation under 10 out of 390 municipalities and then pretending that nothing is going on. Pgbs are in trouble and they can't. In the 2014 accounting survey, the General Court already talked about the non-legality of payments and about the fact that the lack of a structural solution is regarded as an imperfection. This is a serious conclusion for the Secretary of State a few years ago, although there is no working system to date. That's only there since 2020, we hear now. Because VWS may have to make another legislative change if the portal is to be managed by someone other than the SVB. But Van Rijn lets everything slip with the greatest ease. The introduction of the right of draw was intended to prevent fraud. Because of the total chaos that has arisen, that has not happened. A recent sample showed that 61% of the declarations are non-legal. Non-justice isn't fraud, but it does open a door. This is the government's fault, and whoever's responsible is in box K. The right of trekking has become a hugely powerful fraud magnet, not only throughout 2017, but allegedly even until 2020. Five long years of inadequate legality and constant misery with payout problems. Decent Dutch people are the victims. A trustworthy government can't do this. A secretary of state can't do this. Honest people are screwed. If the starting period for incomplete completion of the declarations expires on 1 November, no payment shall be made. But the government doesn't have a working system. Where have we seen this before? Oh, yes, in the Bulgarian fraud of former Secretary of State Weekers. Here too, there was a system that was tied together with rubber bands. But Weekers did honour himself, after 177.000 people had not received their much-needed supplements on time once. Van Rijn was a warned man. He therefore set up a steering committee and ignored the fact that he was informed about chain risks by that steering committee. His right to draw comes due to chain problems every month about 12,000 other caregivers in payment problems with their rent, mortgage and even paying their taxes to the government. It's the government's fault. They can even get a collection agency up their ass, by the government, while the government makes the mistakes. That will remain the case for the time being, and of course that cannot be done. This Secretary of State already received two motions of censure on his pants on the drawing right file. Afterwards he found himself super satisfied with a payout percentage of 95 within ten days. This is not only a banana republic standard, it was also just the right declarations. It now appears that 61% of the declarations are not lawful. How much does the drawing right debacle cut-and-paste cost? Another 160 million extra. For that money, we could have deployed additional fraud teams under the old system. Because did you know that on less than 1% of the files in the old system there was control? That's an oysterproof solution, but yes, from the PVV! The tension is high, but Van Rijn has all the support. He does not have to expect a motion of censure from the squeezing bitches' committee. No, they are already engaged in the elections, with the next cabinet, with being taken seriously, and with self-governing and becoming Secretary of State. And the people who depend on the system, well, they can wait until 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Whoever uses a pgb doesn't have it easy. Because the personal budget is there for people who need very intensive care. People who are dependent on other people to participate in society through illness or an accident in life. That is why I understand that these people are horribly upset by the uncertainty they have been in for a year and a half. I share their frustrations about the problem at the Social Insurance Bank and their anger at the inability of the government to find the right solutions. Frustration and anger that don't get any less when you read that there are still companies that take advantage of people with a pgb. I mention the scandalous example that RTL brought to light last week, of a care institution in Friesland that deliberately abuses vulnerable relatives. Really nauseating, I can't think of another word for it. What does the Secretary of State say to these people? Can he guarantee, for the short term, that there will be no large-scale failure in the maintenance of checks on 1 November, in order to prevent abuse and fraud, as was the case in January 2015? Can the Secretary of State state indicate what he's going to do if there's a limited threat of failure? What scenario is there for that? We had already agreed that the Secretary of State will present a plan to the Chamber before 1 November to regulate the future of the right of draw. So I'm assuming that's what's happening. And can the Secretary of State confirm that there really is a plan on which the Chamber can take a decision? I would also like to know when it is finally settled that in the event of abuse by healthcare providers, liability is also laid down with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr Potters wanted this debate this week, because something really had to be done. And now I hear he's waiting for the Secretary of State with a plan for November 1st. I must say, I find that disappointing. The VVD has put on a large pair of pants, but apparently has been sent back into the loft. But let me ask you one question with one condition. Does the VVD think it should be resolved by 2020? Or does she think it should be resolved in 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u5	In the motion that also supported the SP, we agreed that there would be a plan before 1 October. The Secretary of State indicated that that would be in October. I am concerned that the vulnerable people who now want a solution should be made clear for now and in the future. The House of Representatives should be able to take a decision on this this year. That was also the reason for me to request this debate. I therefore want this plan to be there before 1 November and we can make a decision so that all those people at home finally know what they are up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u6	It was Mr Potters who said that we should have a debate on this this week, because if the Secretary of State comes up with nothing, then the Chamber will do it. Big words, which I support, because this dossier has been a problem for far too long. And we're not getting anything from the Secretary of State. I'll say the same in my term. And what direction does the VVD want to go? Does it have to be resolved in four years? We know the Ministry and the chain director want this. We're not being informed by the Secretary of State, but we're getting information. Or does the VVD say: no, that is really not the issue; we are going to do everything we can to make it possible as of 1 January 2018, because for that we are having this debate today, so that it is settled as of 1 January 2018? I just asked that question, and I want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u7	I think that is an old question, because we have already said that we are moving towards a new transition situation as quickly as possible. We all believe that this new transition situation should be carefully shaped. I believe that the Secretary of State should answer the question as to whether this will happen in 2018. I haven't seen a plan yet. I just saw an article in today's AD. It seems very important to me that the Secretary of State should answer the question of what the follow-up period is. That is why we are holding this debate: I believe that we in the Chamber want to keep our finger on the pulse and we want to be able to adjust the Secretary of State's plans on content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u8	2020 or 2018? I want an answer to that. I asked you twice. The VVD wanted this debate and had big pants on. Now we also need butter for the fish: 2018 or 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u9	As soon as possible, as I indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u10	So 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u11	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u12	I regret, however, that Mr Potters does not clearly indicate here that we need to steer the road to 2018. Mrs Leijten certainly has a point, because in the spring Mr Potters called for us to have decided before the summer that we should not continue with the SVB. Then we had the debate before the summer. Then the VVD said: well, before October 1...; in October we make a decision. At the request of the VVD, we are having this debate this week. What's the VVD gonna do now? Why did this debate have to take place this week? What proposals does Mr Potters have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u13	I think what I asked the Secretary of State is clear: there must be a scenario before 1 November on which we can decide. We in the Chamber have said that we want to be able to take a decision this year, because all these people are waiting at home for clarity about what is happening in the short term and about their long-term prospects. We also said that we want a new situation as soon as possible. I think it is fine if this happens in 2018 or as much earlier as possible, but I think that the Secretary of State should clarify where we are going and where it is going. As far as I am concerned, this is happening as soon as possible, but care is also important. We have all attached great importance to this. So I say, as far as I am concerned, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u14	The conclusion that there should be a proposal before 1 November was already drawn in the previous pgb debate. Mr Potters said last week that this debate should be held this week. Then I assume that Mr Potters will come up with a new proposal. What new proposal does Mr Potters have, apart from saying that we should wait until 2020 for a new system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u15	Now I'm being put in my mouth. I'm not saying that at all. I've been the first to say that we need to get to a new situation quickly. We have also all said that care is very important. The point is that people have a solution for the short term, but also for the long term. There's speed, because everyone's been waiting a long time. There's also due diligence. On November 1st there must be a plan. That is why we are holding this debate. I would like the Secretary of State to give a clear undertaking that there will be a plan before 1 November on which we, as a Chamber, can take a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u16	I understand the confusion with my colleagues, quite frankly, because, of course, we are having this debate this week for a reason, but I have a question about what Mr Potters said. In November, we in the Chamber must be able to make a decision and there must be a scenario. What information should be available so that the Chamber can make a decision at all? I am also not referring to the fact that Mr Ton Elias is chairing the Elias Committee's recommendations today. Does Mr Potters agree with me that at least those recommendations of the Elias Committee should be respected?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u17	Yeah, absolutely. We in the Chamber have said to this Secretary of State: make sure that we can make a decision this year. So there's got to be a plan. We have passed a motion on October 1st. That eventually became "October." That plan must be in place by 1 November so that we can make a decision here. That is why we have requested this debate. I want that clear commitment from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u18	In any case, I am pleased that the recommendations of the Elias Committee are being respected, but Mr Potters has not yet answered my question. According to the VVD, what information should be present so that we as a Chamber can take a decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u19	The State Secretary would come up with an implementation scenario, a hybrid form in which all the benefits of the different chain partners would be combined. We are still waiting for that implementation scenario; I think the whole Chamber is waiting for that. That is the plan that must be in place before 1 November. If that is the case and if that is a full plan, we in the Chamber can make a decision this year. Then all the pgb-holders who are now waiting and who want to have clarity, know where they stand. I think it is important that we hold the debate for those people here. That is why we are standing here. I want that clarity as soon as possible, and I believe that the Chamber wants that clarity as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u20	Before 1 January 2015, there were never any problems with paying. Those who did it then, the health offices, have now come up with something together with Per Recht to work towards a situation in which the misery of the past year and a half disappears. What are we hearing? Or rather, what are we reading? We do not get that information from the Secretary of State, but we read it in the daily newspaper. We read that from the ministry of VWS everything is done to keep the SVB in view. That's for two reasons. The first is that the law should be amended. Well, that's what we're talking about here. The other reason is that there should be a tender. How does the VVD feel about that? I am distracted by what Mrs Leijten is now calling in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u21	It only makes sense to say something here if we use the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u22	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u23	So if you want to say something, you have to use the microphone. Your question to Mr Potters was clear. I call Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u24	I would like to add something, Mr President. Because the VVD is bringing us all here today. The plan that lies ahead can be implemented much earlier, with all due care, as Mr Bergkamp rightly pointed out. But what does the VVD really want, apart from standing here today and speaking nice words?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u25	We want the pgb-holders, the people who have been waiting for clarity for a year and a half, to have a solution for the short term, and we do not want a large-scale outage to come as in 2015. No one wants that. We want a guarantee that that won't happen. That guarantee must be given to the Secretary of State. In addition, the Secretary of State must state clearly: there is an implementation plan before 1 November which you as Chambers can decide on. I want the Secretary of State's undertaking today that that is really there. I, too, have seen the articles in the newspaper today, but I have not yet seen a concrete plan. So all the questions that Mrs Keijzer has about that, I would also like to ask the Secretary of State. After all, I can't respond to a plan I haven't seen. I believe that there should be an implementation scenario that is feasible and careful, and with which the pgb holders can get out of the way. I hope that the Secretary of State will also clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr Potters is throwing everything into a pile, but I think today is really about whether we are married to the SVB or not. Apparently, the Ministry of VWS does, because everything is invented to keep the SVB in view. I have heard before from Mr Potters that that is not...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u27	"SVB" stands for the Social Insurance Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u28	The Social Insurance Bank, thank you, Chairman. But everyone who's involved in this, unfortunately, knows what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u29	But we also have a public gallery and there are people following this debate at home. So please use as few abbreviations as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u30	I think that we in this Chamber are always saying 'I am talking about my own words', Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u31	That's why I'm helping you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u32	So I would very much like to hear from the VVD what she thinks about the fact that the VWS Ministry is apparently married to the SVB, the Social Insurance Bank, chairman of the board, and every time comes up with arguments that can be wiped off the table to my liking? And why would I want to do that? Because, with all due care, we have to move to another system as quickly as possible and we do not need to drag on all kinds of things that I do not think need to be discussed at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u33	I hear a lot of assumptions and thoughts from Mrs Keijzer. It's very difficult to respond to that. I think that, in view of the publication that is available, the Secretary of State should clarify where we stand with the implementation scenario and which direction we are going. But the most important thing is that we will have that before 1 November. I simply want the pgb-holders today to be clear about the follow-up process so that they can have the certainty, both in the short and in the long term, of what I believe they are really entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u34	I'm going to continue on this same point. This morning I read in the Algemeen Dagblad that I'm putting it down as sharply as I am. Per Balance doesn't cooperate with the Ministry anymore, but is looking for help from health insurers and municipalities to work together on a variant that really puts the budget holder at the centre. Now I hear Mr Potters of the VVD say: the budget holder must be at the centre. What does the VVD think of such a cry from Per Balance, that Per Balance says that the Ministry no longer stands up for the interests of the budget holders and seeks its salvation from other parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u35	I find Mrs Dik's thinking on this morning's report difficult. I read it, too. That also raises questions for me. I can't respond to it yet because I haven't seen any plans at all. I would have liked to talk about a plan today. That's not there yet. That is why this debate is taking place. Before November 1st, that plan has to be there. All these questions arise, both from the budget holders as well as from Per Balance and all other stakeholders. It is good that we are clear about this. This message is from this morning. I haven't had a chance to respond to that. I think the Secretary of State can shed some light on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u36	However, this debate had to be scheduled as a matter of urgency, because we had to talk about a plan that would clarify budget holders. There's no clarity. The only uncertain clarity we get is from the paper. This must be a thorn in the eye, too, right? This is something the VVD must also say: it cannot, I want clarity today, there must be a plan, this is really not enough for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u37	I am also disappointed in the process that has gone on so far. I will come back to that later in my contribution. However, I believe that the Secretary of State is now in the process, as requested by the Chamber before the summer, of coming up with that plan and with that clarity. It's not October 1st, but the plan isn't there yet. On 1 November, the plan must be there and then we must be able to make a decision as a Chamber. I expect the Secretary of State to give me a full yes to my question as to whether that plan is in place on 1 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u38	Mr Potters continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u39	On the one hand, there are people who say that abuse of vulnerable budget holders can only be stopped by abolishing the pgb: everyone gets care in kind and further figure out how to organise it tailor-made. On the other hand, there are people who say that we should not complain about fraud in The Hague: just pay and hope for the best. These extremes do not appeal to me as a VVD. The fact is that pgb can be a fantastic tool for those who want to be able to choose for themselves what their life looks like, even if due to an accident or illness he is dependent on very heavy care. The fact is that by far most people with a pgb and caregivers are in good faith. Most people see that this instrument, which gives so much freedom, can only survive if we can tackle people who abuse clients and care money. It is also the fact that in the last year and a half the government has not succeeded in making the introduction of the widely supported right of draw a success. The Ministry and the Social Insurance Bank have failed to create a system that is "understandable, accessible and workable," as the three building blocks of the new drawing right have been formulated. That last fact is sad. If you're dependent on others to make something of your life, it's no good to have a government that doesn't have the base in order. I am therefore disappointed that there is still no solution today for people who have been in uncertainty for a year and a half. I am equally disappointed that the commitment to really tackle the fraudsters who abuse these people is being postponed once again because we cannot maintain it on the basis of controls. That is why I asked this question. After all, it is the people who have been waiting for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u40	The question is then a bit what we are having this debate for. I recall that this debate was originally requested on the reporting of the sample at the end of August. I do not hear Mr Potters say anything about this in his speech. Can he still reflect on that? I think that is important in the context of the debate we are having.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u41	That has indeed been one of the reasons for asking for this debate, as has the fraud committed by Woonfoyers, an example that we all know. That has, of course, increased the unrest, with pgb-holders and with us as Chambers. Are we going to have a system that works and will we be able to clarify it in the short term? A lot of declarations haven't been paid out in the system. Why is that? Are we in control when it comes to the process? For this reason, I have said that I believe that the Secretary of State should clarify this matter to the Chamber. The uncertainty is still very great. That is why we are holding this debate and we need to be clear today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u42	I think we are confusing two things: we are waiting for clarity on a new implementation scenario, as Mr Potters calls it, but we are also dealing with the current implementation practice. We see in the sample that a worrying number of declarations do not meet this requirement. That was the reason for you to request this debate. So what do you want from the Secretary of State about the current implementation practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u43	I believe that we will have to deal with large-scale outages as of 1 November 2016, but we must avoid this at all costs. That is one of the questions I have asked the Secretary of State, which I believe should be clearly 'no' in the sense of: no, that is not going to happen to the extent that it happened as of 1 January 2015. We see in the first sample that there is a very large outage. We all want to set up checks and tackle fraud. Both interests are great. My question is whether the same thing will happen as from 1 January 2015. That cannot be the case. I don't think you want me to. I think it is very important for the Secretary of State to clarify this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u44	I think that these are the questions we can talk about today and not the ones we are all waiting for, namely that which will come in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u45	I don't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u46	Mr. Chairman. There will be a new system, but apart from the fact that we know at the request of D66 and Per Balance that the budget holders will determine the functional requirements, we still know very little about the so-called new portal, the new system. Yesterday, we received two letters from Per Recht, two letters in one day, and this morning I read in a tweet from the Algemeen Dagblad that Zorgverzekeren Nederland wants to build the portal. I'll ask the Secretary of State exactly what's going on. Is there a panic? Is there pressure on the kettle? Looking at the last time, I, like Mr Keijzer, plead for care. I also said in the interrupting debate that I think it is important that the recommendations of the Elias Committee be followed. For example, she said that politics should pay more attention to the lead times of an ICT project. I'd like an update from the Secretary of State. What's the latest? Where does healthcare insurers come from the Netherlands and why? Did the Secretary of State for Health insurers ask the Netherlands, or did this happen via Per Recht? I'd like to hear how this happened. And I want an explanation: why do we need to hear this kind of thing indirectly instead of hearing it directly from the Secretary of State? Another question in the context of expectations management is exactly what we will get in November. The VVD talks about an implementation scenario. Among other things, in order to reduce expectations, I would like to know very specifically what information we will receive in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u47	D66 considers care very important. Yesterday, in my documents, I found a quote from the Secretary of State for 2013. He said that the introduction of the right of draw for 125,000 budget holders is a major development and that this must be done carefully. We all know that 60% of declarations are not lawful and that if there is to be a legislative change, there will be no system for 2020. Then do you insist that care is still possible on this file?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u48	I think we should learn from the current drawing rights system. Of course, that went completely wrong. We have had several debates on this subject. In my contribution, I also point out that we need to learn from this and that in the new system we need to put the emphasis on care: to examine what we now know, including from the Elias Commission. There should be an opinion from the BIT (ICT Review Office). D66 attaches great importance to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u49	Picking leather? There are people who get into trouble every month paying their rent, paying their mortgage. The government makes sure they get a collection agency on their necks. It's the government's fault. And then the D66 Group talks about learning lessons? When is the D66 fraction gonna show her teeth? She can go to dinner with the SP to see if she can rule, but isn't it high time to oppose this Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u50	I have the impression that Mrs Leijten wants to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u51	People's dinners are irrelevant in this debate. I fully support Mrs Agema when she says that it must be faster and also in this interruption, but she should not bring that up, because that has not helped the budget holders at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u52	Well, I find it very special that we have a situation that is many times worse than the Weekers situation and where there are still people in payment problems every month, but D66 doesn't take the bait! Hopefully, the SP does, but hardly anyone does that around here anymore. And then I wonder why. Why is the Secretary of State, who insists on waiting until 2020, not being sent home? And then D66 says nothing more than "telling"! What is that thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u53	Let me satisfy Mrs Agema. I also wanted to pay attention to this in my contribution. You have the new system that needs to be built. I really think that this should be done carefully. We shouldn't, like last time, get a system that hasn't been tested. There is absolutely no use for the budget holders. I also fully agree with Mrs Agema that we need to improve the current system. I would also like to devote a great deal of my input to this. So I do have an eye for the care. The value of today's debate should be to improve the current system, because many budget holders still have to work with a very user-friendly system. I really do. I therefore hope that Mrs Agema will be patient so that I can tell the rest of my contribution. Hopefully I'll reassure her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u54	Yeah, yeah... No, actually not, because D66 accepts the status quo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u55	No, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u56	I hear that improvements need to be made and we need to learn lessons. But D66 leaves the Secretary of State who has pressed this through alone, independently and without informing us. When will it be enough for the D66 Group? Because we now hear that if the SVB is not in the lead, there will be another legislative change, which will last another year and a half. Then we will have a period of five years in which every month there will be people with rental problems, who will be sent to their necks by the government collection agencies. So when does D66 say that the Secretary of State who caused this must leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u57	The PVV still lives in the past. We have had several debates on this subject. I'd really like to look into the future now. How can the problems for budget holders be resolved in the short term and how can we get a new, careful system? I think that the budget holders are much more well served by this than by what the PVV is now proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u58	I would like to continue with this so-called care. We can see that it was not applied when the right of draw was introduced and that, more than a year and a half later, we do not yet have an alternative. What does the D66 Group think about that? Carefulness is actually being misused to put an alternative and a short-term perspective on the long run. What does Mrs Bergkamp think of the Secretary of State doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u59	I think Mrs Leijten certainly has a point there. I have also just indicated that I find it very annoying to read in the newspaper and in letters from Per Recht what is happening behind the scenes. That is also my question to the Secretary of State: where is he in all this? I must say, however, that the Secretary of State indicated that there would be a plan in October, but that we are already discussing it today at the request of the VVD. In terms of regularity, something is wrong, because of one of the coalition parties, but I think that the Secretary of State should clarify today. What happens now and what information will we receive in November? Be careful not to abuse, but looking at where we are now, you can see that the whole process of course has not gone very carefully. I want a system that the budget holders are happy with. We have also come up with a proposal together with Per Recht in which they formulate the requirements together. I also want a system that is sufficiently tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u60	Carefulness is incredibly abused. We could have said before the summer: build that portal and make sure that's right. We didn't, because the VVD had to go back into the loft. Even today we can say that, but the VVD is not going to do that, because she's back in the loft. So we get a debate on 1 November, when the deadlines have passed to do it carefully with a BIT advice and a good tender, and the budget holders are sitting with the SVB's wood-rope system until 2020. How does D66 look back on that? It is partly responsible for this because it does not force the Secretary of State to come up with an alternative soon. We're gonna have an SVB system with no perspective until 2020. How does D66 look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u61	Carefulness is important, but that also applies of course to speed. It's gotta be possible. I think, frankly, the SP should focus its anger more on the coalition and the Secretary of State. After all, in the debates we have had on this subject, I have always said that it is important to find a quick solution, including to the current problems of the budget holders in the system. At the end of August, it was front page news: half of the pgb declarations were wrong. Is it true that the SVB gave that message to the journalists independently? How'd that go? Is it true that a very large group is now also classified as "no good" because the system itself is inadequate? I get signals from people who have already been called four times by the SVB about the same fact, but are given a different interpretation and solution. On 1 November, the so-called "button" will be turned on and fraud will be tested. That is, of course, fine, but I do not think that it is necessary for people who make an administrative mistake to be harmed. They must continue to be able to pay for their care and caregivers. I would like to clarify what is going to happen in that process, particularly towards November. Last week, Claudia Kruidbos showed the letter she wrote to the care office for the renewed application of the pgb for her multi-disabled son. She had to deliver 65 A4s. She filled out his name fifteen times, ten times his SVB customer number and twenty times his account number. In addition, she had to fill out her own bsn 21 times. She's not the only one. Per Balance, 1,200 similar reports were received. That's embarrassing and actually crying. What rules is the Secretary of State going to delete? And how do we adapt this system so that it remembers when someone needs care? Why should someone who wants more care, who has to apply every year? When will the standard models for an application become the standard? This debate would be beneficial if the Secretary of State promised the D66 Group that there would be a short-term improvement plan for the current system, with a priority list aligned with the users, understanding how the current system is being adapted, what rules will disappear and how we can deal with the terrible administrative bureaucracy. I would like to mention a few small issues, which, however, have a great impact. Budget holders who first fell under the Wmo due to a mistake and now again under the Wlz, are heavily affected. They are now subject to a lower informal rate. We believe that this is unfair and we would like a response to that. Some health insurance companies have lead times of about eight months. Is that really true? And is it like that everywhere? We would like an overview of the lead times per insurer. Especially now that Zorgverzekerings Nederland is interested in contributing to the drawing rights system, I am very curious how they actually deal with the pgb in practice. What is the status of the new renewal agenda for the pgb? And what is the status of the General Measure of Governance with the determination? There would be an administrative consultation, again with the health insurance companies. I assume that will go smoothly, but I would also like to receive an update.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr. Chairman. "Then there is a care plan that you require me to describe exactly (but I would like to be within the lines) why someone comes and what they do, and on option 2 what happens if my son doesn't get this help. I can briefly summarize the latter, which is he's dying! Unfortunately that is not allowed and I have to write down five times, in detail, what serious limitations my son has, what defects, disabilities, his abnormalities and the diagnoses." This quote is in a letter recently received by the Chamber about applying for a pgb. It could have belonged to any father or mother. Asking quantities must be filled in and papers must be copied and sent. The Secretary of State then sent a letter with warm words and wrote that he was going to solve it for this mother. But the CDA wants the system modified. The Secretary of State writes to the Chamber that everyone agrees to initiate the checks on 1 November. That's good for the Secretary of State, but I'm looking at that differently. What checks are being set up? In his letter, the chain director goes into that. In response to the mother's letter, I would have liked to have heard in concrete terms what controls will be abolished. I do not find the letter of 23 September from the Secretary of State very inspiring. That is not enough if you read the analysis of the chain director about the amount of controls that lead to failure in the system and therefore not paying. Let's face it, these controls aren't gonna save the care. On the contrary, in my opinion, they destroy the concern. They frustrate people unnecessarily. What is the Secretary of State going to do to make the system better? Is he going to check the front qualitatively who wants a pgb? Is he going to make sure that shady desks are cut off so that we can prevent real fraud? What rules is he actually going to delete to make sure that people can do what they have ever worked for, namely to provide care? The unnecessarily frustrating of parents and families of caring people must really be put to an end. I come to the investigation of the extrajudicial grounds for refusal by municipalities and health offices, following the Dik-Faber motion. An investigation into ten municipalities, eight of which do not know what is going on, is in no way representative. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Then the future. In the last few days, Per Recht bought us almost a live blog of the conversations with VWS. The progress of this is disappointing! There is a proposal that is now supported by the healthcare offices, in the capacity of health insurance companies Netherlands. How bad does the misery behind the scenes still have to be at the SVB? But no, VWS thinks of two reasons why the solution sought there cannot be. The law must be amended and tendered. Well, the law can be changed. It is no problem for me to soon organise an amendment to some VWS law. Does the Secretary of State want to go along with that? Then there is the obligation to tender: a healthcare office is not a contracting authority, so it does not have to tender. Should VWS be contracting? No, there are a lot of subsidy relationships where that doesn't happen either. I would like the Secretary of State not only to say that he is not married to the SVB, but that he also acts accordingly. Finally. Can the CDA assume that the new payment system is open source in accordance with the motion already adopted in 2002 by the Member of Parliament, Mr Vendrik............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Or does the government remain dependent on tax-enriching ICT companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u63	The arguments of VWS why the plan of Zorgverzekerings Nederland could not convince me directly. However, we are not always happy with the combination of pgb and health insurance companies. So I do wonder whether the health insurance companies are by definition the right party to take on this task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u64	In Mrs Voortman's words, I am listening to a reference to the way in which health insurers are currently dealing with the refusal of personal budgets. I totally agree with her. That is incomprehensible to me too. That is why the CDA raised this issue several times when this discussion took place. I believe that we have worked hard together with the SGP Group to undo these grounds of refusal as much as possible. However, that is different from the question of whether in this case care offices are going to be able to play a good role here. I would remind you of the period before 2015. Have we ever heard of payment problems with personal budgets? No, never or rarely. And who paid those pgbs for January 1, 2015? Those were the municipalities and health offices, and occasionally, in some complex cases, the Social Insurance Bank did. One thing's for sure: now it's a big gang. The Social Insurance Bank plays a decisive role in this. It seems covered by the Secretary of State and I want to move towards a better future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u65	We all want that better future. I agree with Mrs Keijzer that it is a gang and that the Social Insurance Bank is not doing well in this way. I can imagine that the confidence in that respect is gone. But whether this means that we have to expect the walhalla immediately from the health insurance companies, I have not yet figured that out. The point is that health insurers remain private parties. I would not like to be too critiqued or say something too easy: we let the health insurers do it. A little more restraint might also be wise in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u66	Mrs Voortman speaks against a CDA and whether words like 'walhalla' are appropriate is, of course, the question; at least we call that different. I am not saying here that health insurance companies in the Netherlands should do that either. I don't have enough expertise to do that. However, I say that the search for arguments to keep the SVB in this system is up to me. I can almost get angry about it, but when I hear it, I put anger next to me, I look at the arguments and I think: wanted. We can do this differently, and we have to do this differently. I want a specific answer from the Secretary of State today to my two specific questions, because this has to be different and this can be different!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u67	Mr. Chairman. We are already talking again about the still urgent problems with the personal budget. A recent sample of the Social Insurance Bank shows that about 60% of the claims are rejected, mostly because of the lack of the name and address of the health care provider or a signature. That, to say the least, is not an optimistic picture. I'd like to get into that later. The reason for this debate is the reluctance with which municipalities indicate personal budgets. That's why I'm starting it. It has recently been found that this restraint has put mental health initiatives in the danger zone in particular. That while housing initiatives fit in very well with the vision of the Social Support Act. I have been to work regularly in such a small-scale housing initiative where young people with disabilities can live independently. Parents have often put a lot of effort into getting them to live there that way. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, such small-scale initiatives are worthy of gold, but if you keep getting a short-term contract, it is very difficult to keep such an initiative in the air. The Long-Term Care Act contains clear guidelines for the housing initiative bonus, but these are lacking in the current Social Support Act. As a result, there is very little certainty among budget holders while it is necessary for, for example, filling empty spaces and buying care. I therefore think it is important that these small-scale housing initiatives do not run into these bottlenecks. Does the Secretary of State share this observation? What will he do in concrete terms to help these housing initiatives? The House of Representatives has repeatedly stated that it is important that small-scale housing initiatives remain possible in future in the pgb. Then there is the question of the Social Insurance Bank and the right to draw. My group has serious doubts about the lack of bureaucracy which has been going on for a long time and which is caused by the drawing rights problem. The Ketenregie consultation advises to extend the habit by one month, which means that the Social Insurance Bank will carry out strict checks in November. It is a pity that it has to be extended by one month, but that is really necessary because a lot is going wrong. The question is whether everything will be okay from November onwards. Does the Secretary of State have any confidence that the biggest problems will be solved from November onwards? What possible obstacles will he see, and how will he ensure that pgb holders will be able to declare without any problems from November? There will be weekly reports, but what consequences will the Secretary of State have if things are not done as they please? What objectives does he set? My group continues to strongly support the budget holder variant for a new pgb portal, in which budget holders get their own direction back. For budget holders, that own direction is crucial. They should be able to reuse data so that they do not have to fill in the same 65 times. They must be able to see immediately whether a declaration is correct or not. This prevents much frustration and unnecessary bureaucracy. Per Balance has had no less than 1,200 reports about this unnecessary bureaucracy. Budget holders who need more care now face unnecessary problems. Only when staying with care in kind under the Long-Term Care Act has the problem been solved by the bridge period of thirteen weeks. Can the Secretary of State implement such a thirteen-week bridging period with each change to another domain? Is he also willing to make a standard form for declarations to the Social Insurance Bank mandatory? I'm rounding up. For our group, it remains to be seen that a budget-holders' portal must be implemented quickly, as from 1 January 2018. 2020 is absolutely not possible. What path does the Secretary of State see for himself to realize this? Can the Court take a decision on this as soon as possible so that implementation can be started?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u68	Mr. Chairman. This envelope contains 65 papers, all of this to ensure that the care for my multi-disabled son, who already has a pgb since 2000, is now reimbursed from the Wlz for sixteen years. On these A4s I had to fill in a total of 15 times his name, 15 times the complete address details, 15 times his BSN and 10 times his SVB customer number, his date of birth 15 times, the phone number on which he reached is 15 times, his account number 20 times, my signature about 18 times, my BSN as representative 21 times, my date of birth 5 times and of course the complete address details 15 times, and what else I have forgotten. That's how a letter from a mother that we all got started. This isn't supposed to happen, is it? No one wants this and yet it happens. The Christian Union stands for freedom of choice for those who want to organise their own care. That is why we consider the personal budget so important, but what this mother describes is very far from her own direction and freedom. As she herself writes, "I feel like I'm a criminal who has to justify exactly what I'm doing and why I think I should do this." When is the end of this piece of paper? We have discussed the implementation of the right of draw incredibly often. Despite considerable efforts at the Social Insurance Bank, too much is still missing. Thousands of declarations contain errors. That's not so strange either, seeing what all needs to be filled out. Fortunately, it is often about small mistakes, but fraud cannot be ruled out. The coulance period is now being extended for another month, but with this the locks for fraud are still wide open. This puts pressure on the solidarity and credibility of the pgb. The mother I just quoted is the victim of that. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that enforcement will indeed take place from 1 November? How does he prevent queues? Honestly, I get a little nervous about the scenario that the SVB contacts in writing and by telephone when things are not okay. Is that gonna be okay? At the same time, I realise that there are no simple solutions and we are not going to get there with tough language either. It is now important to work vigorously towards a solution in which the budget holder is once again at the heart of the matter and is given the direction. I come to the portal, on which a motion was adopted for the summer by colleagues Volp and Voortman, and my person. It is good that there is now a programme of demands for this. Will the Secretary of State make every effort to get the portal started by 2018? Of course care is paramount, but waiting another three years is not really an option. Where is the portal being hung? In view of history, the SVB is under discussion, but a long procurement process is also not a good prospect. Is tender really necessary? What criteria does the Secretary of State apply? When is a decision taken? And why should we read in the newspaper that health insurers and municipalities are working on their own variant? The investigation into my motion on municipal pgbs isn't exactly reassuring. Only ten municipalities have been investigated. Municipalities cannot provide an insight into the number of refusals and their reasons. The client perspective is completely missing. However, it becomes clear that municipalities prefer to provide general services and care in kind. The Secretary of State also writes that certain findings give rise to discussions with three of the ten municipalities under investigation on the policy. What's behind this? It is good that there will be a support programme, in consultation with the VNG and Per Balance, but what do the care farms and small-scale housing initiatives have to do with this? They threaten to go under because of all the municipal problems with the pgb. I'd like a response. Finally. I have been in contact with people for some time who have been fighting a legal battle with the healthcare office about receiving a pgb for their son's care for years or not. Due to the fact that documents have not been sent to the good office, the health office disputes the level of the paid pgb. The judge has agreed to these people for two thirds of the amount. The remaining amount can still be legally challenged, but these people aren't getting into it anymore. They're out and their relationship has come under so much pressure that they've had to decide on a divorce. This situation is not on its own. I've raised it before with the Secretary of State. People who have a conflict with their healthcare office, a private organization, have nowhere else to go but the judge. Does the Secretary of State still want to work today to organise mediation and dispute resolution, as the SKGZ does?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u69	I see that Mrs Agema still has an interruption, so Mrs Dik is going back to the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u70	I also think the contribution of the Christian Union is weak. I wonder what Mrs Dik actually wants from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u71	Mr. Chairman. I can repeat my entire contribution here, but you will not be able to accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u72	No, that certainly can't count on my approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u73	I have put a number of specific questions to the Secretary of State, just to start with my last heart cry, to organise dispute resolution for conflicts with the healthcare office. I hope for the support of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u74	Why a dispute resolution? We have a situation that is simply impossible in our country. Every month 12,000 other people come into payment problems. Yesterday we received a letter about the e-mail from a health care provider who receives a collection agency for €996,33, while he receives €40,000 from the Social Insurance Bank, which means that he has already had to pay fines to the Tax Administration and to energy suppliers. Dispute settlement! Why is the Secretary of State allowed to remain in the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u75	I have asked several questions to the Secretary of State, all of which have to do with the difficulties in implementing the right to draw. I think it is very important for the Secretary of State to take action. This is indeed yet another debate and I share the frustration of the PVV that it is not yet in order. That frustration is not only with me and the PVV, but I think it is with the entire Chamber. Let us work together to ensure that a solution is found and that the last problems are resolved. Fortunately a large group is doing well, but too often things are not going well. To be honest, I find it too easy for the PVV to step forward now and say that it was a weak input, because the whole Chamber is taking the lead to put the budget holders back on the centre and make sure that it gets back in place for the budget holders, that the financial problems come to an end and that everyone gets the direction of the pgb, the caregivers get paid and finally people get the care they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u76	Mrs. Agema, last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u77	The whole room barks, but it doesn't bite. The entire Chamber leaves the Secretary of State; the Secretary of State who has been soloist, who has not informed us and who has already had two motions of censure. We now see that the problems are getting bigger and bigger and bigger and that it is not about the last things that still have to be resolved. 61% of the declarations are not lawful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u78	What is your question to Mrs Dik?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u79	That's a hell of a lot. Then why does the Christian Union stay with such a lame story? Why isn't she harder? Why doesn't she think the Secretary of State should make room for someone else?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u80	The PVV actually concludes that you have a weak story if you do not support a motion of censure. I disagree. I have called on the Secretary of State many times already, and I can see that he is doing it, but it may be firmer, certainly to keep not ten fingers on the wrist, but to bang the fist on the table. That's what this Secretary of State has to do. Don't resign, just perform. To that end, I challenge him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u81	I'm gonna change the subject. Mrs Dik made a motion a while ago to investigate grounds for refusal of personal budgets. Everything we keep reading shows that it is often wrong to refuse to provide a pgb. Now there is an investigation at 10 out of 390 municipalities. Eight municipalities don't keep records at all when they refuse a pgb. I'm just looking for firm words. Does Mrs. Fat think this is a bullshit investigation with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u82	I'd be happy to pick up that part of my contribution, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u83	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u84	Let me summarize it briefly. I think it's ridiculous what's lying there. It's totally inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u85	Fine. What are we gonna do about it together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u86	Let the CDA and the Christian Union table a motion together to ask the Secretary of State to broaden this investigation and to implement the support programme that the Secretary of State is about to launch. I have seen that the number of budget holders within the Wmo and the Youth Act has decreased by 30,000 in a year and a half. Those are all pgbs that have been denied. That's just too much. This cannot be explained by the reasons which emerged from the study in the ten municipalities. So more needs to be done. Let us put together a motion. I put in some ingredients for that. I think the CDA has some ideas about that, too. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u87	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u88	Mrs. Agema, one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u89	Yes, Mr. Chairman, on a small new point. I've got that motion. I have also requested the debate on this subject. So I hope we can table a motion together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u90	I see that more and more people are supporting the same point. So let's see where we can get together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of heated debates in this house on issues where real political choices are at stake. Do you or do you not want to allow weed cultivation? Do you want or don't you want to have your own risk in care? Do you want to receive refugees here or not or invest in the region? Those are real political choices. The uncomfortableness of the many debates on the pgb lies in the following for me. I have the feeling that there is actually a great deal of consensus about what we want with each other. We all want budget holders to have their personal budgets paid out smoothly and not to end up in a maze. At the same time, on the one hand, we want abuse to be recognised and fought against. On the other hand, errors in declarations made by people who are in good faith must be quickly identified and corrected. If that could be true, if all this were to go smoothly, we would not have to have these many debates. As long as that is the case, we will indeed end up in a technocracy. What should or should not be on the chain director's work agenda? What should the standard contract model look like? Then I think, is that the way we get on with each other? I'd rather hear when the problems are really solved. Exactly how that happens, often lies with the board and management. We should not spend so much of our emotions and motions on that. The fact that it keeps coming back is, of course, because the problems have still not been solved. Sure, there's a lot going well, but we all get frustrated and cranky when we get another e-mail from people who write "you know how many times I've sent in a form again?'. I received an email from a father who had been arranging a pgb for his daughter for months and sent a photo with the two-week holiday harvest: eleven letters from the SVB and four from VGZ. Still the pgb wasn't taken care of. Another e-mail came from a mother of a boy with learning difficulties. She had already started a Wlz application in February. She had sent a lot of letters, which then lost again. It wasn't settled at the beginning of the month. She was wondering if you should have studied at the university to get a pgb done. Again, we do not see and hear what is going well. We have to say that honestly, but there is still too much going wrong. This always raises the question of when things will be smoother. When are people not gonna end up in that maze? That is the first important point, but the second important point...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u92	You're already holding back! I assume that Mrs Leijten wishes to interrupt on that first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u93	Only in the longer term, in 2020, will a solution be available for the SVB's wood rope system. Does Mr Van der Staaij agree with the SP that this form crazy really needs to be resolved in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u94	Yeah, I agree with the SP. Not only should we put all the cards on the future system, but we should also address as much as possible the problems that now arise in implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u95	Then how does the SGP assess the response of the Secretary of State, whom we received last night, to the letter from the lady who had to send 65 pages to get a pgb for her son? In it he writes that in the future there is a possibility to solve this. Does the SGP think that this is not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u96	If it were only to say that everything would improve in the future and that the problems would continue for the time being, I find that unsatisfactory. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u97	That was his reaction!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u98	Because of other accents, sentences and intermediations, something verbal sometimes comes through differently. Sometimes you read about something, while it turns out to be the essence of the letter. I therefore always like to hear an oral explanation. Sometimes you get even better at what the essence of a letter is. Mr. Chairman. On my second point, Mrs Agema has just asked for attention, as has the Christian Union and the CDA. That point is that a pgb sometimes seems to be deliberately discouraged by exceptionally strict requirements and controls. Sometimes this happens unconsciously, but the effect is the same because you actually get the signal from the insurer or the municipality that you shouldn't get started on it. The research that is available is insufficient. I do not do my best to outdo qualifications such as bullshit research and what else has been mentioned, because I have to acknowledge my superiors in many of my colleagues. It must be improved and it must also be made clearer what is wrong and how it is handled. I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. The last point I would like to mention concerns the budget holder portal. In short, everything has to be done to ensure that there is a well-functioning budget holder portal on 1 January 2018. I therefore feel at home with my colleagues who also mentioned this. How can the Secretary of State ensure that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u99	Mr. Chairman. If you read in the newspaper just before the start of the political season that a sample of legality checks shows that half of the person-related budget declarations are incorrect, the courage is falling. Now what? What's going to go wrong? More importantly, you are deeply concerned about the possible consequences of this finding for budget holders when the legality checks do have consequences. A large part of the declarations that were not made by the audit proved incorrect or insufficient. You can't talk about fraud. In the letter from the chain director we read that improvements have also been made. That is necessary, because if you do not properly fill out declarations because the system is so complicated that you can hardly do it properly, then we miss the point. With a personalised budget, people can organise the care they need as appropriately as possible, so that they can live a life that they themselves have control over. That was also the original purpose of the drawing right. It should be a payout system which, apart from being simple and customer-friendly, was also easily verifiable for fraud. In order to achieve this, the first two must not be put at risk and, unfortunately, after the introduction of the current trekking system, this has proved painful. Let me say first of all that my party believes that this longer start-up period is justified. The chain director clearly explains in his letter why this delay was chosen and what is now being done to do it by agreement from 1 November. Delay and no delay! But my party does have a number of questions. What is the State Secretary's expectation of the fall-out after 1 November? What is the experience during this period of the employees of the Social Insurance Bank who call? Do they expect the deficiencies found to be soluble before 1 October? How, and in particular at what rate, will after 1 November look at outages that are really out of fault? Is sufficient capacity available from the SVB? Colleagues also mentioned the message that we read in the AD this morning. I hear different interpretations of that. That makes it so unsatisfactory that we have to wait until October to hear what the future of the new pgb will eventually look like. I would nevertheless like a response from the Secretary of State to what we were allowed to read in the newspaper this morning. Yesterday's letter and mail from Per Recht are a little hopeful to me, but that is also much-needed hope that the chain partners, led by the chain director, are now really taking steps in the development of a new, simpler, customer-friendly and fraud-proof portal system. In October, in accordance with the motion tabled by Mr Potters and my predecessor, can we also expect the Secretary of State to provide us with the information needed to make a clear decision as a Chamber on the future of the pgb, which should be implemented as soon as possible? I have another question about the multi-care procedure. Several colleagues quoted from the letter and talked about the case about which the NOS also reported. The transition between domains is not smooth. The case mentioned is not in itself, because Per Balance has received more than 1,000 signals. Healthcare insurers The Netherlands also recognizes this. Like the whole Chamber, I do not want budget holders to be unnecessarily burdened with unnecessary bureaucracy. The transition between domains must be made more flexible. Can the Secretary of State, in cooperation with Zorgverzekerings Nederland and Per Balance, investigate how this can be done better, actually achieve this and inform us about it for the 2017 budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u100	In the letter of 23 September, the Secretary of State asks why the checks are not working and why so many declarations are being thrown out of the system. The Secretary of State writes that he follows the advice of the chain partners and that these two controls are unnecessary. This must also be totally inadequate for the PvdA. The checks shall ensure that the work description is in accordance with the agreement and that all information on caregivers is present. That is not even 50% of the declarations that are thrown out of the system! Then you're not here, are you? You have to do a lot more to delete unnecessary rules, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u101	I share your concern about the fact that more than half of this falls out and that the Secretary of State writes in his letter that this would have been remedied by two measures. That would be wonderful, but after 1 November, the controls, which are already on, will have real consequences. We need to know, for example, what the SVB's experiences with phone calls have been during the past period. What happens then? Is it indeed a question of signatures? Does it have to do with unclear forms, as the chain director points out, for which solutions now seem to be solutions? I share your concern. I also want the conditions to be clarified by 1 November. Then the controls will have real consequences. We also want fraud not to pay any more, but there must be clarity about the ticks that people have to put. Unnecessary ticks have to be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u102	I'm gonna take a look at the clock. I have given a lot of room for debate, and it should be, but can the interruptions be shorter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u103	Sure. You say you share the concerns, but you are standing here as a PvdA spokesperson while there is a PvdA Secretary of State. You can do much more than just share the concerns, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u104	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u105	Come up with proposals to delete much more. That's not how you're here, is it? Especially when we realize that most fraud is not at all with the budget holder. He sits at shady care offices, who declare and then put the money in their own pocket. I want more of the PvdA. You're in the situation to do something about it. Then do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u106	Mrs Keijzer says she wants more from me. I want more of this Secretary of State. The area of legality checks without consequences is now up to 1 November. I see there's a call coming in at this time. That is wonderful, but it must be clear to budget holders that after 1 November they can do whatever is necessary to comply. I ask the Secretary of State to delete what appears to be unnecessary in the audit. We need to be clear about this, so that on 1 November the situation does not arise of major failure with any consequences, with all the consequences. That's the question I'm asking the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u107	This debate is also taking place as a result of the transition, the system that concerns it. I have a question about that. Of course, we were all shocked by the article in the Volkskrant which apparently does not meet such a high percentage. It is unclear what the reason for this is. Does the PvdA agree that it would be good to carry out a sample after all? The system is on now, but wouldn't it be good to get an update as a Chamber from the first sample that apparently has been executed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u108	If Mrs Bergkamp means that she wants that information before November, then I would point out that my question to the Secretary of State was: what are the experiences of the SVB with the phone call? That information must be used effectively to ensure that after 1 November we are not faced with a disappointing failure. So that's where I can go with her. Let me point out, however, that this sample should not lead to any delay as far as we are concerned. We do not think that would be justified. We are now at a time when we are doing everything we can to help budget holders. We also see from the letter from the chain director that it's about some pretty simple things. Those simple things need to be solved. Now, if I'm gonna go into what's supposed to be in the sample, I'm gonna be dancing. However, I agree with Mrs Bergkamp that the information that is now being harvested should be used to ensure that we can start with the consequences in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u109	I am glad that Mrs Volp of the PvdA has indicated this. Let's ask the Secretary of State to send that information to the Chamber so we know what's going on. Of course, people worked with a system that wasn't optimal for a year. Calling and getting a letter is therefore perhaps not enough for a certain group of people, also because the current system of SVB and the questions and answers given are not always good either. I understood that there has been administrative consultation and that carrying out a second sample or an update is not desirable because one is afraid of what can come out of it. If that is the case, does the PvdA agree with me that we should at least say as a Chamber that we should not, of course, and that we should simply be entitled to receive a new state of affairs before it is followed up? I also agree with Mrs Volp that this should not lead to delays.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u110	I also agree with the stakeholders, particularly Per Balance, who say that we have come close to the point where the consequences need to be implemented. A sample is fine, but above all I want the action that is now being carried out to achieve as little as possible failure as soon as possible. I do not want us to have another discussion in the future and not to receive what the controls are intended for. So I say yes, but the main purpose of my party is to ensure that those who do not declare now as strictly necessary are able to fish out unnecessary conditions in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u111	I was a little cranky with my colleagues from the opposition, but I can, of course, be even more cribby with my colleagues in the coalition. I am, truly, bewildered that for a period of five years we are dealing with a government that causes people to get into payment problems with their rent and mortgage, that it is the government's fault that people get fines from the Tax Office and get a debt collection agency from the government on their roof. That period lasts for five years. This Secretary of State is responsible for that soloist. I have a question for the Labour Party. Why does this Secretary of State stay in office and why did Wilma Mansveld have to leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u112	I'm not here to exchange views and give a reflection on why one Secretary of State should fall and the other shouldn't. I want this solved. You requested this debate. We are talking today about a number of problems that unfortunately exist on this dossier. I also see that we are almost ready to take a step towards solving many of the problems we have experienced in the past period. I suggest we have a semantic discussion about "why is it and why isn't it?" feeding at another time. Let us now continue to motivate the Secretary of State to come forward in October with a response to Mr Potters' and Mr Van Dijk's motion and to ensure that, in November, the consequences can be linked to the checks and that, as far as is currently available, the failure is as little as possible after 1 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u113	It does not seem to Mrs Volp to understand that she is the one who has the upper hand of the Secretary of State who is soloist responsible for the fact that over a period of five years, 12,000 other caregivers are going to get into payment problems every month by the government, get fines from the Tax Office by the government and get a collection agency put on their roof by the government. Mrs Volp is holding this Secretary of State over his head, but others could fall. Fred Teeven, Ivo Opstelten, Weekers and Mansveld could all leave, but this Secretary of State was not. I hear people say, "He's got to clean up his own mess." But what kind of government do we have if people who cause these problems just sit around?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u114	I expected nothing less than that Mrs Agema would be even more disappointed about my input than about some of the opposition's contributions. I want the Secretary of State to do his job now and Mrs. Agema says he has to leave. We disagree on this. He has to do his job. We have now asked a number of questions about it and put a number of very clear conditions to it. That's what my party says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u115	This file has a long history: one and a half years of debate, apologies from the Secretary of State and excuses from the Social Insurance Bank. I read in a letter from the pgb chain director that the lack of the name and address of the healthcare provider is largely due to the lack of the possibility on the SVB wallet. Until September 2016, the SVB-hour note did not have the possibility to properly deliver the declaration. What does Mrs Volp say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u116	That's way too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u117	Too late?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u118	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u119	Or is it just insufferable? Trust in the Secretary of State has been damaged and far from recovered as far as the SP is concerned. But trust in the SVB, with this kind of thing? Until this month, people couldn't even fill out an hour note that was right. But it's in the media that people are filing illegal declarations! This cannot go on, I say to the Labour Party. What alternative do we have? Is there an alternative to the Social Insurance Bank in the view of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u120	It is now almost October 2016. In particular, I want the name to be entered on the SVB's hour note and that at least this does not lead to a breakdown at the time when the failure actually has consequences. I agree with Mrs Leijten that it is too late. The problem is that we don't have the information we're getting from the Secretary of State in October. So I can't make any statements about who at what time, in what way in a new execution functionality, will manage it in a new portal. Is that the SVB? I haven't gotten there yet. Is that Zorgverzekerings Nederland? I'm reading it in the paper today. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The fact is that, in accordance with the motion, we agreed to be informed in October. Yeah, I can't wait until October, just like you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u121	I simply note that we have debated for a year and a half. In the beginning, nothing was wrong and those who rang the alarm bell, Mrs Keijzer first and then the rest of the opposition, were molested. They would stir up unrest among the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u122	This is for your second term. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u123	I note that after a year and a half from the SVB it is still not in order and that the PvdA does not yet have a solution and accepts that the Secretary of State does not have one either. This is not the way to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion. The PvdA should actually honour itself and certainly the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u124	I do not share Mrs Leijten's view. I think that in the letter from the chain directors, also in view of Per Recht's support, we saw very clearly that, at least by November, there seems to be a solution for linking the consequences to the controls. Yes, I am waiting, like everyone else here in the Chamber, for the letter to come in October, after which we will finally be able to take further steps which, as far as our party is concerned, must be taken as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u125	Mr. Chairman. This debate is characterised by the expression 'wait till you weigh one of us'. A lot of people apply for a pgb and have to wait for them to weigh us down before they get it. We ask for solutions from the Secretary of State and have to wait until we have a solution. More than a year and a half ago, the Secretary of State surprised the whole of the Netherlands about the mess caused by the SVB's right to draw. No ICT system, everything manual and still, a year and a half later, there is no solution. I refer to the quote I just read to the colleague of the Labour Party that until this month there was no possibility of filling in the address on a declaration note; I don't know what kind of world we live in. You'd think it was an incredibly good sketch of a satirical program, but no, it's reality, partly caused by this Secretary of State. He was in charge, he's responsible, and we can't see a solution. In fact, the system as it should have been introduced a year and a half ago is as inadequate as anything. Then we read in the paper that it could take another four years until there is a solution. I want to hear from the Secretary of State today that he's taking the lead not to delay, but to speed things up. Of course, that has to be careful, but the longer we wait, the more we are drawn into the trap of regulation by 2020. If the Per Balance, together with Health Insurance companies Netherlands and the VNG, succeeds in achieving a package of requirements for a portal in the summer, I wonder what the Secretary of State has done in the last year and a half. I would like to see real work done on this now. I will make a statement to the Chamber that we are not waiting at all, but that we are simply giving the green light for the development of this portal, but according to the following conditions: it must be the property of the government, so that data cannot come into the hands of health insurers, and it must work carefully as of 1 January 2018. If that is not possible, there must be a good emergency brake, so that we do not get a clean appearance like when the right of draw was introduced in 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u126	I know the SP as a party that wants all care to be taken care of by the public. Where is the SP now when it comes to the initiative of healthcare insurers Netherlands? We don't know any more than the information from the General Daily. Mrs Leijten believes that the data should remain public. But I'm a little surprised that the SP says: it's fine that Health Insurance companies Netherlands get a very big role in the whole. Where exactly is the SP, looking at the discussions we have on other concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u127	I didn't say they should get a big part. I've seen them play a major role in the absence of the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State, who apologized and said that he would take control and that it would be all right, has done nothing. It is the budget holders, Per Recht, the executives of the Long-Term Care Act, the pgbs, the health insurance companies and the Association of Dutch Municipalities, where the pgbs are located from the Wmo, who obtained a package of requirements for that portal during the summer. I think that's a merit. As far as I'm concerned, they get a compliment for that. Now it's up to the Secretary of State to do that. He should not wait and, as Mrs Keijzer said, see no bumps where you do not have to see them, but simply create speed, but with an emergency braking procedure and in such a way that data is safe. Building a website also means that data can be placed somewhere; we all know those discussions, the chairman like no other. However, the fact that civil society has come to a solution, while the Secretary of State has hired an expensive chain director's office and went on holiday himself, is a sign to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u128	As you know, with Per Balance, D66 has laid the foundations for the current system of budget holders. I am therefore pleased that Mrs Leijten thinks that is a good scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u129	You also know that we supported this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u130	Exactly, so I repeat that. It is sometimes fun to repeat positive things in the debate. However, I am a little surprised at the role of Zorgverzekerings Nederland. Let me say that I am glad that the SP is open minded about this, because I notice in certain discussions that it is being proposed very black and white: everything needs to be public. So I am glad that the SP at least gives an opening and says that if something is organized and managed privately...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u131	That's not what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u132	Perhaps it is then a good thing that Mrs Leijten explains what the limits are for her when it comes to the role of health insurers in the personal budget. There are also concerns about how health insurance companies are now dealing with the personalised budget. What are the limits for the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u133	I'm not quite sure what your question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u134	It's not a mix-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u135	What are the limits for SP when it comes to the role of health insurers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u136	That is a very different debate, but I am very pleased that you have given me the opportunity. We'd like to see...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u137	Mrs. Leijten, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u138	Now you're talking through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u139	Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u140	It's about the pgb.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u141	She asks how we see the role for the health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u142	I keep an eye on things here and time. Mrs Bergkamp is asking a question. That is a very broad question, which we are not going to deal with in detail. I would ask Mrs Leijten to reply briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u143	Mr President, may I point it out a little further?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u144	No, I give the floor to Mrs Leijten. She understood exactly what you meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u145	Looking at the problems in the healthcare system, we say that the health insurance companies need not play a role in the future. At the moment, however, they do have that role. They used their knowledge and time during the summer, together with Per Recht and the Vereniging Nederlandse Gemeenten, to make that package of requirements for that portal. That was at the request of the Chamber. In the absence of the Secretary of State and the chain directors, they did so. They're creating blockades now. I say to the Secretary of State: embrace that package of demands, get on with it and do not raise thresholds where they are not. If they are there, then I am prepared, as Mrs Keijzer said, to overcome those bumps in legislative processes or other matters. We all do not want it to be resolved until 2020. And that's what the Secretary of State is aiming for. I think that takes advantage of due diligence criteria. Of course, it must be careful and decent to keep the data in the hands of commercial parties, the health insurers, but the Secretary of State must embrace the portal with the package of demands and give it speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u146	Can the portal be managed by health insurers? Or does Mrs Leijten just want them to be allowed to formulate the functional requirements and thus stop the role of health insurers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u147	In my view, the proposal is not at all that the management should be the responsibility of the health insurers. If it were to end up there, it would be in the absence of this Secretary of State, so because he doesn't. I'd say don't let that situation happen. After all, if the health insurance companies start to manage this, they will also receive the data. I don't want them on that treasure of data. That was exactly my plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u148	Were you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u149	Oh, no, not by a long shot, Mr. Chairman. We have been promised that compensation will be provided for those affected. I haven't seen anything yet. What has the Secretary of State been doing recently? I see that this year's budget has earmarked money for this, but not next year. Can I assume that everyone will be compensated in 2016? Budget holders are put away time and time again as fraudsters, while it appears that it is not possible to add an address field to an hour note. Fortunately, that has now been repaired, but can we stop doing so now and can the Secretary of State stop the SVB from throwing away budget holders as fraudsters? A lot has already been said about having to fill out 65 pages if you have a disabled son. So I can be brief, but what does the Secretary of State think of the Kafkaesque and humiliating system that has been created to show that you actually have a disabled son and that care is really needed, while nothing is being done to offer a solution to people who cannot declare? Is the Secretary of State prepared to come up with a solution, not just in 2020, but just now? If necessary, I'll table a motion for that. After all, I think it is unnecessary that 65 pages should be filled in. It's expensive, but like I said, it's mostly humiliating. Correct declarations show 95% payout. The SVB has informed us that 61% is not lawful. How about this? Does this mean that 95% of the remaining 39% will be paid on time? That could explain why so many complaints are still coming in. I had hoped that today we would have a debate with a solid VVD, which would actually demand that a solution be found today. But the monkey came out of the sleeve: the VVD waits until November to make a decision. I think that's too late. Then we will be pulled into a trap and a solution will only be found in 2020. That is why today, together with anyone who wants to do so, I will press for a solution today, so that we can reach 1 January 2018, because I cannot explain that such a big problem will not be solved within three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u150	I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u151	I call on the public gallery to remain silent. I would ask Members to take their place. I'd be happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u152	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input. I think it would be good to outline at the beginning of the debate where I think we are now. There are two issues at the same time in the debate. On the one hand, there is the debate on the functioning of the current system and on what we are doing with the controls. A number of questions have been asked. On the other hand, we have been asked about the reports and the state of the future. In fact, we have already agreed on a debate on this, which will take place at the end of October, at the beginning of November. A number of Members have already mentioned this. First of all, I would like to outline where we are at the moment; I will of course come back to a number of specific questions. After the problems of early 2015, we have made it a step-by-step way to ensure that the existing system could at least do its job in terms of payments. There has been a step-by-step process of stabilisation. We've been looking at how to get the payment rhythms in order so they could be paid on time. Among other things, there has been use of a coulance scenario, so to speak, in which it was said: of course we control the things that matter.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. We are not doing any other formal administrative checks to ensure that this does not disrupt the payment rhythm. I think that has paid off. We can now see that payments are stable. There are no or hardly any more applications for the so-called "wealth channel," which remains intact. Of course, there are still problems, but as regards payments and the speed of payment, you can see in general that the speed of payment is in order, that almost 100% is paid within 30 days and 95% within 10 days, that there are no more emergency payments and that the accessibility of the Social Insurance Bank has come into order; the Chamber can see the figures on that last point in the letter I sent on this matter. We have come to the point where we intend to take the next step now, namely to carry out the formal administrative checks. At the time, we agreed with the Chamber that that time would come, but also that we would look at how this could be done in a responsible way. I shall come back to that in a moment. The second point is that we are looking at how to do it in the future. We've made a deal about that, too. A debate has been agreed on this. So we are working at the same time to make the system customer-friendly for budget holders in the future, for example by doing digital controls. The term "portal" is the term that has emerged. During the summer, we agreed in this Chamber that it would be a good thing if the budget holders themselves and Per Balance, in consultation with other parties, would formulate the functional requirements for such a portal from the client's point of view. For example, we would have a good basis for assessing later on whether the budget holder portal can work in this way. We have explicitly given Per Balance the lead in defining those functional requirements. I am pleased to say that this has indeed led to results. Thanks to Per Recht and the parties that have worked together, we have not only managed to formulate the functional requirements but also to establish them. I will, of course, inform the Chamber in October about what it means for the next step and how it will then be built. I expect to be able to present to the Chamber that plan, which I will go into in detail later on, at the end of October. We are now working very intensively with the parties to discuss how we are going to achieve it if we can do it with those functional requirements. It is good to say now that I am very pragmatic. I choose speed, provided it can be done carefully. At the moment, I am not so much interested in the question of who will manage it and how it will all turn out. If we now agree on the functional requirements and if we agree on the way in which it could be done quickly, let me say again: I will come back to this in detail later, and that seems to me to be the way forward. I will be able to present that plan to the Chamber in November. I have the ambition and I have the timetable. I can do all that in view of the forthcoming debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u153	Mrs Leijten, I doubt whether I will give you the floor. I have a tendency to have the Secretary of State explain first what he's up to and then give you the opportunity to interrupt. How would you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u154	Can we get that timeline? That was actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u155	It's possible. We have agreed that we will have a debate on this with each other. I'll give the Chamber that plan at the end of October, including time schedule and foreseeable costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u156	Please continue, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u157	I feel like that time frame is already there. We are told that 2020 is now the starting point. We just haven't seen it yet. I therefore ask the Secretary of State: is it true that it is assumed to be operable by 2020? If not, what acceleration does the Secretary of State see in front of him? Couldn't we start from 1 January 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u158	You keep saying "20-20." You mean "2020."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u159	I do mean "2020," Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u160	"2020" has not heard from me by Mrs Leijten. It is not possible, because we have agreed that I will present the moment to the Chamber by means of a plan. My ambition extends further. I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u161	So the 2020 timetable is wrong, says the Secretary of State. His ambitions extend further. Are we going to start from 1 January 2018? Can the Secretary of State answer in the affirmative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u162	I'm going to go into that in detail later. We agreed with each other that I would present to the Chamber at the end of October, beginning of November, that plan, in which I deal with the costs, the timetable and the way in which we are going to implement the portal. "As soon as possible" is very sweet to me. If you can do it on January 1, 2018, it's even better for me. "2020" doesn't come from me. The Chamber hasn't heard that from me either. I will present to the Chamber a plan in which I will correctly express the timetable, the realization and our efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u163	It would have been nice if it had already become a little clearer in this debate. The only thing that makes sense is that we're still getting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u164	The Secretary of State just said: I will come back to it in detail, I will explain it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u165	But on the question of whether it will be 1 January 2018, he unfortunately cannot give a positive answer. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u166	Mr President, I am sorry, but I would still like to comment. Mrs Leijten asks if I am going out from 2020. The answer is no. The second point is that we agreed that I would present to you a plan on the construction of such a portal containing the parties with which it can, a timetable and the costs, and that we would consider how we can achieve that. That's what I'm gonna give you. My ambition is to do so as soon as possible. If we can do that on 1 January 2018, that would be fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u167	I would like to support Mrs Leijten in this. We all hear in the walkway that VWS indicates that, if the lead leaves the Social Insurance Bank, there is a need for a legislative change and that it will be 2020. So I agree with Mrs Leijten that, if VWS thinks so, the question is why we do not hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u168	Because the Chamber and I agreed on how we're gonna proceed. I have promised you that at the end of October, at the beginning of November, there will be a plan, which is now being intensively discussed with the parties, that agreements will be made and that I will inform the Chamber accordingly. And then we have a debate on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u169	Is it or is it not the case that VWS has indicated that, if the lead for the portal is no longer in the Social Insurance Bank, there will have to be a legislative change and it will be 2020? Yes or no, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u170	That's another question. You're linking it to 2020. If we think that the Social Insurance Bank is not going to be able to manage and implement it, a legislative amendment is necessary, but I am not interested in that question at the moment. I am in the process of making sure that there is a portal, as we agreed with the Chamber, that it will be built as soon as possible and that we can make agreements with each other about who will carry it out and who will manage it. I am very pragmatic at that. We will also say that, where this is best done, this must be done quickly and carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u171	I think it's really weird. The Secretary of State is constantly discussing administrative matters where this question is simply on the table, but he does not want to talk about it with the Chamber. I don't think that's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u172	I wouldn't like that either, but I'd like to talk to the Chamber about that. I also agreed with you to deliver a proper plan for this, in accordance with the agreement with the Chamber. Mr Potters asked me whether that really was on 1 November. Yes, that really is 1 November, so that we can take decisions on that basis. As far as I am concerned, it will be very clear how we are going to implement this portal, who is needed for it, at what rate it can be done, how much it costs and what aspects we need to take even more into account. Because Mrs Bergkamp is also on the Interrupt Microphone... She has also insisted on that care and that is a very justified point, because I really want to do so. What have we learned from how to do that? It must be done with due care. We didn't get the Elias report for nothing. Mr President, I am sorry to mention you for a moment, but in this case it is okay. That report sets out the aspects to be taken into account when it comes to large ICT investments. It is not for nothing that we have said to each other that a BIT advice is needed to ensure that we can see the consequences throughout the chain. So yes, my aim is indeed to do so as soon as possible, but this must be done carefully as agreed with this Chamber: how should we deal with ICT projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u173	Mrs. Bergkamp, is there another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u174	Has the report received by the Chamber passed through the special section of the Chamber? Is the BIT opinion included, or is that a process that will take place afterwards? And is there also a focus on governance? After all, that also went wrong when we look at the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u175	The BIT will speak on the basis of a concrete plan, so it will have to take place afterwards. We are, of course, already in contact with the people of BIT to bring them into the process. And, of course, we will also have to pay great attention to governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u176	Then, of course, the Chamber cannot make a final decision. We have agreed that the BIT, which has played an important role in the process, must also find something of that. If it's BIT negative, maybe you should come back to it. Can the Secretary of State give us anything more? We'll get the report. When is the BIT opinion going to be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u177	I can't comment on that right now. We need to discuss this further with the BIT, but I can well imagine that in the description of the plan we will indicate exactly how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u178	Thank you. And is governance properly described?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u179	Yeah, I just turned that in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u180	I suggest the Secretary of State starts his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u181	A number of questions have been asked about the coulance regime that is now before us. Last summer, therefore, we intensively communicated with budget holders and healthcare providers the requirements that the health care agreements and declarations should meet, in anticipation of the situation in which we say that the controls should actually be carried out more. This has already been done with regard to health care agreements. They come into the Social Insurance Bank spread over time and this process has so far been orderly. Information on declarations was also launched in September. We've just done that sample to find out what the potential is going to go wrong. There is no failure now, because if the formal controls are not complied with, we will pay anyway. If you want to go to the situation where we do not pay if the checks are not met, you want to know why. That's what the sample was for. This showed that a large number of declarations would not meet the formal requirements if you were to operate in that way. This involved, for example, the signature of the budget holder. It seems a very formal point that the budget holder's signature is missing, but, among other things, Per Balance has convinced me that this is a very important, albeit formal, control option. After all, the budget holder, who must be in charge, must be able to assess whether the declaration submitted by the healthcare provider is correct. That is why there is such a great deal of consensus about initiating controls. That's not because it's so nice to turn on controls, but because of two aspects. The first aspect is the safety of the budget holder. It can then be more in control, monitoring what is happening and making comments about it. Then there are no declarations from healthcare providers that the budget holder doesn't know about, for things that haven't happened at all or in any other way. That is a very important argument. Secondly, there is the question of legality. If all the controls are complied with, the providers of the budget, i.e. municipalities and health offices, can assume that the declarations are regular and lawful. As regards Mrs Keijzer's questions, I have, of course, also considered whether all these checks should be carried out. All parties have looked at this too. The checks on declarations, apart from all those things that are already taking place, must be carried out, because they are very essential things, which strengthen the position of the budget holder. Is the signature of the budget holder or his representative on the declaration? Is there a valid budget from the municipality? Is it explicitly stated what happened and for how many hours? Did we catch the good caregiver? There's really been a review of what's necessary and what's not necessary. And of the checks on the declarations that are still to be made, each party says that they should indeed take place. It's possible. If we delete those few things that we have now deleted, we will have a control set that is really in the interests of the budget holder. Mr Potters rightly said: yes, very well that this is happening now, but we should not get back to the situation in which there is a breakdown, like at the beginning of 2015. I'm gonna paraphrase him right now. Mr Potters is, of course, quite right about that. I agree; I don't want to. Of course, we have to avoid that big outburst. That is why we have the individual approach of budget holders in the lead-in period. They call and are informed in writing. Additional capacity is available at the Sociale Verzekeringsbank so that there can be a response when it comes to an adjustment of the claims or more calls. We have also closely aligned this information to the budget holders with Per Balance and the association of small health care institutions. Of course, I don't have a crystal ball. I can't see what the results are either. In the end, therefore, we will have to look at effectiveness. Of course, we keep a very close eye on them, to ensure that that failure will not be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u182	The reason why we are having this debate is actually very simple. A lot of people at home who have been in trouble for a year and a half want clarity: do I end up in the same situation as on 1 January 2015 and what does the future look like? They're vulnerable people who want clarity. A clear answer has been given to the second question. On 1 November there is just a plan, on which the Chamber can decide. I welcome that commitment. However, we need to be absolutely clear about the question: is there going to be another large-scale failure or is the risk simply removed? I would like a clearer answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u183	We don't want this massive outburst. So we also take everything out of the closet to prevent it. We are monitoring this process so closely that we could also intervene if that were to be the case. I am not assuming that, by the way. We do a lot of individual approach. People get calls and they're informed in writing. Per Balance has also used information tools for this purpose. The accessibility of the Social Insurance Bank, both its capacity and its telephone accessibility, is in order. I therefore believe that this condition will be met. However, Mr Potters is right. I am keeping a close eye on it so that we can intervene if it leads to other problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u184	The fact that it happens is, of course, partly preventable by the information that the employees of the Social Insurance Bank now receive via phone calls. Can the Secretary of State tell us anything about that? What do they come across? Is it estimated that the people they now have on the phone or reach by letter will no longer need to be called after 1 November? So how do we make sure they don't get hurt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u185	We will also try to monitor this as closely as possible during the start-up period in order to find out what the reasons are. They are very diverse, by the way. They range from people who forgot something to people who say, "Oh, I have to, thank you, I'll change the declaration." In the end, you will of course remain dependent on the budget holder who may or may not change his declaration to indicate someone from the Social Insurance Bank. We will try to monitor the reasons as best we can, so that we know them and can look very closely at what else we can do about them. Of course, the best possible assistance should also be given to those budget holders who have not been able to fully understand what is needed for a declaration beyond their fault or for whatever reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u186	If you make a mistake because you forgot something, it's gonna have huge consequences. We have agreed that these are the consequences and we have to accept them. I am not under any illusions that there will soon be no one to deal with it. Suppose someone makes a mistake because he forgets to sign, will the employee indicate that forgetting a signature at a later date has enormous consequences? Will he ask that person if he is aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u187	That is exactly what is going to happen during the start-up period. The employee will say: listen, on these two points your declaration was not good; we will pay it this month, but pay attention, because if it is not right again the next month, the payment will not go through. He will say that we really need to ensure that the declaration on these points is in order in the coming month and he will also explain how that can be done. That's how the habit is shaped. You may assume that as a rule it will go well. But again: in the pgb-file things always happen that you couldn't have thought of in advance. That's what Mrs. Volp is right to say. So we will follow it closely and we will see what the consequences will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u188	The Secretary of State is talking in this block about the coulance regulation. That term is, of course, squarely wrong. That term implies that the budget holder is a kind of criminal and that he is given some coulance. We all know that this Secretary of State does not have a functioning system until 2018, and probably only from 2020. Thanks to the Secretary of State, people get into trouble with their payments, even with the Tax Office, their rent and their mortgage. That's the Secretary of State's fault. However, he comes up with a coulance arrangement. How does he survive November 1st? That doesn't just depend on a timetable and the way the portal looks like. If the Secretary of State is going to check from 1 November onwards, and he has to do so, because his current system is a fraud magnet, and the consequence is that honest people are not going to be paid out, how will he survive the period after 1 November as Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u189	The room is about my survival, not me. So that's up to the Chamber. We're doing this right so that the budget holder can direct himself. On the contrary, the budget holder has no problem checking for the signature. In fact, that is in the interests of the budget holder. The budget holder has an interest in ensuring that the health care provider's declaration is correct. These controls are not there because the budget holder is cheating, because in the vast majority of cases this is not the case at all. However, there may be declarations from the healthcare provider whose budget holder says: it is not correct. There's got to be that opportunity. That last step in the administrative checks is now on. That is very much in the interests of the budget holder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u190	Yes, yes, one last step in administrative controls, while 61% is not lawful. If such a large percentage of declarations is not lawful, it attracts fraudsters. Honest people are the victims of this, people who are already the victims of the government and who are in payment difficulties. Why am I asking how the Secretary of State survives November 1st? He says that the situation after the start-up period of 1 November is as follows. Checks are being carried out, as they are now, and if incomplete declarations could not be paid as a result, payment will not be made. But how can you control a system that doesn't work? How can you stop payments to honest people? And how can the Secretary of State survive that? The Secretary of State says that's what the Chamber is about. In my opinion, Secretary of State Weekers said something like "Mrs. President, we have had a wide-ranging debate today on matters that are very dear to me" and so on. He took credit for himself. Why does this Secretary of State, who sees November 1st and sees that it is not sustainable, not? Why doesn't he take credit for himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u191	It is not for nothing that we have introduced the system of drawing rights with a rather large majority in the Chamber. In the past, the money was deposited into the budget holder's account and subsequently checked. We can think differently about that, but there was great agreement that this was not a good system. It facilitated a number of inaccuracies and fraud, not with the budget holder, but with desks and caregivers. The switch to the draw right gives a system with pre-checking. The money doesn't just get deposited in the account. Now we are talking about how to further shape the ex ante control. There is already being checked, really much more than in the old system. You don't get any money in your account. They're looking at the budget you have in advance. It's agreed in advance what kind of care you get. It is agreed in advance at what rate. That's all happening. We are now taking the step of encouraging administrative controls, which are also in the interests of the budget holder. If we do this properly and carefully, we will have to change it in the current system; we will come to the conclusion that we have done the best we can for the budget holder and that improper use and fraud by others other than the budget holder will be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u192	Last time, no repeats, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u193	The Secretary of State says that we have all introduced the right of draw. That is false, it is factually incorrect. The Secretary of State went against better judgment, while all signals were on red, working soloistically. He didn't inform the room. He has received two motions of censure. The Secretary of State is therefore solely responsible and not the Chamber. He's only responsible for all these payment problems. My question to the Secretary of State, who he is not going to answer, was how he will survive the case after 1 November if he does not want a magnet for fraudsters and also wants to ensure that honest people just get their money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u194	I do not know whether I can convince Mrs Agema today or in November. All I can do is to do my best to ensure that we make the current system work as well as possible and that the necessary controls, including in the interests of the budget holder, can be triggered responsibly. We will work as well and as hard as possible on a new system, including a budget holder portal that will make it more user-friendly for the budget holder and that the controls that need to be carried out manually can be done as much digitally as possible. I'm working hard on that, and I'm gonna keep working hard on that as long as I'm given that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u195	You'd almost get soft knees: a secretary of state who says he'll do his best and work hard. Nevertheless, after more than a year and a half, we are still standing here with a system in which it was not possible to enter the address details on the SVB-hour note. Tadada! That was the cause of a quarter of the illegal cases brought by the SVB into the media as fraud against budget holders. How does the Secretary of State feel about that now? What does he think about it that after a year and a half, it still turns out that the Social Insurance Bank's forms are out of order so you can't declare? What does this say?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u196	Two things. First of all, it was possible to declare, because the emergency scenarios meant that it was said on those points that it should not lead to a breakdown. Secondly, it was found in a sample that something could not be completed on one of the forms and that this could lead to an unjustified breakdown. It was discovered late, which is worthless, but it's good that we find out now. This is precisely the result of the decision that, if we were to initiate the controls, we would go through them again with a comb to determine whether there are anything else in it that is improper and that affects budget holders. I think it's late, but it's good that it's been discovered before it leads to consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u197	Already in January/February 2015, we had a huge debate about people who were not paid out. It explains a lot that this could not be done, if an address field cannot be filled in. At that time, all kinds of checks were carried out at the request of the Chamber so that the declarations could continue. It is only in the eyes of the weather that such conditions emerge that the Social Insurance Bank simply has a wrong form. I find this indicative of the file. If the Secretary of State considers this to be logical, I do not think that it would be possible for him to ensure that, after 1 November, if the legality of the declarations is really considered, there is no problem with the possibilities offered by the Social Insurance Bank for a declaration: no missing address field, no errors in anything? Can he vouch for that? Because when this kind of crazy mistakes are made, people get into trouble. After all, this is about people's salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u198	No, I just need to correct something. The monthly payments just keep going. This is about the declarations. That's one. Secondly, it cannot be the same payment problems as in 2015, because they were caused by other issues: late care agreements or a budget plan that was not ready. Now we are talking about the final step, namely whether a declaration is entirely satisfactory. With all parties, we have considered whether we should carry out these checks and whether they are also in the interest of the budget holder. Are these the right forms and we're gonna check it out that way? All parties say: yes, that's how it can and that's how we have to do it. So all the parties have said that this is how we can handle the controls. It is the maximum guarantees that we can create with each other to make the process work. That doesn't change the fact that I'm still going to see what it means and that I can intervene at the moment we think: hey, that's not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u199	Finally, could I ask the Secretary of State about the following? There were reports in the media that 800,000 declarations were unlawful. We can now see that only 5% of them have problems with the agreement on the declaration and the work. That kind of thing should no longer be reported in the media as if the budget holders were illegal, when it is simply about errors with forms, signatures and that sort of thing. So, in 5% of these situations, it was really about a declaration that didn't have any work to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u200	I very much agree with that, but when we talk about controls we should also be careful not to think immediately: oh, they are or are not because of fraud. That is not so splashed by my knowledge either, and it should not be splashed like that. We also need to look at what control requirements should be met in a normal way in the pgbs. I shall come back to this in a moment to Mrs Keijzer's questions. Declarations can be checked and this should not lead to unnecessary situations because a budget holder loses his way. This has nothing to do with fraud, but simply with an adequate control policy. That's part of declaring care. That is also in the interest of the budget holder to ensure that he or she continues to direct. That seems incredibly important to me. Controls must be there, whether they're on fraud or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u201	But when you put the label "unrighteous" on a pgb declaration, you can check what the image is next. The first thing to be thought of then is fraud, by the people who made the declaration. If then it turns out that it's because the Social Insurance Bank didn't have its data in order and makes forms that weren't right, isn't that a very bad thing? I would like a qualification from the Secretary of State. I would like to raise a second point. I also asked in my term if the Secretary of State would ask the Social Insurance Bank to make standard forms. How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u202	You're smuggling a little with two questions in one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u203	There is a standard form, but I will return to that in my reply. I get the other point. The moment you say that a payment is unlawful because a number of checks have not been carried out, that does not have to mean anything about fraud. If for any reason that has nothing to do with fraud a signature or address is missing, I also understand that the term "unrighteous payment" can evoke the idea: is that up to me? However, that is not the case. If all the necessary controls have not been carried out for the time being, according to our laws and regulations, this will lead to a payment for lawfully delivered care, which can be considered unlawful as such. We have discussed this extensively in the Chamber. This has to do with annual accounts and so on. That is very annoying and it is precisely the reason why all the parties say: we must get rid of it as soon as possible. For example, they are just legitimate payments within the meaning of the laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u204	But even a missing signature or a missing address already suggests that the error lies with the pgb-holder and he has done something wrong. When the SVB brings out information about pgb declarations, it says what percentage is irregular and that there are no addresses and signatures, then it is suggested that pgb holders have done it sloppy. With all the discussions people already have, when they have to explain at birthday parties that they are not a fraud, is this really unfortunate, especially after what has happened in recent years? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State, also in the direction of the pgb-holders, that he does not approve of it and does not approve of it if it is communicated about pgb-holders in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u205	I agree with Mrs Voortman. I would like to point out that no communication has been made, not even by the Social Insurance Bank, that the payments are unlawful and that this is because of fraud. In fact, I sent a letter about this illegality to the House of Representatives, because it was asked to do so at the transition of the year. Once again, I said explicitly: let us note that illegality does not mean that fraud has taken place, but that something is missing in a formal sense. I understand, however, that it can be incredibly annoying for budget holders when you talk about unlawfulness, with all the discussions that have taken place about it, and that they can feel this as if they are being put back in a corner. That is not good, and that is not the intention. Let me also say at this point that the controls are not being introduced because budget holders are cheating, which we have no indication of either, but rather to put them more in control so that they too can direct on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u206	I would nevertheless like to support my colleague Voortman's plea. I thought the coverage was very one-sided. There's gonna be more. I actually want to hear from the Secretary of State that he is going to watch over it in future communication. That one-sided coverage must end sometime. Mrs Voortman is absolutely right: when you talk about illegality, people think of fraud. And look what these people have been through over the last year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u207	I agree, and in all our communications we will watch very closely and give no reason to do so. I do not believe that Mrs Bergkamp gives me the power to tell what the media are writing about it. Of course, we will not do so in all the expressions for which we are responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u208	Of course, the media are about their own texts. I would ask the Secretary of State to discuss this explicitly with the SVB. I understood that the communication was created there. I found it really unhappy and really one-sided. If the Secretary of State agrees with me and Mrs Voortman, I ask him to at least have the discussion with the SVB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u209	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u210	We are now getting very close to the point that is really at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u211	I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u212	If 61% of the declarations are not lawful, we have to deal with budget holders who are not perpetrators, but victims of a system that is not in place and that is probably only in 2018 or 2020. This Secretary of State is responsible. He has just said that 'unjustified' should not be taken too seriously. I think that is very serious. As early as 2014, the General Court considered this to be an imperfection. Already! I just dropped a book on the floor. It's called Sinistra and it's about my previous life as Secretary of State in North Holland. I never tabled a motion of censure here, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u213	Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u214	No, I'm sorry, I was a statesman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u215	You said Secretary of State in North Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u216	No, no, thank God. We had a deputy there, who is a deputy named Ton Hooijmaijers and is now in jail. He also handled non-justice very lightly. I do not want to say that the Secretary of State disappears in prison, but you have to deal with it very carefully. You really should never say that it's not all that bad with a percentage of 61. At that time, however, I tabled a motion of censure on legality. I haven't done that yet. The Secretary of State needs more time, but the Secretary of State has to get on his feet. He can't let this continue. My question was that he should not take the concept of 'justice' too lightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u217	I call for this debate to be discussed with due care in any case. I don't take "unrighteousness" lightly. That is precisely why we have agreed with the parties to conduct the checks in a responsible manner. And so carefully that the legality that now exists in the declarations disappears in a formal sense, but not after we have informed the budget holder once again and once again in writing and orally, helping the budget holder to do so, so that the current system also leads to legitimate payments, including within the meaning of the law. You and I distinguish between the unlawful payment and whether it is caused by fraud or not. No, in many cases it isn't. This means that it is precisely for the budget holder that it is important to control legality and controls themselves. That only helps the budget holder, precisely to prevent a debate on fraud that should not be conducted at all, because in many cases it is not the issue and not the fault of the budget holder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u218	I see such desperate gestures, Mrs. Agema, that I give you one last chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u219	That is precisely my point. "Not lawful" means: no fraud. "Not lawful" also means that you will not get your money paid from 1 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u220	No, Mr. Chairman. We have agreed that a declaration must comply with a number of rules. There's got to be a signature underneath that says the budget holder checked it. The health care provider needs to be known. It must be clear how many hours worked. It must be avoided that this is missing. We are now saying that we are going to initiate these controls and that we are going to help the budget holders to properly complete the declarations. We need to inform the budget holder properly, so he can't say he didn't know. This should ultimately lead to legitimate claims. This is in the interests of law and regulation. I am referring here to legality, defaults and accountability. It is also in the interests of the budget holder, because then there will be no discussion as to whether something is going on. In many cases, there's nothing to worry about. It's gonna help if the controls are on that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u221	The Minister said at the end: in many cases nothing is going on. Shouldn't we be talking about that now? Have we not created a bureaucratic monstrum that is going to cause payments to fail so immediately, when there is nothing going on? Should we not, as I argued in my speech, review or delete many more controls because we come to the conclusion that we really do not need them to deal with the personal budget in a good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u222	That is precisely what we have been discussing in relation to what controls we are going to carry out and what controls we are going to carry out. I just tried to tell you what it's about. Declarations shall bear the signature of the budget holder. I assume Mrs Keijzer agrees,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u223	I'm getting a question, Mr. Chairman. Why? After all, it is the budget holder who submits the declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u224	No, the health care provider's filing the declaration. That declaration will then end up with the Social Insurance Bank. If it is correct, the health care provider's declaration has a signature from the budget holder indicating that he has checked the declaration and agrees with it. That seems to me to be a sensible check.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u225	So that's the question. If at the beginning of the whole process you look at how it can be done in a different way, I think you'll get a lot further. In this context, I would like to mention the guaranteed aid, which is of great interest to me. I think the Secretary of State wants to peel off all these things. We will then be able to make up to 60% of all declarations which are now outstanding and whose checks will continue on 1 November. You know what I see then, Mr. Chairman? I'm beginning to see a bunch of lemmings heading towards the abyss. The Secretary of State insists it's all right. The VVD says the checks must be carried out on 1 November. Why? I think to myself: to say goodbye to this Secretary of State later, if everything goes wrong. Per Balance also wants the controls to be used, because that is what I understand is afraid of the bad picture of fraud with pgbs. It is time to think outside the existing system. Otherwise we will not get any further and in November we will be looking at the same problems that were there at the beginning of this year. I really want to avoid that, for the sake of the budget holders and the caregivers. It has rightly been said a number of times that this is about people's salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u226	So that's what we're sharing. Let me rephrase. Whatever system you invent, whether digital or manual, there are a number of essentials that will always have to be looked at. Are we paying out to the right person? Does the budget holder agree? Is that what you've been getting on the budget spent on that part, too? These are basic controls that everyone, from budget holder to provider, believes makes sense to introduce. I very much agree with Mrs Keijzer that it can all be simpler, that it can be more digital and that it can be much more customer friendly with a budget holder portal. That is exactly why we are working on this at the same time. It is important to ensure that in the current system you no longer have discussions about legality and at the same time work to make it smarter, better, smarter and more effective. It should also be more user-friendly for the budget holder. That's the second track: working on the future. Those are the two tracks I have and I would really like to keep to, because this is in the interest of the proper functioning of the pgbs and is also very in the interest of the budget holder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u227	Mrs. Keijzer, no repeats, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u228	Without repetitions, with one exception: like lemmings towards the abyss. I have here the letter from the chain director. 61% of the declarations are out of order. That letter sets out the reasons for this, but 70% of the reasons are not mentioned here. For only 40% of the failure, the check is deleted, i.e. for four out of ten declarations. So this is going to lead to a huge amount of payout. I hope I'm wrong, but when I see the Secretary of State like that, I think, man, you're organizing your own fall this way! You shouldn't want this for the sake of the personal budget, should you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u229	It is very in the interest of the personal budget that the budget holder is in control of expenditure. In the new system we are building, we are going to facilitate it by means of a portal. In the old system we ensure that the controls are also good. I have already said what measures we are all taking to support the budget holder in getting his or her declarations legally. We're gonna help the budget holder and call. I am watching this very closely, because nobody wants this to lead to an unjustified breakdown of payments to the detriment of the budget holder. That's why we're watching this so closely. We can also intervene if this proves to be the case, but it is very important that we take that last step now, so that declarations can be made lawfully and so that the budget holder has control over it. Everyone agrees that's good. This is also very important for the budget holder, unless we decide to let this go and to point all the arrows at the new system, because it will probably get better. But also in the new system, perhaps automated, it will be examined whether it is the good budget holder, whether the budget is correct and whether it is the right rates. They are similar controls, but hopefully they will be solved in a smarter, more convenient and digital way. If we can get things done now, it will also help in the transition to the new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u230	The Secretary of State continues his speech. I suspect he has actually dealt with a lot in the interruptions. I ask him to avoid repetitions as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u231	In general terms, a number of questions have been asked about the administrative burden in the pgb, in particular the completion of the forms. I think we have all been touched by the letter from the mother who, as she herself writes, has been trying to see her son as a child for 16 years, but has to write everything down and repeat everything. That's incredibly sad. I understand perfectly well that from that perspective, when they have to write that down every time, parents are wondering why this is really necessary. Isn't it obvious yet? Can't you be clear that this has already been communicated? Without going too far into the case: Madame and her son are just entitled to Wlz care. Fortunately, it is also available. In the meantime, the municipality where Madame and her son live continues the payments. This concern is therefore safeguarded, but this does not mean that these signals of bureaucracy must be taken seriously. You're sitting here a little bit with the balance that's in the whole discussion. On the one hand, you want to make sure that it is as user-friendly as possible. On the other hand, it is logical that there are a number of checks on a personal budget of €70,000, but at the same time it is extremely annoying that you have to fill in ten times the same things. In this case, but also in other cases, this is due to the fact that there are five different health care providers with five different health care contracts, which then result in five different forms. I understand that, too. Hopefully these data can be combined more quickly in the budget holder portal and budget holders will not have to re-enter it ten times. I have a great willingness to see what we can do now to make this work smarter and better. We're doing the same thing. We're giving information. We ensure that there is one care plan and that the data is already entered on My PCI. We are making improvements to the information system. So we are working, but the real breakthrough will only follow if we are able to ensure with the budget holder portal that the controls can take place much more digitally and automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u232	Mrs Leijten is at the interrupting microphone, but I wanted the Secretary of State to finish his story now. He has now made his own speech for ten minutes but has been behind the speaker's seat for 50 minutes. Mrs. Leijten, why don't you just do what I ask? We have an agenda, more things have to be done. I've given all the space. Now let's tell the Secretary of State a few things, and then I'll give you an opportunity to interrupt. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u233	Mr. Chairman. As a consequence, the question is: how can we improve the application process for a pgb, especially in the Long-Term Care Act? A number of questions were asked about this. Too much bureaucracy is a thorn in my eye, too. I have just said that the entry of address data, for example, should not be repeated over and over again. A motion has been tabled on this matter by Mrs Volp. Per Balance has taken the lead in drawing up the program of requirements in the use of that portal, which is precisely to ensure that these things are better regulated and things are filled in automatically. Then you don't have to do the same ten times and budget holders can safely and simply do their administration for that pgb in that portal. I expect a lot of that. This will solve a number of problems. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are points on which we must already look at whether it can be simpler. Mrs Volp has explained that we may need to zoom even more closely in on the transition from one system to another. That also played a role for that lady; she came from the Youth Act and went to the Long-Term Care Act. I have every willingness to look together with Per Balance and the insurers to see whether that process can also be organised smarter. By the way, the health offices have already indicated to me that they want to do the same. I believe that we must continue to strive for these improvements. I come to the point of the future, following a comment made by Mrs Bergkamp. She said, and I paraphrase just for a moment: what will become the balance between speed and care? I would like to repeat that again because I want to have said that it is my goal that that portal can be realized on 1 January 2018. That is what all the efforts are aimed at. I would also like to point out that we have heard from the BIT, the General Court of Auditors and the National Ombudsman all kinds of things: if you are going to do something new and make the ICT systems, look at the Elias report, ask for advice from the BIT and then make sure that all chain partners are hooked up so that not one party says "that's how we're going to do it" and the rest of it needs to be talked about afterwards. That's incredibly important. What is potentially very beautiful is also a little bit of a reaction to the messages in the Algemeen Dagblad (Agemeen Dagblad) is that parties have sat together and have said: are these the functional requirements that we all want to impose on that portal? The answer to that was: yes, these are functional requirements that we believe should be made. Then there was a discussion about how to implement it as soon as possible. Healthcare insurers, Social Insurance Bank, municipalities and Per Balance have said: it would not be a good idea to create a joint construction team so that we build that portal together, carefully and as quickly as possible. I'd love that. This would mean that all parties would work together, with all the thinking power and power of the health insurers who have experience in administrative processes, the existing knowledge, skills and data of the Social Insurance Bank and the demands of the users. Along with the established functional requirements, that would be great. I am not calling for a hurrah until we cross that bridge, but I think it is very important to have that discussion. We have agreed that in the next two or three weeks we will see if that is possible, or that will lead to the joint effort in that joint construction team and to the care that Mrs Bergkamp quite rightly asks for. I'll wait and see. I will, of course, inform the Chamber about this at the end of this month so that we can discuss it at the beginning of November. However, I am pleased with the agreement of the parties for the time being: would it not be a good idea for us to achieve speed and effectiveness in this way, while maintaining the necessary care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u234	Mrs Dik-Faber, you are the same as Mrs Leijten. Unless we take a whole round of interruptions right now. Mr Secretary of State, do you have many points to deal with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u235	I have one or two more general points and then I come to the specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u236	I suggest that we wait for these general points. Then I'll give room for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u237	I'll try to make it shorter. A number of members have asked questions about the grounds for refusal in the Wmo and the Youth Act. Do we have sufficient insight into whether or not municipalities rightly refuse pgbs? Many municipalities do not keep track of what has been requested and what has been refused. That's why we, together with Per Recht and the Association of Dutch Municipalities, have looked at the situation. Two conclusions emerge from this. It is indeed a limited sample, by the way, with municipalities from different regions and with different populations to get the best picture possible. You can see that municipalities do not use any arguments other than the grounds for refusal laid down in the law. There is, of course, a debate about whether municipalities apply them properly. In the direction of Mrs Keijzer, I would say that I see the limitations of that investigation. It is a limited sample of municipalities in which regional distribution and population have been looked at as closely as possible. We have no reason to believe that there are grounds for refusal other than those laid down in the law, but it is, of course, about its application. That is precisely the reason why Per Recht and the Association of Dutch Municipalities agreed to focus their efforts to ensure that the assessment by municipalities is carried out in a good and unambiguous way and that the support programme for the municipalities is developed and implemented in order to meet them. I think it is very good that we are working in this way to provide better support, as far as is necessary, by the municipalities. I now come to a number of specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u238	Those were your last general points. I'll start with Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u239	I want to ask one more question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u240	No, I'll start with Mrs. Leijten. Otherwise, we're gonna have to go back to it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u241	If you tell me not to interrupt, I'll sit down. The moment I want to interrupt, I do. You can order me to do so, but I would like to give the floor to Mrs Keijzer and I would like to speak if I have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u242	I love it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u243	It's nice that we're taking back control. I just heard the Secretary of State say that municipalities have no grounds for refusal other than the legal ones. Research shows exactly that they do. Even certain forms of care are excluded from the pgb. Or does the Secretary of State see this as completely different? Of course, we can still do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u244	Very formally, the law makes it possible for the municipality to assess: can a pgb be used here in a good way, can they manage it properly, can we arrange it in another way? Municipalities can and may judge this, and this also belongs to the municipalities. I do understand the feeling: aren't too many pgb's refused, isn't there some kind of discouragement? The concern of the Chamber and others is whether or not that is true. I see two things. We should not look so much at how that is regulated in the law. The municipalities are allowed to look at this and have to answer to the municipal council. I think it is important that we agree with Per Balance and the municipalities on how to do this better and more clearly. Can we offer further handouts there? In view of the future, I think it is right that we should ensure that this process, if it does not work out well, goes better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u245	In my opinion, the law provides that if anyone wants the care for which they are indicated to be taken through a pgb, they will receive it unless there are grounds for refusal. In practice, the Secretary of State says that it is also being considered whether it can be done in another way or whether forms of care can be excluded. You can't do that. That gives you that huge amount of refusals. Then we are approached by people who say: I want to organise my life in a certain way, so that cannot be refused. I want a secretary of state who at least says that's the law and you have to abide by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u246	That's what you can expect from me. That's what's gonna happen. If a municipality does not comply with the law, it will be called upon either by the city council or by me. But to be honest, that does not seem to me to be the point. The core is whether the municipality correctly and correctly applies the grounds for refusal laid down in the law. There's a discussion about that. One person will say that they have not been properly applied and the other one has. So the discussion is not so much about whether or not the municipality should refuse. The discussion is about whether this is done in practice in the right way. It is therefore a good thing that we have agreed with Per Balance and the VNG to consider how we can ensure that this point, the quality of implementation, as far as it is concerned, can be improved by working together with the budget holders on a hand-out. That seems to me to be the right way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u247	The study was carried out under ten municipalities. To be honest, I don't think that's so generous. I'll be careful when I say it. I mentioned recently in a general discussion that in a year and a half there are 30,000 fewer budget holders within the WMO and the Youth Act. That can't all be explained by a better conversation or... well, everything that the investigation shows. Doesn't the Secretary of State find this very unsatisfactory? Is he willing to do any additional research?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u248	I'm trying to be very nuanced. The fact that 30,000 pgbs are provided with care in a different way may be because this is better. But I don't want to say that the feeling doesn't remain that there was no other choice. Let us therefore be careful with conclusions. Municipalities can, together with the budget holders, assess whether things are going well and whether the way they are doing is right. I myself have seen in conversations at health offices that in small residential initiatives, this was also a question from Mrs Voortman who was financed with a pgb, the care office asked: can we not agree that we are just going to buy it? The budget holders said: please, because I have a huge hassle every time now; if you support and finance our housing initiative, it is even better. Then they are no longer pgbs, but care is continued in a different way, in a way that all parties find much better. So I'm not going to match it to the numbers. It is true that if budget holders continue to feel that it is not going well or that it is being done for improper reasons, it is good to focus on it and not so much to find out exactly how it is going in practice, but more how we can improve it. A lot of pgb's aren't there anymore or are being converted. In any case, let us see whether the implementation practice, that assessment, is going well. I think that's best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u249	The Christian Union attaches great importance to freedom of choice and self-direction of people who need care. That's why we think the pgb is so important. The Secretary of State writes in his letter following the investigation that "certain findings" give him reason to review policy in three of the ten municipalities. Three out of ten municipalities. If I extrapolate that, I don't know if I can do it at all, but well, I come to a considerable number of municipalities. Can the Secretary of State explain what's going on? This really raises questions for me. So I am thinking of the 30,000 people who are not getting pgb anymore. Perhaps I see something that is not there and I would like to be reassured, but I suspect there is more to it than the Secretary of State wrote in his letter. What else is he gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u250	If a municipality would say "we don't do pgbs," that would be contrary to the law. If that's the case, the city council, as well as me, will go to the municipality and ask them to explain what's going on. But, again, I do not think that the essence of the issue is or needs to be there. It is more a question of whether it is clear enough on what grounds you might come to a refusal or form other than a pgb, whether the consultations have been conducted properly, whether the grounds are actually unambiguous and what the experiences are in practice. It seems very important to me to combine the experiences of budget holders and the practice of applying municipalities. Hence the joint action with Per Balance and the VNG. That seems very important to me, because I also think: if there are a lot less pgbs, it is or for good reasons, because people say "if you do it that way, it is good" or it is for wrong reasons, and of course that is not good. We have to try to get the finger on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u251	How does the Secretary of State intend to do that? Indeed, it is only three out of ten municipalities, but something seems to have happened there. That seems to be a policy of discouragement. In the treatment of the Wmo-2015 we discussed this extensively: pgb and care in kind must be fully equivalent alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u252	Maybe I'll do it the same way we do it with the health insurers around the Zvw. There are a number of ways in which the law can assess this. That must be done carefully. How do we do that? Per Balance and the health insurance companies now consider whether the administrative arrangements in this area should be renewed on the basis of experience in practice. This process is in full swing; the Chamber will soon be informed about it, also in the light of the AMvB, if any. Such a route I see in front of me with Per Balance and VNG at this point. In this way, I think we are slowly but surely moving towards an implementation practice that is perceived as good and transparent for all parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u253	But how does the Secretary of State know that a hand-out is enough? I can also imagine that the law is not clear enough. Perhaps the law should be amended or an AMvB should be adopted in order to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u254	Above all, together with the parties, we need to look at the best way forward. During the discussion on the pgb in the Zvw, the parties said to each other: the current implementation practice gives reason to consider whether the administrative arrangements we had should be adapted. I am keeping a close eye on that, because it must lead to an improvement. If that is not the case, we must have regulations in place. The same applies here: I am fine with VNG and Per Recht looking at the implementation practice together with VWS. If that proves to be insufficient, we still have the instrument of regulation at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u255	The Secretary of State said a number of times what we can expect before 1 November. Is it now the case that the Chamber gets one scenario, or multiple?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u256	There is agreement between all parties to develop such a budget holder portal as soon as possible. That variant is now being worked out. A number of questions will come to light, such as who is going to manage it, what is going to happen, what about governance? We are going to develop this variant, in line with the line of the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u257	It's about the construction. My question is about management. The Secretary of State has promised that the whole governance story is part of what comes to the Chamber. It's fine that all kinds of parties are thinking about construction, but my question is about management. Do we get one or more variants for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u258	I haven't really thought about that. We want to put the content first: what are the functional requirements and what are the conditions. I had already promised that this plan would also highlight the governance side. Whether that's one or two variants, I can't figure it out yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u259	So at least we get a story about governance. In the letter before 1 November we get clarity about whether it is one or two scenarios when it comes to management and governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u260	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u261	The Secretary of State indicated that 1 January 2018 was his target date. I think that's very positive. But that means that an invitation to tender is not included. Can I conclude from this that the Secretary of State does not consider a tender to be necessary, since he has found another construction, which makes the date of 1 January 2018 clear for him? It would be nice if the Secretary of State could be transparent about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u262	I come to that point in response to a number of questions put by Mrs Keijzer, but basically what she says is correct. If we manage to create a joint construction team with parties, we could get that speed. Then there would be no need to tender, because we were, as it were, contracting. If this is not possible for any reason, we must contract. That has consequences for the timetable. Moreover, I cannot fully see these consequences, but there are consequences. That is why I said: let us unite the forces and let us not deal with the questions that are going on later, precisely in view of the ambition to quickly achieve something with that portal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u263	Mr Potters and then Mrs Leijten. Then we're gonna do the specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u264	In view of this debate, the temptation is very great to dive right back into technology. I can also tell by my colleagues. In my opinion, Mr Van der Staaij made it very clear in his first speech: it is not so much a question of determining exactly how to proceed as a Chamber. We simply want there to be a scenario on 1 November on which we as a Chamber can make a full choice and with which we can say to the pgb-holders, to these vulnerable people, that we know what the future is like with that plan. There is a transitional period, but that really means that we in the Chamber can draw a line below that point. I don't want us shooting into technology every time. I just want the Secretary of State to promise that on 1 November there will be a plan on which the Chamber can take a full decision, so that we know what the future of the pgb will be. Can the Secretary of State make that commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u265	I kind of feel like I have to do that for the third time now, but the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u266	I have heard that the Secretary of State is in favour of a balance between user-friendliness and controls. According to the Secretary of State, is a good balance to be struck on 65 pages for a personal budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u267	I myself asked for the forms again and checked whether they were very complicated and difficult. Having a budget plan and a healthcare agreement with five different healthcare providers and the question of whether the SVB wants to do the employer's tasks are all things for which data needs to be filled out. Could it be much simpler? I hope so, especially if we go to the digital side. I am very willing to see if it can be simpler now, but a number of things cannot be avoided, because you just need to know a few things before you can declare and pay out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u268	That is a long answer to say: yes, I think it is in balance. That scares me. Let me put it this way. A mother with a 16-year-old multi-disabled son, who has had a pgb for years, has to deliver 65 pages through the new system of the Secretary of State. And if anything changes in the situation, another 65 pages have to be provided. They need to be checked and stamped. Does the Secretary of State think this is balanced? Is that a desired outcome of his policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u269	No, of course not. Let us be honest: I said once again that bureaucracy is a thorn in my eye. We are therefore looking at where we can improve the current system and make it more user-friendly, and that is why we need to look beyond the domains, bearing in mind that we can make the real move with the future scenarios in which we are going to achieve this with the budget holder portal. I think we can make the big deal out of that. This does not relieve us of the sacred duty to consider whether the current system can be simpler and simpler, especially for those budget holders who have to fill in the same ten times each time. Of course, that's what makes you crazy. I was looking for a more powerful term, but that's not who I am. Of course, that is how it is done, because it cannot be that someone who has a pgb for her child who has had a big problem for 16 years already has a hard enough problem. That's hard enough to fill in that data every time and therefore gets the feeling of "why am I actually doing this?" We all think so, and I think so, with a great deal of heart. This also gives me the task of ensuring that we apply as many simplifications as possible in the current system and hopefully look into the new system to see if it can be done in a more customer-friendly way and much more digitally. This is really a call from me: let us not create a contradiction on this point. That balance will always have to be there. If you grant large budgets of €70,000, €80,000 or sometimes €150,000, it makes sense that there are controls, but they should never lead to people who are in good faith and who have incredible problems with their child having to fill something out ten times. That would drive me crazy myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u270	I even used the word "demeaning." I think that's it. The Secretary of State said in his letter and in his previous reply that he actually thinks that this situation of form madness will only be brought to an end in the new system. Now he says: I do not want this; we have an expensive duty to solve this. Can I agree today with the Secretary of State that he should write a clear letter before the budgetary procedure in the Chamber, preferably as short as possible, indicating which forms could disappear? I cannot imagine that, apart from the budget holder, who has to fill this out, the care offices and the municipalities are waiting for that huge slip of paper, which costs a lot of money, which leads to mistrust and humiliation and which really does not help anyone. Is the Secretary of State prepared to come forward with a plan of action for the budgetary treatment? Or is he willing to delete or delete papers so that this will just end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u271	The short answer is yes. Let me explain this to you, as the Chamber of mine is used to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u272	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u273	But he's not gonna nuance it, is he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u274	This Secretary of State remains a nuanced man, even though others think that nuance is not necessary. We need to look at all these forms. I'll send them all to the Chamber, too, so everyone can see what's actually happening. I think it's okay to take that trade-off with you. In fact, people understand that this mother also writes that checks are necessary to ensure that payments are lawful and that a number of things need to be completed. Everyone thinks so. Let's keep that balance. Let us not be too easy by saying: there are far too many forms, delete those forms and then we can do it again. What can be deleted, we're also going to delete. The Chamber has received another letter from me, in which I so to speak open the attack on administrative burdens and bureaucracy. In that letter I write: can we not look across the board at all the rules that can be deleted? I am very willing to do so specifically on this point. I kind of manage Mrs Leijten's expectations, because I think that when she sees what happens, she will say to some of those things: yes, I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u275	I am satisfied with the brief reply from the Secretary of State, namely that he says: yes, I promise to come up with a clear, brief note for the budget, which does not contain too many nuances but simply indicates which form can be removed or which form does not need to be filled out every time. That's the answer I'm embracing. Then we can at least tell all those budget holders that there is light at the end of the tunnel as to the form madness and the humiliation of filling out over and over that you need care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u276	I would like to share that last point with Mrs Leijten. I come to the specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u277	As long as they haven't already been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u278	As long as they haven't already been answered. I have the feeling that I have already raised a number of issues with regard to Mrs Agema's questions. I drew her attention to the fact that it is not the case that there are no controls now and they will be. We are now also subject to extensive checks, particularly prior checks and not ex post checks. I think the questions on that point have been answered. I come to Mr Potters' questions. I think I have answered his question as to whether I have the ambition to come up with the plan on 1 November. The answer to that is yes. We also talked about the large-scale outage. Mr Potters does not want it, and I do not want it. I have also indicated what we are doing to prevent it, including keeping track of it and the intervention when we think it is not going well. I think that's enough. I come to a specific question from Mr Potters on abuse and fraudulent healthcare providers: how will that work? We can do that. I made arrangements about that with the health offices. By letter of 7 December, I informed the Chamber that budget holders who are in good faith and who are dealing with a fraudulent healthcare provider will not be confronted with a claim and that the healthcare offices will address that healthcare provider through a document of assignment. By the way, I am also working to make it possible for healthcare agencies to contact the healthcare provider directly and to legally anchor it, so that a document of assignment is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u279	That last one's good to hear. We all know last week's example of Woonfoyers. In my contribution, I have indicated how horrible it is that people with a pgb are being abused by a health care provider who wants to profit from it himself. That kind of fraud needs to be dealt with hard. If we don't, the pgb will be under discussion. Let it be clear: the VVD thinks this is an extremely important instrument. The point of the act of assignment is clear. But what kind of legislation will come to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u280	That is the legislation on the basis of which the healthcare office can directly address the healthcare provider. Now it has to be through the budget holder, because it is responsible. We can overcome that by the act of assignment. But actually, I'd like to make it possible for the health care firm to contact the health care provider directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u281	That's very nice. We have already tabled a motion on this subject on 13 October 2015, together with colleagues Bergkamp and Van Gerven. I would very much like to know when this legislation can be dealt with in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u282	I will try to indicate that in the second term. And, more precisely, what was requested in that motion, namely to ensure that the budget holder is no longer addressed, but that the healthcare provider is addressed, is settled. I informed the Chamber of this in the letter of 7 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u283	So I get an answer to my last question in the second term, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u284	Is that early enough for your consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u285	Well, if the Secretary of State can answer this question by now, that would be very nice. If he comes back to it later, I'm fine with it. I'd like to know when we can expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u286	I'll report it in second term. Mrs Bergkamp indicated that there is a lot in the newspapers about the portal. She said, "What's going on, is there panic, is there pressure?" Yeah, there's pressure on it. I also think it is very important to keep the necessary pressure on it. However, I have also said that I count my blessings at the moment. If all parties now say that they are going to build the portal together, so that it can be done quickly and carefully, then that is really good. It's still a little bit to be seen. If it is different, I will, of course, inform the Chamber about this in the plan that will come at the end of October. This also answers the question: is a new system being built or is it coming from Per Balance? I hope: of all parties together, of 'a common construction team'. Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Potters asked if the plan would come on 1 November. And what exactly does it say? The programme of requirements for the portal. What are the estimated costs of this? What does that mean for the investments still envisaged by the SVB and are therefore effective? What's the timeline? What about the clients and ownership, the governance side? My intention is therefore to honour that commitment to the Chamber and to explain it in this way in that plan. I think I have sufficiently discussed the question of controls. There was a question about the lead time of eight months. I think that we share the view that these lead times should be as short as possible. But here too, you see it continues to balance a little bit.It also takes time to come to the guarantees we have agreed with each other. Healthcare insurers The Netherlands and Per Recht have initiated a procedure to quickly find solutions for budget holders who could get into trouble as a result of too long a period of time. This procedure is beginning to bear fruit. Very carefully, I say that the number of problems relating to long lead times does indeed seem to decrease. But together with the care offices and Per Balance I also inventory how further accelerations can be applied in that process. Some health offices have drawn up a number of improvement plans in this respect. We're all freaked out by that eight-month lead time. That is an exceptional situation. Generally speaking, these lead times are decreasing, especially due to the efforts of the health offices and Per Balance. I believe that I have answered the questions about governance and the different parties. In my view, the specific question has been asked as to whether more and more standard models are being used. We have wondered in previous debates whether it is not possible to achieve further standardisation. The Social Insurance Bank is already working with standard models on the website, so they are also available to budget holders. Many budget holders also make use of this. Mrs Bergkamp actually asked if you could make that mandatory. That is indeed being worked on. We need to look again at what you can make mandatory and what we design as a service for the budget holders in a different way. So we are dealing with this standardisation battle. So there are already standard models available on the website. It has been asked why the multi-care scheme should be applied for over and over again. More care can be granted for a period longer than one year, especially when it comes to disease images, just to put it simply, which do not change anymore. With the Dutch Healthcare Authority, Zorginstituut Nederland and Per Recht I am in consultation to further simplify this multi-care procedure for home living clients. There are two types of situations: on the one hand you can get extra costs. Then other solutions can easily be provided. On the other hand, there are clients for whom this is not enough and for whom it should come from the multi-care scheme. Moreover, this scheme is a bit intended for the exceptions, because more than 95% of clients fit into the care-gravity problem without any surcharges or additional care. You can see that this often involves changing needs for care over time. It's hard to establish that. In December, I expect an opinion from Zorginstituut Nederland and the Dutch Healthcare Authority on how to shape more care and a custom profile within the Long-Term Care Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u287	I understand there will be an opinion at the end of the year. That's a little wider. It is about the customized profile and more care. But I find it very painful and annoying for parents who have a multi-care question that they have to tell the same story every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u288	Your position is for the second term. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u289	My question to the Secretary of State is why he's waiting for advice. Why doesn't he just take care of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u290	If the disease does not change, it can be granted for more than a year. The discussion often arises when the disease is changing and you need a different level of care over time and it is difficult to say clearly: this is the more care that can be applied on a multiannual basis. We'll see where we can and where we can't. I do need that advice to look more broadly, but here solutions are conceivable. However, with varying care images it is often not possible. That's kind of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u291	I have the impression the Secretary of State is finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u292	As far as the contribution of D66 is concerned, yes. I come to Mrs Keijzer's points. I believe that we have already had a number of issues, in particular the question of the willingness to delete rules where possible. I have just made a commitment in this respect. I have also raised the question of which controls are being triggered or not. I think we've had enough discussions on that. I would just like to clarify the issue of the tendering procedure. That's actually a simple point. The law states that the Social Insurance Bank carries out the pgbs. If you want to change that, you will indeed have to change the law. To be honest, I think this is a bit of a problem for later, if we want it to be implemented in a different way. Indeed, if I have to wait until the legislative amendment is implemented with the start of the construction of a portal, even if it can be done as soon as Mrs Keijzer says, then there is a strange delay. And all the efforts are aimed at building the portal together very quickly. So if it succeeds in building that together, with the commitment and the strength that all parties have and develop, that is my preferred option. Why? Because that's how you can speed things up. You can tender instead of contracting and therefore make speed in the realization. If it doesn't work, it won't work, but I think it's an interesting opportunity to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u293	Mrs Keijzer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u294	I was just waiting to see if this was the whole answer to my question as to whether the Secretary of State was married to the Social Insurance Bank. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u295	No, we didn't marry anyone. It must be carried out by the party that can do it best. I now notice that all parties say to each other: that portal is a joint responsibility that we all have to share, now and in the future, so let's also see if we can build it together. Again, I appreciate that very much. I think it is a good commitment, also from healthcare insurers Netherlands who want to devote their powers to this. I think that's very good. Then we can look at how management should be managed. Well, we still have a little time for that. We now need to focus on realising the portal as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u296	That's just too easy. I heard the Secretary of State just now in an interrupting debate about 'all actors, including the knowledge and skills of the Social Insurance Bank'. Well, we know what that's like by now. I am therefore particularly interested in a variant where management is not in the Social Insurance Bank. I hear the Secretary of State say here: yes, but we are going to talk about building now, and about management later. No. Now there is talk with all parties. I hear, not from the Secretary of State but in the so-called walkways, that it is clear that it has to be with the Social Insurance Bank, whatever happens, because legislation changes, because tender... I just want to hear from this Secretary of State to the point whether or not that is the case. And if that is the case, does he agree with me that this amendment of the law is so regulated and that there should be no obligation to tender? Only then will we really be able to look freely at a good future of the personal budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u297	If you now want to contract to a party other than the Social Insurance Bank, a legislative amendment is necessary. The law states that the Social Insurance Bank carries it out. We are now investigating the possibility of ensuring, under the direction of the Social Insurance Bank, that all parties work together on the portal in a building team. If that works, and we don't need a tender, we can do it. Then we'll move on. Then we can see on our own merits how this can best be done, and then we are married to no one. But I now choose speed, because I think we all want to realize the portal as soon as possible, with due care. I always look at Mrs Bergkamp and the reports that the chairman has written about it in a different capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u298	I hear the Secretary of State say, under the direction of the Social Insurance Bank. I can't believe my ears. Hasn't he proven for the past two years that he's not very good at that? I have already asked Bureau of Legislation how we can change the law. Then that's off the table. Then, together with Per Recht and the healthcare offices, we can look at a new portal, in which there is no complicating factor and in which we can look at things without the Social Insurance Bank? Because you can say whatever you want from health insurance companies, but they don't have the Social Insurance Bank's payment problems. So at that point, they have a better record. I therefore ask the Secretary of State once again whether he believes that this can and should be done in a different way. Get away from that Social Insurance Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u299	The question is clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u300	Mrs Keijzer has obviously already chosen, because she thinks that the health insurance companies should do it. To be honest, I agree with Mrs Voortman's once again nuanced remark, even though I hope that I do not wrong her. She suggested that we first take a good look at what wisdom is. On the one hand, you cannot say that it should be the Social Insurance Bank, because it depends on how we deal with the governance in that portal. But on the other hand, you cannot say at this stage that it should be with the health insurance companies, because that would be best. I don't think that's a good idea. The best thing is to build that portal together now. That's what everyone wants. There are a number of questions about how to manage that portal. We are not married to anyone either. I hope Mrs Keijzer does not want us to be able to make a good balance between ourselves. If this is the portal and if this is the collaboration that we have to organise with both municipalities and health offices, and we also have to deal with the employers' tasks that the Social Insurance Bank is now carrying out, I think the joint commitment to take a step forward now is more important than making choices that are partly dependent on legislative changes and that only lead to delays.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u301	A final question from Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u302	The way the Secretary of State does it again is beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u303	Well, at least I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u304	It's really great. He talks throughout the debate about the way in which an alternative is being worked with the Social Insurance Bank. I urge you to examine the possibility of doing it without the Social Insurance Bank. I don't know if this Secretary of State doesn't want to hear me or if he can't hear me. I shall therefore put forward a motion to ensure that an option is considered which does not involve the Social Insurance Bank, in accordance with the plan presented by Per Recht and the health offices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u305	In her approach, Mrs Keijzer makes no distinction between construction and management. With regard to construction, let us now ensure that it is possible for all parties to commit themselves to a joint construction team in order to achieve that portal that is useful to everyone, because each party must be connected to it and which could also lead to speed, as soon as possible. It'd be nice if you could. However, the management question is of a different order. That question must be open. It should also be possible to see if it can be managed by others. We can come back to that later, but that question must not prevent us from taking a quick step forward to build together. I think it would be wise not to make that choice now, because it could prevent speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u306	It's good to hear that at least the Secretary of State didn't marry anyone on this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u307	I think that is also true of Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u308	Sure, but we have said that a long time ago. It's not about who's doing it, but it's about doing it right. It doesn't necessarily have to be the SVB. In my view, the legislation can simply take place in parallel. I think the Chamber can really slap it. The desire to do so very quickly lives Chamber-wide, so the bottleneck will not be there. However, I hear the Secretary of State making a distinction between management and construction. I understand some of that technical distinction, but I do not want to do so, and I continue to stress that on 1 November we still cannot make a full choice as to the role of the SVB now and in the future. It can't be that on November 1st there might be a portal, while at the same time we only have half a plan because we don't really know how to manage that portal. I want a full and complete plan on the basis of which the Chamber will be able to make a decision this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u309	Maybe fourth time: yes, there will be a plan that will enable us to decide together what the future is of the pgb's, including the construction of the portal and the governance that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u310	Does that also apply to management?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u311	Yes, that also applies to the choices we make with regard to management.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u312	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u313	The Secretary of State just referred to my comment about the health insurance companies and whether their management would be in good hands. Of course, I am not saying that management at SVB would by definition be in good hands. I am concerned that we do not immediately say that the SVB and the health insurance companies are the only two options. I believe that there are other alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u314	I could have said it the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u315	I had the impression you were finishing up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u316	That's right, Mr. Chairman. So much for the tender. Mrs Voortman made a number of comments on small-scale housing initiatives. She wondered whether they would be too limited by too short contracts. I have already said in general terms that I share the importance of housing initiatives. Municipalities also have that space according to the new Wmo. I am very willing to look at how this can be further promoted with Per Balance and the VNG on this issue too. I would also like to involve that in the support programme. I can see, moreover, that municipalities are very interested in this. I have just said that some small-scale housing initiatives have come about with pgbs. They may need to get their rightful place in the Wmo and the Long-Term Care Act. This way it can be organized in a much more convenient way. I would very much welcome that. I am very willing to discuss this further with the VNG. I have already made a number of comments about the accelerations and simplicity of solutions from one domain to another. Mrs Voortman also asked whether a standard form could be made and/or made compulsory at the Social Insurance Bank. That standard form is indeed there. Budget holders can make use of that. I come to the specific question of the Christian Union how to prevent queues. We have already talked about how we can prevent major outages. We do this by informing and supporting budget holders both in writing and orally. We do this by keeping the emergency channel, which is hardly being used anymore, intact. We're gonna keep the finger on the wrist to make sure everything's going okay. If necessary, we can intervene. The Social Insurance Bank has the capacity to ensure both telephone and manpower that every budget holder gets the help he wants. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked me to do everything I can to get the portal started as of 2018. That is indeed the ambition. This is not only about the portal, but also about the plugs needed for municipalities and healthcare offices to connect to it. Otherwise, we'll have a portal that can't be used. So that's really part of it. That is why it must also be part of the overall plan. I think we have talked enough about the studies in the municipalities. Mrs Dik-Faber also raised a specific question on dispute resolution. The Long-Term Care Act has the following possibilities. One: filing a complaint with the health care office. Two: Objection to the decision of the healthcare office. Three: appeal to the court. Mrs Dik-Faber said about that last possibility that it is a sin when it has to come to this. In addition, there is independent customer support. I understand Mrs Dik-Faber's comments. If someone's worried about something, they can hesitate if it's hard enough to go to court and wonder if it can't be simpler. I would like to promise that I will look into whether we can take a few more steps with regard to dispute resolution, particularly in the area of independent customer support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u317	I have two questions. Will customer support be further strengthened, or will there be independent dispute resolution, as in the position of the SKGZ? And when does the Secretary of State intend to inform the Chamber about this? I've been talking to the Secretary of State about this for a while, inside and outside debates. I really want it to be taken care of, because it really kills people. An Ombudsman or dispute resolution can be very helpful in keeping people out of legal procedures and ensuring that they receive the care they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u318	If I look in front of myself and try to interpret what is meant, I hope we could deliver that in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u319	Is that for budgetary treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u320	I can't promise you that. There's still a few things to figure out, but I'm really gonna do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u321	Is this about strengthening the position of customer support, or is there going to be an ombud function and dispute resolution à la SKGZ? I really attach to the latter. Client support is already there, but it needs a tooth. I'd also like to table a motion and hold it, so that's how we're gonna settle it and get the Secretary of State to work. Something just needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u322	That might be a good shape. I hesitate for a moment because in a public-law context dispute resolution works differently than in the case of insurers, who have taken care of a number of matters themselves. So I really want to take a look at that. I make a commitment that I want to see which additions are needed. That could be client support, but it could also be the other side. We'll see what's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u323	I would like to say in general terms that first-term announcements of motions and then saying that they are still being held makes the instrument very blunt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u324	I think I answered Mrs Dik-Faber's questions about the portal and 1-1-2018 in the general debate. I now turn to Mrs Volp's questions. She asked the specific question what the experience is with calling people. In weeks 35 to 38 the SVB has called budget holders. That happened 11,000 times in total. The SVB indicates that budget holders generally respond positively to the targeted feedback and say: this is not right and that is true. Sometimes the Social Insurance Bank has to call several times because the budget holder does not answer or is not at home. We are going to see whether budget holders can be achieved even better during the start-up period, for example by calling in the evenings and weekends. We also want to see to what extent the provider can be engaged when we feel that it is not working. Shouldn't the care office or the municipality take further action? I don't know if that's going to work, because that's a bit labour-intensive, but I'm trying to indicate that we're monitoring what's coming out and seeing if we can further support the budget holder. Is there sufficient capacity available at the Social Insurance Bank? The answer to that is yes. Later, too. Mrs Volp also asked if we would get the necessary information about the portal and the plan to be able to make a decision. Yes, that's my intention. I think we've already talked about this in detail. We have also discussed the transition between domains. I am willing to investigate this with healthcare insurers Netherlands and Per Balance. The bureaucracy associated with the transition between domains will and must be reduced. The new portal will be able to contribute to this, but that does not mean that we must do everything we can to see whether we can reduce administrative burdens in the current situation. I have already promised to inform the Committee on Budgets about the plans on that point. I come to Mrs Leijten's specific questions. As I have already informed the Chamber, there is currently a European call for tenders to implement the compensation scheme. I hope to inform the Chamber in October whether a suitable performer has come out of it. I can't say exactly yet. Budget is reserved in 2016, so I hope it can also start this year. If that should not be the case, it does not mean that this budget is no longer available afterwards. I believe that I have already tried to answer Mrs Leijten's questions regarding '2018-2020' in this debate. The same applies to the question of whether there are too many or too few forms. I have spoken about this balance and about the signal that budget holders could not declare. In abundance, I would like to point out the following. In view of the current figures and the rate of payout, we can at least see that the vast majority of this has been sorted out. This makes it possible to take the step with regard to the checks on the declarations. Mr. Chairman. This was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u325	There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u326	I had asked about the illegality of these 800,000 claims, as well as the payment rate. Do we have to assume that the payment rate including the 800,000 is unlawful, so that 61%, or exclusive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u327	I'm not sure you can relate that, because 61% is an analysis. Those claims were paid for. This analysis went as follows: if all controls were on in that way, what would be the possible failure? These are declarations that are rightly or wrongly made. So you can't calculate that figure like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u328	We would be informed about the state of play every month. That's not gonna happen. Each time it is said that 95% to 96% of the properly submitted declarations are paid on time, i.e. within 10 days. Now we have the discussion that 61% would be unlawful if all the controls were on. Does that affect each other? It's kind of relevant to know this. I imagine the Secretary of State doesn't have the answer right now. Agreed, but I'm assuming he can let us know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u329	It could affect each other. We do not know that yet, because no declarations are yet being rejected for that reason. We now announce that, after a rehab period, we can say that we will not pay. Of course, we are all going to prevent this from happening. Mrs Leijten is right that we should also monitor the rate of declaration, because it is an indicator whether it is going well or not. Of course, we don't know how many declarations there will be. Firstly, all efforts are made to prevent this. Secondly, the speed of payment must indeed remain in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u330	This sounds good. However, I would like to know whether the claim that 95% to 96% of correctly submitted declarations are paid within 10 days, including or excluding 61%. I imagine the Secretary of State is not ready for the answer now, but I assume he will send it to us as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u331	Still, exactly: 61% is a sample. If you didn't pay those claims, what does that mean? If you would not pay it, the budget holder will submit a new declaration that will then have to be paid at the same payment rate. Theoretically, this could lead to more declarations being made, which could affect the payment rate. However, we cannot say a sensible word about this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u332	We've been since May, when there's a deadline...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u333	Please don't repeat these things. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u334	Is that payment rate, that claim of 95 to 96%, exclusive or including those 800,000 unlawful claims, yes or no? I imagine that the Secretary of State cannot give that answer now, because it is a technical question, but please let us know as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u335	I am trying to answer your question as well as possible: as far as declarations are concerned. That's because they've been paid. So that payment rate includes the declarations to which you refer, because it is not about unpaid declarations. They're paid declarations. It is therefore included in my mind. If it's different, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u336	So included.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u337	I think I can say it's inclusive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u338	It's inclusive. That brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the cabinet. It was my firm intention to allow the second time for lunch to take place, but that was not possible. I set the speaking time in second place at one third of the first time. We will therefore have the second time after lunch.
