ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u2	I am also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Where I say CDA in the future, I mean CDA and VVD. Mr. Chairman. It has some feet in the earth, the constitutional anchoring of the BES islands and the regulation of the right to vote of the residents of the BES as regards the First Chamber. With regard to both groups on behalf of which I am speaking, it soon comes to a good settlement on both subjects after 10-10-10. First, I'll deal with the constitutional arrangement. Both groups agree with the chosen wording, which leaves open the final structure of the BES islands but provides a constitutional basis for the current public bodies. There is still a path to go for real achievement. After all, we are talking about the first reading of the constitutional revision. As far as both groups are concerned, when the novelle becomes the line, there is no barrier to a proper conclusion. After the December 2015 referendum, did the Bonaire island government send a further response to the proposal? I now turn to the right to vote for the BES. For both groups I am speaking on behalf of, it has always been a firm principle that non-Dutch citizens in the BES islands should have both the right to vote and the right to stand as a candidate for the island councils. The starting point was always that only the Dutch should have an influence on the election of the members of the Upper House. The BES islands do not have a provincial classification and it is not obvious that it will only be created for the purposes of the elections. That is why for both groups the establishment of a separate electoral college for the primary elections has always been the only possible way forward. Only by unravelling these elections, the First Chamber and the Island Council elections, can these two principles be upheld. This means that both groups agree on this point with the novelle on the constitutional amendment 33131. It also means that the two groups will vote against legislative proposal 33900, which concerns the amendment of the Tickets Act, which is still pending before the First Chamber and is part of today's debate. The latter, of course, unless the Minister withdraws the last bill. Can the Government confirm its commitment to enter into consultation with the relevant island authorities when drawing up the right to vote? My group has two other questions about voting rights. At the time of the amendment of the Kieswet, the collective bill, classified under Parliamentary Document 33268 and published in the Official Journal on 12 July 2013, was promised by the Minister that the provisions relating to the right to vote of non-Dutch citizens on the BES islands would not enter into force until a provision was made for the Constitution. Does my group agree that this is Article Ya 14 Election Act for the right to vote and Article 14 WolBES for the right to stand as a candidate? Is it the case that, when the constitutional provisions now proposed and the legislative proposal on voting rights come into force, the said articles automatically enter into force, or is there still a need for a separate decision? Finally, a question. Why does the government always use anglicism "Caribic" instead of Dutch "Caribic"? My group and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are happy to work constructively to ensure that the Dutch voters in the BES Islands can make their voice heard in the 2019 First Chamber elections. We look forward to answering these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing three legislative proposals today, which shows the complex history of this debate. In addition to the formal main theme of the first reading of a proposal for a Constitutional commitment to the constitutional position of Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba, there is a novella at the request of this Chamber which regulates the right to vote for the First Chamber in a correct manner. In addition, there is a sensual bill that if the cracked doll remains dead on the ground when the butterfly of the Caribbean electoral college will have wings. Hopefully the Minister will withdraw that proposal now. If not, the Chamber will clean it up for him today. My group is pleased that we can finally conclude this today. Just before Christmas 2011, the government submitted the proposal to the House of Representatives. In the opinion of the Council of State, we can already read exactly the points of pain that have determined the debate between the First Chamber and this Minister from the end of 2012. The Chamber was Mr Van Bijsterveld, who recalled this quite clearly from the beginning. She wanted to maintain the political principles that all established residents should be able to have influence on the first layer of government and that only Dutch citizens should have the right to vote in the First Chamber. The Minister felt that all this was far too much of a basic thing for a small group of people. It took some effort to get an opposing minister to do so, but three years later, there was finally a novelle that deals with matters in the right way. That could have been quicker and more flexible, we think, but we will get there. At this point, in theory, we could take the matter off quickly. However, it is good to pay attention to it because of the great fundamental importance for the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands, whether or not with an extra "a." On the one hand, it is important for the islands, with their strong regional cohesion, that people who have lived there for a long time also have a say in local government and can participate in it. On the other hand, it is essential for the connection with the European Netherlands to fully respect the right to vote of Dutch citizens; that is just part of being and wanting to be one country together. It was therefore a matter of honour for this Chamber to regulate the right to vote, even though it is a little more complicated than this pragmatic minister would like. That discussion has been concluded and my group thanks the Minister for the final legislative proposal plus the novelle. However, this has not made plenary debate unnecessary, because the legislative proposal is not only about the right to vote, but also, or even first of all, about the inclusion in the Constitution of the political position of Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba. That is very important. It also raises two questions. The first question concerns the relationship between the currently chosen form of the constitutional change and the desired state-law final model. The Council of State stated in its opinion of November 2011: "Five years after the transition date, the elaboration of the new political structure will be evaluated. Then it will also be decided what the final state-law model will be. In 2008, the government put forward two final models: the islands remain distinct public bodies or they are still regarded as municipalities, albeit as special municipalities, because not all legal requirements for municipalities are expected to apply in the future. Whether the islands will remain specific public bodies will depend, inter alia, on the extent to which derogations are necessary." Those five years have now passed and the issue of homework in the policy debate on evaluation has been raised. There have been several evaluations which have examined the development of this new structure, but not the structure as such. Nor is it determined what the state-law final model will be. In the reply of 19 February 2013, the Government further argues in detail that the proposed constitutional amendment does not prejudge in any way the choice of a final model. To the question of the members of D66 whether the government still sees the municipality's option as a final model as viable option, the government responds in the affirmative. It then refers to the evaluation over and over again. In response to a question from the Christian Union, I have another quote: "the government sees this bill as a good incorporation into existing structures, but whether it is also a sustainable integration depends on whether the model of a public body, within the meaning of Article 132a, or the model of municipalities, is chosen after the evaluation." In the meantime, we are behind the evaluations and we note that the government does not want to discuss the political structures at all, but rather wants to talk about the impact. It is of direct interest to the people of the islands. My group can sympathise with that, although I have one comment to make on that point in a moment. However, it is unsatisfactory that an evaluation is being made for years, which will result in a final model to be chosen for the political position of the three islands, and that this specific evaluation is then missing, there is no discussion about it and the desired final model is simply not established. I do not escape asking the government if it still intends to evaluate the structure as such, to open the discussion about the desired final model and to reach a conclusion on this point. If she is prepared to do so, we would like to hear what it will look like and what time it can be achieved. If it is not prepared to do so, has it not chosen de facto the model of a public body as the desired final model? That will then be the model until one day another government decides to proceed with evaluation, discussion and possible adaptation. For the sake of clarity, my group does not object to that final model, but rather to its tacit commitment, while years of evaluation and discussion were promised. Why doesn't the government choose the royal path of fulfilling a promise and a transparent process instead of turning us into a somewhat devious decision? The second question arises not only from the current legislative proposal, but also from our recent policy debate and the motion on the social minimum adopted almost unanimously. I cannot go around it entirely, given that, according to a recent letter, the Minister did not want to understand that motion. I am not so much concerned with the content at the moment, because we are certainly going to talk about it. In the light of this discussion, how should we understand Article 132a (3)? That Article includes the differentiation provision which has been laid down in Article 1 (2) of the Staff Regulations so far. I quote: rules can be laid down for these public bodies and other specific measures are taken in view of particular circumstances which make these public bodies substantially different from the European part of the Netherlands. It is a little more general than the differentiation clause in the Statute, but the core is the same. The question that arises then is whether there is an essential distinction between the European Netherlands and the Caribbean Netherlands, so that the government can justify the fact that it defines a completely different social minimum for the Caribbean Netherlands, which is also determined in such a way that no human being can live properly from it. It is not surprising that the Chamber has so firmly expressed its views on this issue, as it has in the debate on the electoral college. In both cases, it is a question of whether, taking into account all the differences that exist, we can guarantee that all citizens in our country have the same rights. I do not need to remind the Minister that this is also at the heart of Article 1 of the Constitution. If the government ignores the argument on such an important issue as basic livelihoods and such a clear statement by the Chamber and continues to go its own way with a completely different definition of the social minimum, we would like to hear what the Minister means by the differentiation clause in view of today's legal treatment. Is it a free pass to treat the citizens of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba differently from the citizens of Ameland or Amsterdam? We need a more robust explanation from the Minister and, as I said, we will certainly come back to the content at another time. We look forward to the Minister's answers. We hope that he will remove the meaningless legislative proposal before we have to vote on it and that he will be able to give constructive answers to our questions about the final model and the differentiation clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. For a number of years we have been waiting for the legislative proposals that are now before us. I have, of course, looked back in reports of various consultations and letters and also encountered the names of my predecessors. That's kind of crazy, if you realize that at the time a wish was expressed that can be implemented but in a way. The question was: how do you give the Dutch on Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba, the BES islands, the opportunity to decide on the composition of the First Chamber? Since they became a public body on 10 October 2010, this is justified. Our rule is that you do not give non-Dutch influence to national parliaments. It is very good when they participate, think along and also vote for the administrative layer that is about the immediate living environment, the city council, but national policy influence is reserved for those of Dutch nationality. So voting on the Provincial States is not possible, because those elected members of the States choose this Chamber again. Of course, non-Dutch residents also live on the BES islands; they should also be allowed to vote for the administrative layer that concerns their immediate surroundings: the island council. So you can't put the vote for the First Chamber one-on-one on this island council. This rule was initially overlooked or considered less important, but here the Supreme Court applied. Our predecessors pointed out that with the original proposal residents of non-Dutch origin could either not vote on the island council or have an influence on the composition of our national parliament. Neither was embraced, after which the Minister designed a novelle containing the only possible solution in the opinion of the SP. This solution is to create different ballots: forms for non-Dutch citizens, who vote on the island council and forms with added value, who continue to vote for a final vote in the Upper Chamber. The SP thinks it is a good idea to take this decision now. Since it is a constitutional amendment, a second reading will be held by a newly elected Second Chamber and First Chamber. So it is high time to say yes to it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that my group is pleased to welcome this minister back to the Chamber. The reason for this happiness lies in his restored health, not necessarily in his political views or actions, although I hasten to say that the Minister and we seem to agree quite well today. Constitutional reforms always take a long time in our country, if they can be successfully completed. The procedural rule requiring two readings, the second of which takes place after the Second Chamber has been dissolved and re-established by elections, and the demand for a two-thirds majority in both Chambers at second reading are all too often stumbling blocks. The draft Constitutional Reform that we are discussing today will, I dare say, make a bet on it, even at second reading after 15 March next year. I'd almost say that's an exception to the rule. However, it was necessary for the First Chamber, in a cross-party and collective assertiveness, both the other side and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, to make it clear that a fundamental change was necessary, did not want this constitutional revision to be killed at first reading. It didn't go without a fight. The Minister has long defended his original proposal and, may I say, not without some intransigence. All of us, both the Minister and the First Chamber, remember several oral and written consultations on this matter. It has taken some time for him to bow his head, and I appreciate that, because a proposal for a constitutional change is not just being tabled and must therefore be defended stubbornly. An important argument put forward by the Minister in this constitutional screening party was that he had to respect the views of the House of Representatives and could not file against that Chamber in a novelle. I understood that; the minister would come between the hammer and anvil of parliament. Fortunately, we ourselves managed to ensure that full-time parliamentarians in the Lower House were able to understand the views of their part-time colleagues here. As a result, the minister, as it is now called, gained considerably more "comfort" and then quickly submitted the novelle. In this process, which lasted a few years, the original proposal was submitted to us in the First Chamber four years ago. After all, the first reading will now be completed, well in time for the Dutch Parliamentary Elections of March 2017; the next election of the First Chamber will only take place before June 2019. All in all, through the almost unanimous Committees for the Interior (BZK) and Kingdom Relations (KOREL) the Upper House has, with the exception of the PVV of course, clearly marked its value in constitutional terms, but it is almost unnecessary to note that. In the explanatory memorandum to the original proposal, the Government outlined the contradiction between two principles: firstly, that only residents of Dutch nationality can influence the composition of the First Chamber and secondly, that non-Dutch residents, also under European case law, should not be excluded from the right to vote and stand as a candidate for the nearest administrative layer, in this case the island councils of the BES Islands. The government's choice was to have the first starting point prevail, especially for the time being, and thus deny non-Dutch residents the right to participate in island elections. The solution to this dilemma, which was called for at an early stage in this Chamber, is a separate electoral college for the election of the Upper Chamber. That may not be nice in terms of red tape, but it is a small number of voters and it must all be rigged up, but it is basically right, to honour both principles. I am pleased that this solution is now in place and my group will support it wholeheartedly. I would like to ask the Minister in this context for a more detailed explanation: how does he deal with legislative proposal 33900, which is still based on the idea that the island councils act as an electoral college for the First Chamber? I would find it logical to withdraw this proposal so that we are not put in a position to vote against it. I would almost forget that the proposal for constitutional revision is at the heart of something else, namely the establishment of the constitutional position of the three islands. The model chosen leaves open the possibility that the law gives the islands the position of municipalities. If so, the proposed Article 132a would partly lose its meaning and could be removed from the Constitution in a subsequent review round, as already stated in the 2011 response. In the meantime, however, I think it is obvious that for the foreseeable future municipal status is not a real option because of the exceptional circumstances that define the islands compared to the ordinary municipalities in the European Netherlands. The Spies Committee's evaluation does not provide any food for the idea that this will change in the short or even medium term. In itself, Mr Ganzevoort is right: this should actually be part of a much broader, wide-ranging evaluation. The Chamber has heard me talk about this on several occasions, recently in the debate on the State of the Kingdom. However, I think that we should now accept the proposed definition of public body status. Moreover, it is relevant that the proposal also seeks uniformity by declaring all the provisions applicable to municipalities to apply mutatis mutandis. The fundamental difference remains, of course, that the public bodies are "provinceless," if that is a word, it actually sounds good; we should do more often and be subject to different regulations. Strictly speaking, Article 134 of the Constitution could have provided sufficient legal basis for the designation of Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba as public bodies. The Council of State pointed that out years ago, but with the House of Representatives and ultimately the government, my group feels it is desirable that the three islands should be given their own constitutional designation and position in the Constitution. Moreover, Article 134 is not actually intended for territorial bodies. I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior whether he still considers the words of his predecessor Donner, who submitted the original proposal for constitutional revision, namely that there are so many different rules of law in the islands than in the European part of the Netherlands that there are two separate legal systems. In his opinion, is that indeed still the case? Is that supposed to stay that way? My group believes that there is every reason to consider the islands in a special way, given the special circumstances mentioned in Article 132a, but also considers that maintaining separate legal systems is not an end in itself. The starting point should be that where the regulations applicable to the municipality apply to the islands, there are good grounds for this, precisely because they are part of the Netherlands, and not to do that where they are not and are even better grounds. Moreover, these better grounds are often present and should in general give rise to legislative restraint. We discussed this in the last debate we had with the Minister before the summer recess. I'd like to receive the Minister's response. As usual, I await them with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a monumental process, namely the anchoring of the constitutional position of Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba in the Constitution. The Party for Animals is pleased that the First Chamber has waited until the evaluation of the new political relations in this Chamber has taken place. However, the discussion has not yet taken place on the political structure. Are we going to have that discussion? In what way will this discussion take place? My group insists that the legal equality that is sought for the islands should take place at more levels than only on subjects that are important from a short-term perspective. In a number of respects, intangible values seem to receive second-rate treatment in relation to the rest of the Netherlands. That is a very serious concern for my group. The Caribbean Netherlands does not have legislation similar to the Animal Law. Legislative restraint is a fine principle which, in practice, has the effect of a lethargy attitude, of laisser-faire, unfortunately. Our Constitution is based on the principle of anti-discrimination, equal treatment under equal conditions. As far as my group is concerned, any form of legal inequality within the Netherlands should be avoided and combated, including as regards the rights of animals, nature and the environment. It shouldn't matter for an animal which part of the Netherlands it lives in. That it matters again can be explained, but not in terms of protection regime. It could apply for a transitional period at the most. In the Caribbean Netherlands, only a limited number of criminal provisions in the field of animal welfare apply in the field of animal abuse and neglect. Public sector bodies have autonomous regulatory powers under the BES Act for matters not regulated by the national legislator, including animal welfare. With the constitutional reform, the government will have the opportunity, and as far as we are concerned, to protect and manage coral reefs, nebula forests and other Caribbean nature. This month, the most beautiful nature reserve in the Netherlands is chosen. One of the thirteen nominated nature reserves is Saba. On Saba, a special municipality of the Netherlands, as we all know here, the Saba National Marine Park has been selected by the jury. It is a marine reserve and a national park of a total of 1,300 hectares on and around the island. Since 1987, this area has been a national park. I'd like to give an explanation of vote. My entire group voted for Saba, not only because it is one of the most beautiful natural areas in our country, but also because it is one of the most endangered and least protected natural areas in our country. Political cooperation should not be limited to money flows and dead letters in the law books, even if they are in the Constitution. You can't live in constitutions, you can't walk in constitutions, you can't survive in constitutions, you can't survive in endangered nature. That is why I call on the Minister not to leave it with fine words in the Constitution, which we mark today, but to apply a non-word-but-action policy for nature and other vulnerable values. Between dream and deed, practical objections can stand in the way, but let us do everything in legislation and its implementation to make dreams come true before they are history. The dodo had no natural enemies and a beautiful life until the arrival of Dutch settlers in Mauritius. Unfortunately, the arrival of our ancestors meant a bad end for the dodo. Let us avoid that nature on Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba fade into beautiful memories, but provide protection while it is still possible and badly needed. Let us really treat animals, nature and the environment on the three islands as if they were part of the Netherlands, because they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. A day after 10-10-16 and therefore six years after 10-10-10, we can now talk here about the inclusion in the Constitution of the Netherlands that the Caribbean islands can be set up as territorial public bodies other than provinces and municipalities by law and also abolished. Now with the novelle in part No. 34341 is arranged that the island councils remain open to resident non-Dutch residents, but there will be separate electoral colleges for the election of the Upper Chamber, this case can be completed. If the three islands are part of the country Netherlands, their position should also be regulated in the Constitution of the country Netherlands and no longer provisionally in the Statute. The fact that the islands are part of the Netherlands is the real situation. It does not seem appropriate to question this now either from here or from the islands themselves. No one knows what the future can bring, but now, in a party programme, to call into question the Kingdom's order by suggesting a commonest structure, in which even the three minuscule islands we are talking about today should be able to function as independent commonwealth countries, seems to be at odds with any conceivable reality or desirability. The task now is to finish what we started: to make the three islands fully partake in the country of the Netherlands? For the time being, this still imposes on us enough obligations that we have not yet fulfilled and which therefore need to be addressed. In the Lower House, for example, the Minister once again stated that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs is developing a benchmark for security of existence, which should then be derived from the minimum wage. We have discussed this with this Minister before and we have already noted that this is the way the horse is getting behind the car, because, of course, the minimum wage should not be the standard of living for the security of life, but should be the standard for the assessment of the minimum wage. So it is too early to be able to shout now, as we have done before about a part of the state at the time: something great has been done! It still has to be. With this beginning of the constitutional adjustment procedure, we clearly underline our responsibility for the three islands, the responsibility for their security, including their security of existence and also their ability to be and to remain self-sufficient. The proposed constitutional amendment also allows for special circumstances to be taken into account by means of separate legislation, which distinguishes these public bodies from the European part of the Netherlands. It seems to me that it would be useful not to use this opportunity to make a difference in order to be cheaper with social provisions than here. In 2012, the Council of State specifically pointed out that there may be a cultural distinction with regard to the European part of the Netherlands. I think that the proposed text of the Constitution would be a better starting point for taking this into account. I am pleased that with these laws we can give the three islands a constitutional place in our country in the long term. I will be happy to vote in favour of the legislative proposal and the novella, hoping that we will be able to see with good reason that something great has been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes the fact that, following a major operation earlier this summer, the Minister is back behind the government table this afternoon. We wish him a prosperous recovery. The BES islands are of great concern to my group. We are therefore pleased with the novella by which the constitutional status of Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba as public bodies is enshrined, or at least that should be emphasised when it comes to granting the right to vote for the First Chamber, through separate electoral colleges next to the island councils. This draws the imminent democratic deficit between Dutch and non-Dutch residents. We do not want to deprive non-Dutch citizens on the islands of the right to vote for the nearest level of government in accordance with our municipal elections, but we do not want non-Dutch citizens to be able to influence the composition of the First Chamber through their right to vote. That is a constitutional dilemma. Our opinion is that our Chamber has operated strongly on this dossier, including across party boundaries. It's just been memorized for a while. The formation of separate electoral colleges is a simple but also striking compromise. It is a pity that all this has taken a long time again! But with the adoption of the novelle, the regular elections of our Chamber in May 2019 can take place with full input from our countrymen on the BES Islands, all in accordance with the constitutional requirements for the stepped elections of Provincial States in the European part of the Netherlands. However, two votes should be cast instead of one vote. We assume that the 33900 bill will be repealed. My group is keen to hear the Minister's response to this. I would also ask the Minister to share with us how the procedure for voting through separate electoral colleges will work in practice. Is there going to be one electoral college for Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba, or is there going to be one electoral college per public body, so by island? The solution chosen is a fine one, but the operational design and communication on it must of course be flawless. Luckily, there's time for that. How does the Minister see the implementation process? How is the discussion going? What implementing legislation is to be expected? The question is, then, when can we expect such implementing legislation? I like to hear it. My group notes that after some push and pull work, Saint Eustatius can agree to the bill. How is this for the other two islands? I am also asking this question in view of the outcome of the Bonaire referendum. Would the Minister like to fill us in on this? On 18 December 2014, the Minister sent a letter to the House of Representatives in which options for an electoral college to be formed were explored. Can he indicate what choices he has made himself in the meantime, precisely when it comes to operational settlement and ensuring correct electoral procedures? Think also of calculating the voting value. The Minister did not fail to state that the present constitutional position of the islands as public bodies was not recognised by this novelle. For the time being, it is only a constitutional rule governing the right to vote for the island councils and the First Chamber. The government always left the final constitutional model open for the constitutional anchoring of the Caribbean Netherlands, also pending the evaluation of the new political relations after 10-10-10. Mr De Graaf already mentioned that. The Spies Committee has taken this evaluation decisively and came up with a sound opinion, on which we were able to discuss in detail with the Minister in June of this year. The committee found an evaluation after five years too short for a drastic review of the institutional relations between the Caribbean and the European Netherlands. We understand that, but the final model is still open. Mr Ganzevoort also addressed this issue in his contribution. This, while Article 134 of the Constitution, if I see it correctly, provides only a temporary basis for territorial or functional decentralisation. This Chamber has repeatedly called for explicitation of the state-law final model, the constitutional dot on the horizon. What is the Minister's long-term view of the envisaged constitutional status of Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba? Do these islands remain public bodies? What are the other modalities? How does he communicate with the islands themselves about this? Does he want to take any further steps in this matter, or does he leave this to another cabinet? In short, I am asking for the ambition and vision of a minister of Kingdom relations in his last year as a member of this cabinet. I'd like to wait for the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u9	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, but only after I have asked him if he is able to reply immediately. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u10	Madam President. I would like to thank the Chamber for its willingness to deal with this matter now. As a result, before the House of Representatives is dissolved, we assume that next year March was adopted by both Chambers at first reading, so that in a subsequent period in second reading this constitutional amendment can be dealt with, so that in 2019, at the next opportunity for the elections of the First Chamber, the Dutch who live in the Caribbean part of the country Netherlands, namely Bonaire, Statia and Saba, also have full voting rights for the First Chamber. They already have that before the House of Representatives. Since they do not live in a province, they do not vote for Provincial States. They are therefore unable to vote for the First Chamber in this way. But after this constitutional change, they can do so through the vote for the electoral college. I can tell you that it will be submitted to the new Parliament for a second reading as soon as it is installed. So we're gonna speed it up. In accordance with the wishes of the First Chamber, the government has submitted a novelle to ensure that foreigners living in the Caribbean region of the Netherlands, who cannot, of course, have the indirect right to vote in the First Chamber, do so once before before the Island Council. The House of Representatives didn't like that. But now that Mr De Graaf refers to it, it might be good to give the credits to former D66 member of the Chamber, Mrs Hachchi, who has indeed picked up the signal in the House of Representatives that was widely raised in the First Chamber. Mrs Hachchi has asked me to start this novel. I did. The main issue of the treatment here is that at first reading we give the right to vote to a group of Dutch people living in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. The reason why we are doing this later is that we have now set it up in such a way that foreigners there too can retain the right to vote for local government. Of course, this means that draft law 33900 has been repealed. Mrs Van Bijsterveld and others have asked for this. So that is the case here. On a number of subjects I can say the necessary; however, I can do the best I can in response to the questions put. As far as I'm concerned, we'll do it all at once. The first speaker will then receive most of the answers to his or her questions, but other Members have also asked some questions. I hope that Members will not find this objectionable. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked whether the amendments contained in draft law 33268 still require a separate entry into force. That is not the case, as I indicated in my letter of November 2014. In doing so, the right to vote and stand as a candidate for foreign nationals has been granted. This can continue now that we have an electoral college to ensure that only the Dutch obtain the right to vote for the Upper House. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also asked if there was a response from the newly elected island board on Bonaire. That is not the case. They've asked for it, but they haven't gotten to it yet. It is also asked whether I am prepared to consult with the island authorities on the implementation law and on the second reading. The answer is, of course, yes. So I'm going to admit it. A question has also been asked about the use of the word "Caribbean" versus "Caribbean." I took a look at it, and according to the Language Union both are allowed. In other legislation, the word "Caribbean" is used. In the meantime, I have used that as well. But like Mrs Van Bijsterveld, my initial tendency was to speak of "Caribbean." However, in this law and in the Constitution, we are talking about the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. This brings me to the input of Mr Ganzevoort. He raised a number of important points, such as whether this has created a final situation. He is right that we have pointed out ahead and said that we would first like to await the opinion of the Spies Committee on Evaluation before we commit ourselves to the question of whether this is a stable situation. As Mr De Graaf pointed out, the opinion of the Spies Committee does not in any way justify reconsidering the current situation. However, I would like to stress that what we now lay down under the Constitution leaves room for the ordinary legislator to decide on another occasion that public bodies will still become municipalities. Mr De Graaf used the word "provinceless." I'd rather use the word "province-free." In any case, it can be reconsidered by the ordinary legislator. We deliberately tried not to get ahead of that. However, at the moment I have no reason to believe that public bodies would appreciate joining a province. The most important practical difference at the moment, namely the right to vote for Provincial States, was resolved at first reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u11	In itself, we can find ourselves in this final model. But every final model is provisional until something else comes up. It seems useful to us to be clear in the sense of: as it stands now, this is the final model for which we have chosen de facto. There is no plan to evaluate that further or to discuss it further, and there is no prospect that it will be anything else. Of course, that can always happen again, but for the time being this is the final model.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u12	I wouldn't want to use the word "end model." When we look at the relations in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, we see that they are constantly moving. However, if Mr Ganzevoort means that the cabinet does not intend to change that model at the moment, we say the same thing and I endorse it. He also asked about the differentiation clause. He himself noted that it had actually only moved from the Statute to the Constitution. He supports this move and the fact that its terms are even more general. However, he points that out to a question that I would like to stay away from with this constitutional amendment, namely whether or not this would apply in an individual case. It is up to the ordinary legislator to assess this on a case-by-case basis. I think we can agree on that. I would suggest to him that a debate on an individual case should not take place during this constitutional amendment. This brings me to Mrs Meijer, who, apart from the points I have just mentioned, has asked some of the same questions. She asked about the forms that are going to be used and about the practical way in which the election will be organised. I agree with her that this needs attention, because this is, of course, only a small difference for the people on the islands. For example, the composition of the electoral college could be identical in terms of persons to the composition of the island council. Then why are we voting twice? We're gonna have to explain that properly. I have to go back to that, I say 'I', but let's leave it to the stars whether I am or my successor to the introduction law, which is linked to the second reading of the constitutional change that is now before us. I agree that this point needs further clarification. Mr De Graaf spoke about municipal status. I believe that he and the government are on the same lines, including with regard to the interpretation of the conclusions of the Spies Committee. There is no acute reason to change the state now. More attention is needed in all the other areas where so much remains to be done. That is also the answer to Mr Ester's question. My ambition in the six months that I am still missionary, who knows, may I manage this beautiful portfolio for a few months afterwards, rather than in further political changes in the Caribbean Netherlands, but rather in the implementation of programmes in the fields of children's rights, economic development, social development, infrastructure and so on. This afternoon the budget of Kingdom relations will be discussed across the street. I shall therefore continue to discuss these issues with the Chamber of the States-General. Mr De Graaf also asked me a question of conscience. My honourable predecessor, Mr Donner, said that there were two separate legal systems and that, if that were the case, this should not be an end in itself. I do not want to go back to what he said, but I think I am very much on Mr De Graaf's line. You can also highlight the same from the other side and say: the legal systems are equal, unless there is a reason to have different legal systems. That is the question of a half-full or half-empty glass, and I would like to stay away from it. From the point of view of legislative restraint, he was right to emphasise that not everything we lay down by law in the Netherlands automatically belongs to the legal order of those small islands in the Caribbean. However, when it comes to citizens' rights and duties, we will think: we are all Dutch under the same sun, albeit at a different time of day. That is precisely when the common legal order comes first. I can get out of the way with both interpretations: they are two sides of the same coin. I wouldn't stress separate legal systems right now. Mrs Teunissen asked about the political structure. I have just answered that. I'll be back in a minute to see if I've missed any questions. Mrs Teunissen emphasized nature and animal life on Saba. She even gave an explanation of vote for the most beautiful nature reserve in the Kingdom. I will go into shallow water if I give an explanation of vote here too, so I will not do so. The fact is that half of the animal species in the Kingdom are found on the coral reefs in Saba, so that is a source of great diversity. I very much appreciate that on this occasion the PvdD called again for attention to be paid to that beautiful part of the Kingdom and nature there. Mrs Teunissen also spoke about the dodo, the brave dodo. In my own party there is now more attention to the brave Dido than to the brave dodo. It's gonna go a long way, but we can't do anything for the brave dodo right now from Box K. Mr Ten Hoeve of the OSF asked questions I have already answered. He gave reflections on the importance of the change that is now before us. We endorse it. It's still a constitutional change. It is therefore always of great importance. He is right to say that many proposed constitutional changes do not ultimately reach second reading, sometimes even the first reading. In any case, it will reach its first reading. As several honourable Members have pointed out, it may be assumed that it will also reach second reading. Well, then, this is an important moment. Mr Ester asked whether there should be one or more electoral colleges and whether the government had an opinion on this. I deliberately left that in the proposal. The ordinary legislator can rethink this, also because the interest in this issue has not been crushing so far, which is unfortunate from the administrative colleges when it comes to the three public bodies. So I did not get a uniform, unisono answer to the question whether they preferred one electoral college or more electoral colleges. It's all still to be organized. There are two sides to that. You can keep it simple and go for one electoral college, but on the other hand the public bodies are some 900 kilometers apart and you also want recognizability and local anchoring. These arguments will have to be weighed by the ordinary legislator in due course. The constitutional change leaves both possible. That's what we were supposed to do. I have answered Mr Ester's question as to whether we still have ambitions for another legal embedding of public bodies. We have a lot of ambitions with the Caribbean Netherlands, also next six months, but these relate mainly to other areas. Mr. Chairman. I think that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u13	I heard you say, Minister, that you are withdrawing bill 33900. We're gonna get a letter about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u14	Asking the question is answering him. I'll get a letter on that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u15	It was also a leading question. We shall then have to wait for the second term from the Chamber. I call Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, on behalf of the groups of CDA and VVD, I have already supported the combination of both constitutional reform proposals. I'd like to repeat that. We are also pleased that the government intends to withdraw legislative proposal 33900. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering the other questions. I'd like a little clarification. The Minister said that there is no need for a separate decision to revive the suspended provisions on the right to vote and to stand as a candidate now in force. I assume that they will only resurrect once the present proposal enters into force, in conjunction with the corresponding electoral college bill. I'd like that confirmed. Then there is the term 'public body','special municipality', and 'the final model'. As far as we are concerned, this is mainly a semantic discussion. We can live well with the model as it is now. When necessary, we will assess adjustments or proposals for adaptation to their merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u17	Mr. Chairman. I can be short, but not as short of dust as the dodo is today. I thought the comparison with the minister's party leader was a little risky, but we can see how that will end. We are pleased that bill 33900 is off the table. The term "end model" is used, but another term may also be used by us, among other things, by the Council of State at the time. It has always played a major role in the debate. At the moment, it is clear that we are moving forward with this model and that there will be no next steps, but that should be said. Then it's clear. Another issue that we did not intend to discuss today. We are certainly going to talk about how the principle of differentiation is working out in practice. The fact that this raises such big questions on these fundamental issues does say something about what the principle of differentiation means at all. That debate will come back. For now, we are pleased that we have reached this point. The constitutional anchoring of the position of the three islands, Bonaire, Saba and Statia, can now be established with a good way to elect the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u18	Mr. Chairman. I too can be very brief. We welcome the constitutional revision, including the novella. Since there is a good chance that this will be a hammerpiece in this Chamber at second reading, I would now like to congratulate the Minister on the fact that he is likely to receive a constitutional revision. That is always a great privilege for a minister. I know that from my own experience, because I have put at least one in my name, albeit not the revision I very much wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u19	I'm not going into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u20	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering our questions. My group can live excellently with the novella which, as I said, removes the threatening democratic deficit on the islands. It is good that the Minister withdraws bill 33900. That also makes my group a little sharper in the final weighing. We continue to regret keeping the final model open. It takes something away from the glow of this debate. We can live by ourselves with the continuation of the islands as public bodies, but would have preferred this to be the final conclusion of a firm evaluation. However, it is no different. It is good that next six months the Minister will use it to take a number of significant steps in the problem that really concerns the islands, at least that is the ambition he shared with us, namely poverty, children's rights and the question of what is an acceptable social minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u21	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for its broad support. I agree with those who say that this is an important moment. It is the end of a debate on the constitutional change. In fact, I can imagine that this will not lead to further major discussions at second reading. I therefore thank the First Chamber, also for its persistence at a point which has still led to debate, but that is also typical of the role of the First Chamber, namely on an aspect that was initially not interested on the other side. This House has drawn attention to this, and this has led to an amended proposal. There was a question from Mrs Van Bijsterveld about the right to vote for foreigners. Is that gonna change? That's not true. The right to vote of foreigners was revived in January 2015. So it just stays the way it was in January 2015. The answer to her question, if I understood it correctly, is yes. Thank you to Mr De Graaf for his kind words. The other idea of amending the Constitution, which is very close to my heart, is also being further developed. A proposal was adopted at first reading. So it will probably come back here at second reading. Whether I'm there is verse two. But it is the big picture in which this is ultimately achieved. Mr Ester asked about the exact timing in the first period. The aim is to consult the draft implementing legislation in March 2017, once the elections have been held. We shall now move forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u23	It took me a while to walk to the interrupt microphone, but I still need a little clarification. I can imagine that the Minister was considering the right to vote for non-Dutch citizens. That would have to do with the decision of the Common Court of Justice. The right to vote should be granted to non-Dutch citizens for the island councils, at least until the time when an election to the First Chamber is passed. The right to vote is one point, but the second point is, of course, the right to stand as a candidate. That's another matter. Can the Minister comment on this, for the sake of clarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u24	I'm gonna take a look upstairs on the right, at my officials in the bleachers. Someone's looking very hard. He must either go to the bathroom or be the indication. That is where I am referring to the fact that this applies to both forms of voting rights. From the nod, I can see that the second is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u25	This means that they have entered into force. So that also means that... I actually have to put it in the asking form. Should this constitutional change not have been completed at the time of the island elections in the BES islands and if the constitutional change and the new proposed legislation are not there, will there be any progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u26	Yes, because then the island council will actually be chosen according to the current legislation, for which foreigners can also vote. That island council will then not have the power to vote in favour of the composition of the Upper Chamber. For this I didn't even have to look up to the right, but I see a thumb going up there now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-10.u28	I've come to deal with the legislative proposals, minus the bill 33900. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the legislative proposal 33131, Declaration that there is grounds for considering a proposal to change the Constitution to include a constitutional basis for the public bodies Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba and to regulate the involvement of their general representative bodies in the election of the members of the First Chamber? That's the case. I propose that we vote on legislative proposal 33131 on Tuesday 25 October. Does one of the members wish to vote on the legislative proposal 34341, Amendment of the law declaring that there is grounds for considering a proposal to change the Constitution to include a constitutional basis for the public bodies Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba and to regulate the involvement of their general representative bodies in the election of the members of the First Chamber (choice College First Chamber)? The PVV wants a vote on this. I propose to vote on Tuesday 25 October on legislative proposal 34341. The Minister said he's withdrawing bill 33900. There's gonna be another letter about that. So I do not need to ask for a vote.
