ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u1	Before we start this debate with Mr De Vries as the first speaker, I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service, as well as the people who are following this debate, at home or here in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party considers this bill to be mostly symbolic policy. There remains a duty to housing status holders and, of course, Article 1 of our Constitution remains the starting point for the PvdA. All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. So licence holders are entitled to housing. In fact, it is scandalous and also silly that so many status holders still live in an asylum-seekers' centre. Shameful, because these people are entitled to a decent home, and oily, because these people occupy places where there is an urgent need with the increased influx of refugees and with which we could have limited the emergency shelter, and could have prevented any excitement about the construction of new azc's. But a discussion about the rights of people who have a licence is, in our opinion, nonsense. The PVV is conducting this discussion systematically, and that raises the question of whether the PVV, the Party of Freedom, will continue to respect Article 1 of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u3	It seems a bit like a reverse situation, as if I am in front of the chair and Mr De Vries is asking a question. I have a question for Mr De Vries. Did Mr De Vries just literally say that the Dutch are holding places for asylum seekers or asylum seekers, what you want to call them, and that is why the flow is not good?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u4	No, I said it's unwise that we didn't make sure more houses were built. Then the status holders could have poured out, we would have had no waiting times, we wouldn't have needed emergency care and we wouldn't have had to have had all those difficult discussions about new azc's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u5	I wonder how many people Mr De Vries wants to lose in the Netherlands, also in view of the growth of the population in Africa over the next twenty or thirty years. There are 1 billion additional people, of whom, according to the UN, 200 million are likely to drift. They want to cross the Sahara and then the Mediterranean. If you build the whole of the Netherlands, you can just lose the people of Pakistan. I'll give you that. If Mr De Vries still sees a little bit of a limit to what is to be built up, then he may have a thinker on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u6	I don't think I should go into that, Mr. Chairman. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, the discussion must be about very different things. For many reasons, there is a large shortage of affordable rental homes in large parts of the Netherlands. That goes for anyone who's dependent on a place like this. Even in the shrinking areas there are waiting times now. The demand is greater than the supply. Due to the rent increases many homes have crossed the border of €586, the border under which a property is called "cheap." Due to the measure of appropriate allocation, a much larger group of households depends on such an affordable home. So there is much more demand and too little supply. There is a growing risk of displacement due to scarcity. In addition to moderation and selective reduction of rents, the PvdA has long been calling for new construction of affordable social housing throughout the country. In some parts of the country this may be temporary housing, as demand will fall again in the longer term. In other parts of the country these are permanent dwellings, where the target group will increase significantly. The Labour Party came to the budget debate last year with a plan for the rapid construction of 100,000 prefab homes. No containers, such as VVD and PVV made them derogatory, but simply cheap temporary homes, which can be built quickly and which meet all the performance requirements of the Building Decision, so also to the energy performance requirements, so that the housing costs can remain relatively low. I have recommended several times to the colleagues to google that. Once they have done so, they have seen that there is a huge range of often very nicely designed prefab houses at affordable prices. If demand for this type of housing comes on a large scale, the Dutch Confederation of Supply Construction assures, the prices will of course fall significantly. Our 100,000-dwelling plan was not just about license holders, but about all the people who have been waiting a long time for an affordable home, or who need one because of short-term circumstances. Our pleas are still about that. Anyone with a narrow scholarship is entitled to a decent home. That must be the discussion we are discussing. Our motion to give municipalities an indicative task for the construction of affordable homes, whether temporary or not, was widely supported. Unfortunately, the implementation of this motion has taken a long time. In the end, an incentive arrangement was chosen instead of indicative targets. During the evaluation of the landlord's tax, it was decided to allow a deduction of €10,000 throughout the country and of €20,000 in the scarcity areas for each new social rental house with a rent of up to €586. For Rotterdam-Zuid and the shrinking areas there are additional deduction possibilities. The change in the law that regulates this is coming to the Chamber very soon. The PvdA is proud that it has been able to achieve this in a discussion which it describes as symbolic politics. Finally, there is a view of an affordable home for everyone who is dependent on it: license holders but also all others. In the case of housing shortages, there is displacement and a variety of priority rules are devised. The priority given to marketing authorisation holders did not lead to widespread displacement. For a long time, only 6% of the rental homes released went to status holders. However, we have to face the fact that this percentage is increasing and that there are areas in the Netherlands where this percentage is much higher. Therefore, the PvdA does not have so many problems with removing the priority rule in the Housing Act since it has been able to reach agreement within the coalition on a substantial boost to the expansion of the stock of affordable rental homes. Municipalities just keep their targets. The compulsory priority scheme applies only in the 178 municipalities which have a housing regulation. If that obligation expires, the city council still has to decide on the actual removal of the priority regime from their regulation. We expect that not all 178 municipalities will do so. If they do, there will be considerable pressure to add affordable social housing. Municipalities that evade their obligations can count on intervention from the province and a reprimand from the minister. In the letter on the evaluation of the landlord tax, the Minister wrote to our satisfaction that, for example, he is also going to appeal to the peripheral municipalities of large cities to take responsibility for building a proportionate number of affordable social housing. The PvdA believes that we should take responsibility together, not only for the accommodation of licence holders but for all people who have been waiting a long time for a home and for all people who need an affordable rental accommodation in the short term by any circumstance. In this context, the PvdA will vote in favour of the bill. Mr. Chairman. If I may, I would like to make another comment in the direction of the PVV. Mr De Graaf, we are both going to vote in favour of this legislative proposal. You are outraged and the setting up of groups against each other. You've made more people angry and left others in the cold with so many words...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u7	Mr De Vries, it seems to me that you should use your speaking time to express your own party's views. You can ask the representative of the PVV later. This way you will provoke an interruption of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u8	I was done. I have stated that the PvdA will vote for this bill because it will actually build more houses. In this way, we can make a concrete contribution to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u9	The very first sentence of the input of the PvdA was: this is a pure symbol law. After that, Mr De Vries started to pass on to the PVV. By the way, I agreed with him in substance. Then, in his contribution, a very strange twist came to the conclusion that the PvdA will vote for it anyway. If this is a symbol law, why does the PvdA vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u10	The PvdA is voting in favour of this law because, during the talks in the coalition, it managed to get something done about the real problem, namely the lack of affordable houses. That's our trade-off. We really get an incentive for building large numbers of cheap homes. This will solve the problem. In doing so, we take for granted that this law, which is, in our view, symbolic policy, should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u11	This law gives the impression that simply not giving status holders priority leads to more homes. That's a very annoying symbolism. That's the symbolism the PVV uses. By voting in favour, the PvdA goes along with that. Really a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u12	I have already said in my speech that the abolition of this primacy rule has no effect whatsoever. It will only have effect if those 178 municipalities which have a regulation effectively delete that priority from their regulation. In addition, all these municipalities still have the task of housing those people with a permit. In this respect, my group does not see this legislative amendment having so many consequences at all. On the other hand, we can achieve a really good incentive for building cheap houses, something that corporations are now leaving behind. My group believes that this is a gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u13	Bright, Mr De Vries of the Labour Party thinks this is symbolic legislation. I agree with him. Last year, when the budget was discussed, Mr De Vries tabled a motion on the construction of 100,000 temporary dwellings. That's what he just said in his speech. That motion also stated the condition that if those homes were there, the PvdA would agree to the present bill. I don't know any figures showing that 100,000 homes have been built. That didn't happen by a long shot. So why does the Labour Party still agree to this bill, despite the fact that that objective is far from being met?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u14	The Minister has not had a chance to carry out the motion we have tabled on this matter literally. However, a large number of municipalities have started to work. In Limburg and in the middle of the country there are municipalities that have really built houses on a reasonable scale. Now there will be a deduction of €10,000 and €20,000. In my group's view, this really boosts the construction of affordable new rental homes. Then you have to weigh interests against each other. D66, too, has rarely succeeded in getting its way one hundred percent. We've weighed this up. We have said that, in relation to this legislation, it is clear that there will be considerably more affordable houses for licence holders and for all those other people who have been waiting for a house for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u15	There's a little bit of my problem with this bill. A broad majority is for more building, for removing waiting lists and for making the housing market work better. Indeed, good initiatives have been launched to build. For example, the Minister has launched a good initiative. By linking this symbol law to that law, it will, as far as I am concerned, be able to see the light of day. I find it disappointing that the Labour Party is taking part in this process of thinking by supporting this symbol law of the VVD, while the goal is: to build! So why does the PvdA go along with this symbol law, which it is so opposed to at its core? After all, this is against integration and against fair employment opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u16	We've made an assessment. To what extent is what Mr Koolmees is saying actually the case? Materially, this means almost nothing. 178 municipalities have a regulation. We are now saying that the next municipality that makes such a regulation should not use it as a priority for status holders. In all these 178 municipalities, this just stays in it, unless the city council decides to delete it. And when that happens, the mission still stands. So yes, in our view, there is such a small interest here that we have given the greater importance to be given, namely that a considerable boost can be given to the construction of new houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u17	Thank you. Before we listen to Mr Bashir, I tell the spokesmen that I have not so far set a limit on the number of interruptions. Nevertheless, I would like to try with you to conclude this debate at about seven o'clock. There will be another debate after dinner break. So that has to start after dinner break. I hope the spokesmen will try to make it with me. The debate must, of course, be given the place it needs. We'll do the interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u18	Mr. Chairman. The next item is the symbolic legislation of the Minister for Housing. For those of you who wonder what symbol legislation looks like, I'll show you a piece of paper on it. It's one A4's. If you leave out all the spaces, it's even shorter and thinner than the PVV's election program. A sentence is deleted from Article 12 of the Housing Act and a sentence is added. And here and there some commas and points are corrected that were wrong. And that while there are long waiting lists for social housing. This housing shortage is not falling out of the sky either. Under the Rutte Cabinets, there is an active effort to reduce the stock of social housing. For example, the liberalization limit has been frozen so that homes can no longer be a social housing unit more quickly. Consciously, they've chosen to sell thousands of rental houses. Consciously, they chose to demolish homes: last year alone more than 11,000. Aware is the construction of affordable rental houses frustrated by the landlord's tax. To further exacerbate the pain, rents have also increased dramatically in recent years. What is the Minister doing about this housing shortage? He's in box-K defending symbol law. The motion of the VVD which called for this and which was supported by the political groups of the PvdA and the PVV was tabled on 15 October. It took the Minister eleven months to write this A4 symbol law; he has put the entire ministry to work on this. The minister could also have built houses together with municipalities and housing corporations. Why does he choose symbol law? Last year there was a statistical deficit of 133,000 homes. In addition, there are the 16,000 licence holders who wait in the shelter. Furthermore, 10,000 rental homes are needed for people in social care, such as homeless people and psychiatric patients. All these people have a right to a home. The Minister for Housing is, of course, responsible for sufficiently affordable rentals. Why doesn't the Minister ensure that anyone who has the right to an affordable home can get it? Why doesn't he choose real solutions? Why is he hiding behind false solutions and symbolic politics? That's what he's doing with the bill before us. This law doesn't add up to a single house. If there are enough rentals, there doesn't need to be a fight for priority. Take the landlord's tax. This leads to housing corporations being unable to invest anymore. Make sure that housing corporations have capital again to be able to invest. Why doesn't the Minister use the landlord's tax to address the waiting lists? The Minister can also ensure that the licence holders who need a home are placed where housing is free. Why are most licence holders still placed in cities with the longest waiting lists? If people get a residence permit, they are entitled to housing, like all other Dutch people, preferably in mixed neighbourhoods, so that integration can be promoted immediately. Instead of promoting housing, the Minister actually blames the refugees with a residence permit for the deficits in the social housing sector. This masks the fact that the cabinet has deliberately focused on reducing the stock of social housing. Stop scattering sand in the eyes of house seekers and stimulate building, building and building.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u19	Mr. Chairman. It is quite remarkable that three parties have already taken the name "PVV" in their mouths at least fifteen times. We have not even spoken in this debate! Who says the PVV has no influence? Today I can take over from Mr Madlener, who has another appointment. I'm doing this with love. First of all, it is good to make clear what figures are involved. Of course, it's about people, but it's also about numbers. In the first half of 2016, the municipalities had to accommodate 20,000 people with a residence status. These are people with a residence permit, I say to the people who are watching this debate at home. In the second half of 2016, the municipalities have to house a further 23,000 status holders, which is another word for these people. On top of that, the municipalities had a deficit of 3,400 people from 2015. To meet all this, the total mission for 2016 is 46,400 people with a residence permit. These figures come from the Ministry, so we'll just consider them accurate. 46.400; this is a city as big as Middelburg or, for the people in the east of the land, Zutphen, or, for the people in the south of the land, Weather, or, for the people in the north of the land, Hereveen. Not all four, but one of four; that's about it. That's a few thousand after the arena of 020 full. So many asylum seekers with a residence permit get a cottage in the Netherlands. That's in one year's time, because that's the goal. Of course, they don't just get a cabin. We have talked about this before, but it is useful to mention it in the context of this debate and in the light of the problems involved: they receive special assistance for the furnishing of this house. They also receive education for children, integration courses, supplements, benefits and health insurance. It can't go on, then, for the asylum seeker. The Dutch can choke on this cabinet. They're paying for the decline of their own neighborhood. Whether this law is going to help them shorten their longer stay on the waiting list, which they have sometimes been standing on for eight or nine years, for a social rental house, can be seen. But I'll talk about that later. In the last month alone, we are talking about August 2016 and 2,400 asylum seekers came into the Netherlands. 20% of this was a traveler and can count on family reunification. In other words, it goes on and on and on and on. Until the government realizes that the borders have to be closed. Until the government, or this government, too, says: enough is enough. Until then, however, only the PVV sees that this stream is breaking new ground in Dutch peculiarity and culture, because that is ultimately the result. This influx makes it more difficult for all those millions of Dutch people who already have so much trouble keeping their identity. Until then, only the PVV sees the displacement in the housing market. The present amendment of the law is nice. Status holders lose the urgency status when assigning a social housing. That principle supports the PVV. I think that Mr Koolmees was just standing at the interrupting microphone during Mr Bashir's contribution or Mr De Vries' contribution to the last budgetary act for Wonen and Rijksdienst. By pressure from my colleague Madlener, the VVD filed the motion from which this bill results. Then I say again: who dares to claim that the PVV has no influence? We have, of course, supported the motion. Its impact is ahead of us today. That does not mean that we are completely satisfied with the end result. The UNG and the Council of State have indicated that little will change in practice, as we see it. That is why we have tabled an amendment. The requirements of last December's governance agreement will have to be removed; that is the condition. But is it true that the agreements on the housing of status holders are enshrined in the administrative agreement in this law? Is that how the Minister sees it? I come to the amendment. As mentioned above, the principle of preventing displacement in the housing market is an important point for the PVV. The PVV has already tabled an amendment in the past year to speed this up. At that time, however, the Minister felt that there was no urgency, and that is why he discouraged that amendment. The PVV remains of the opinion that this law does not stop the displacement of the housing market. That is why I tabled that amendment with my colleague Madlener. The displacement must really be stopped. The amendment ensures that status holders are treated equally, and equal treatment is a good thing, isn't it? The Court of Justice of the European Communities held that the Court of Justice of the European Communities had failed to fulfil its obligations under the EC Treaty and that the Court of This amendment simply puts status holders on the waiting list just like the Dutch. And if you come last, you're gonna be in the back. That's what all the Dutch did; they were the last ones on that waiting list and then they came in the back. Delicious! In this way, Article 1 of the Constitution is being implemented fantasticly, as I say to Mr De Vries of the Labour Party. If our amendment is not adopted, we believe that there is still too much power in the Central Commission for Asylum seekers and in the municipalities with this task. The COA is actually acting like a state within a state. For people seeking asylum and getting a permit in the Netherlands should apply: just line up in line. Once again, discrimination against Dutch people must be stopped. Finally. We want the current asylum flow to stop. The policy that has been pursued so far is merely a draining effect. I told you in an interruption: you can lose in the Netherlands, if you complete the country, maybe 80, 90 million people, but then it is full. The question is, is it still viable? Can you help the whole world, can you catch the whole world? No. You can make sure that your own street stays clean, because then you have plenty of space and energy to help the people in the region. It would make the world so beautiful. We want the borders closed. Stop the suction. Take our amendment, I'd say. Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out that I have stayed well within the time available to me, and I would like to point out that, as you have just pointed out, the 1990s have taught us what social problems the invasions can bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u20	Mr. Chairman. Imagine, you're a nurse in Haarlem, in Alphen aan den Rijn or in Spijkenisse. You're about 30 years old. You have fun at work and you work hard for your salary. Because you also have night shifts, you want to live close to work. That's why you're on the waiting list for a nice apartment. But that waiting list is for all kinds of reasons for seven years. There are people on there who don't need an apartment like that at all, at least not for work. If, after seven years, you think it's your turn, you're told to wait another two years because a particular target group, status holders, has priority. This keeps people busy in the Netherlands. The accommodation of licence holders is on the sign of the common man. This year, 45,000 people with a status must be housed. These are 45,000 people who, according to the current rules, have been given or still receive a social housing accommodation with priority. This also means that 45,000 other people are on hold. That's what people worry about. This leads to extreme views. Some people are calling for all status holders to go back, even to war zone. Of course, that is not going to work, so thousands of people, including children, would be sleeping in porches. Other people are shouting the opposite: we are going to improve the world and take in a refugee. That is very noble, but not realistic at all. The rest of the Netherlands, by that I mean 80%, 90%, just wants us to get it right. They are nice, hardworking Dutch people who also think that we should give war refugees a good place to stay. But those same people do not understand that we immediately offer people the luxury package: a terraced house, social security, full access to health care. That just doesn't feel fair to people who have to work 40 hours a week for years for the same amenities. Local drivers worked hard and hard last year to provide shelter for refugees. It was about emergency care and shelter in azc's. For a smaller group it was ultimately an ordinary house. In that last step is the pain. We want people with a licence to be able to participate in society as soon as possible, so they should not stay in an azc. However, I cannot be explained that we are putting all those people in social housing as a priority. It's okay to be a little more sober. So we need to think about alternatives, such as empty hospitals, old monasteries, container homes. It must be sober and it must not be at the expense of the stock of social housing. It is also not necessary to give everyone their own home immediately. A student also lives in a dorm for four or five years until he goes to work. These kinds of considerations do require local customization. The discussion on this should be conducted in the city council. The city council will not get involved until we have decided nationally that this group has priority. That is why I proposed last October to delete the primacy rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u21	15 October last year, the VVD Group asked the Minister for this bill. It took the minister 11 months. Now it's there. The only question is, what good is it going to do that nurse? He's been on the waiting list for seven years, but that's gonna be seven years later. Couldn't we have used that time better to make sure that houses are simply built so that the 130,000 people who are waiting for a social housing, all Dutch, can quickly get a house?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u22	There are not so many things that Mr Bashir and I agree on, but this is one of them. There are too few houses in the Netherlands. We're gonna need a build-up. Yeah, I have to. So let me put that question back. Before the summer, we had a debate on Ortec's figures. 37 billion can be invested directly by corporations. The corporations can build 250,000 homes. They can start now, but they won't. Then you should ask me what is wrong in The Hague, so that they do not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u23	An interruption is not usually closed with a second question, but I am giving Mr Bashir the opportunity to ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u24	The nice thing is that the VVD and the PvdA are on the buttons. They can turn that around to make sure that it is being rebuilt. I've got the numbers right here. I'll take a random municipality, in this case the city of The Hague. In 2011, 815 houses were built there. Then Rutte II came to power and 713 homes were built in 2012 and only 34 in 2014. We have dropped from over 800 to 34 new homes in 2014. That will probably be even less in 2015, but I don't have those figures right now. We'll get it later. The VVD and the PvdA could have made it possible to build houses, but they have dealt with symbol legislation, with an A4 piece, which the Minister has taken eleven months to do and which the nurse still has nothing to do with. Couldn't you have used that time better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u25	I can cut this from different angles. We have given the municipalities all the instruments to take decisions at local level. We've been working on living visions. We have, with your support, made more room for local performance agreements. In the largest cities in the Netherlands we have put SP aldermen on residence. I think we've fulfilled all the conditions to get to work now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u26	Mr Van der Linde asked Mr Bashir what is not going well in The Hague, so that there are now too few homes. Then I thought to myself: does Mr. Van der Linde have a moment? There are plenty of other things that play or that contribute to the fact that there is such a huge waiting list. It is already the case that people in Amsterdam are on the waiting list for eleven and a half years and in Utrecht 8 years. Even if we didn't have any status holders in a social rental house, these people would still be on the waiting list for a long time. It would be much better if Mr Van der Linde looked at whether it is not better to work on the causes, to look critically at the landlord's tax or the income limit, so that the nurse, if living with someone, is not even eligible for a social housing. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u27	During the summer het Parool had a beautiful article about an empty apartment in Bos en Lommer, in Amsterdam, which cannot be lost to the pavements. Of course there is a waiting list of eleven years, but everyone wants to live in Amsterdam-Centrum. I'd love to, but I can't afford that. That is the reality. In Amsterdam you can get a great home. We talked about the waiting lists just before the summer. The Minister has at last analysed them carefully at our explicit request and looked at what they look like. Of those waiting lists, only 7% consist of people who are urgent and necessary in search of a home. We have to deal with the system of waiting lists. You're gonna have to finish the waiting list if you've refused a place. Those are the steps we need to take to get the pollution out of those waiting lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u28	Wouldn't it be better if Mr Van der Linde put forward proposals in this direction instead of blaming status holders? I assume that, for example, Bos and Lommer is a social housing unit. What would be against having a status holder housed in it? What does Mr Van der Linde have against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u29	I have no objection to that at all. The purpose of this law is precisely to lay down this power with the municipality and not to cut off thinking about alternative housing. It's very simple. If a status holder can get a social housing priority, then of course he is not going to live in a container house, and perhaps not in an emergency home by Mr De Vries. Then he chooses the terraced house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u30	I've been hearing this argument for a while now, almost a year, and I think that's where she's limping. The municipalities are responsible for housing the status holders. That's a mission that comes from the Empire. If we decide here in The Hague that the 46,400 people from last year mentioned by Mr De Graaf should be housed in the municipality of X, then that municipality must get started. She needs tools to do that. That's what the VNG and the G32 say. This can indeed be achieved by sober housing or by housing in offices that have been converted. That's fine, but this law has nothing to do with it. This law is pure symbolism to sweep the street towards the PVV a bit clean. But the task is there, so the municipalities have to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u31	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u32	Is this true?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u33	Of course, I've heard this before from D66. As far as I'm concerned, we're dealing with two things. 1. We simply cannot explain a rule of priority to the people who it is. I see that Mr Koolmees wishes to intervene again: that is the symbolic policy; it will be fine. 2. This rule of priority prevents us from thinking about alternative housing, and I want that eliminated. If, for whatever reason, a municipality chooses to give priority, then we have to accept that, but that is another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u34	No, the third point is that we decide at national level that it is a task. We give this responsibility to the congregations by saying to them: solve it. The symbol law ensures that there is no room for creative solutions. That's bullshit. Of course, these municipalities are responsible for housing those people, because no one wants to see people sleep on the streets. This legislation is really pure symbol legislation, to score a nice piece in the newspaper, to be a little PVV light. This legislation doesn't solve anything. Even Mr De Vries of the PvdA, the coalition partner of the VVD, says that this is complete symbolic legislation. Why does the VVD go with this symbol?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u35	Then let's go to the hard trade I had with Mr De Vries. Of course, Mr De Vries and his constituents also had a healthy scepticism about this bill, but he has achieved something. Actually, I can continue seamlessly with the rest of my text. In a government agreement between Rijk, VNG and IPO we arrange a subsidy scheme for 14,000 independent housing units, the use of state real estate and the use of knowledge and services of housing corporations. We've got it all figured out. That's the combination. You must ensure that the municipalities are given all the instruments, but you must also ensure that they are not hindered by a priority rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u36	They don't need this law for that at all. That's what municipalities can do. This law doesn't contribute anything to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u37	I keep saying, you don't even get into alternative housing if you maintain a priority rule. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. I referred to Mr De Vries. We all know that the lead time of all the projects that we have now started is good. We have discussed this with the Minister before. However, we see full use being made of the arrangements contained in the administrative agreement. On work visits I also see that entrepreneurs pick up those ideas and are ready to build temporary housing. I hope that the Minister will give us the latest state of play on this matter in the near future. And yes, I hear colleagues are wondering whether this bill is still necessary. During the Presidency of the European Union, the government has done a great deal to reduce the flow of refugees. Perhaps that will remain the case in the coming years. I really hope that my colleagues will be right, but the security situation in North Africa is fragile. The flow of refugees can suddenly increase. If things go wrong, I would like to say that we have thought about everything and we have done everything we can. We're not done with this legislative change. We are now going to delete Article 12 of the Housing Act, which is very clear. Mr Bashir has already said that. As Article 12 instructs municipalities to anchor priority in the local housing regulation, we must indeed do so. The VVD will call on its local politicians to pursue that discussion. My advice will be clear: either you have enough houses in a municipality and then you don't need a priority rule, or you don't have enough houses and then you have to delete the priority rule and start thinking about alternative housing. But in the end this is a matter for municipalities and they need freedom of policy. They shall be kept in full compliance with their mission. This brings me to the point made by Mr Koolmees. Those who cannot or do not wish to perform that task can also approach and pay for another municipality. On the other hand, a driver in a sparsely populated area may be interested in taking in some extra people to fill houses or keep schools open. In any case, I ask the Minister if he is prepared to inform the Chamber in a year's time, so at the end of 2017, about the progress and to indicate in which municipalities that priority has been deleted. We'll settle this point for two reasons. Firstly, we simply cannot explain "priority" anymore, and secondly, this rule prevents us from thinking about alternatives. Let's move on as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u38	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linde's last words were that we cannot explain it anymore. Well, that's convenient, because I'm starting with a quote. "The priority scheme, which has been included in the Housing Act for a long time, is motivated by the consideration that if people are in a COA shelter for a long time, the costs will be on the justice budget and thus on all taxpayers. Moreover, it is very difficult to find work when you are housed in a large-scale shelter. This also applies to language learning. This will be easier if there is accommodation in a municipality. If you take the priority article out of the Housing Act, you will have to ask yourself what you are doing with the filling of asylum seekers' centres and their costs and how you will ensure that people can find work, which means that they will no longer be borne by the community." This is indeed the explanation given ten months ago by Minister Blok of the VVD to Mr Van der Linde's proposal. As far as I am concerned, these are very pragmatic and sensible words, but Mr Van der Linde decided, a little after tickling on my part, to table a motion to delete the status of priority. In fact, my group fully agrees with the wise words the Minister said at the time, because the deletion of urgency is an unwise measure. It is bad for integration, it is bad for language, it is bad for finding work and costs are much higher. You take away people's independence and opportunities and you concentrate refugees in one place. This is also very bad for the support of society. In short, the D66 Group wonders what has changed since the motion was tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u39	Now I'm getting tickled again to make a little interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u40	I can just imagine!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u41	We have that priority rule, but there are now 15,000 people waiting in an azc. Apparently, that rule doesn't work either. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u42	I'm sorry, you'll have to explain this argument, because I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u43	You say that we need that priority rule to put people in place so that they quickly learn the language and integrate quickly, but at the moment 15,000 people are waiting in an azc. Apparently the alternative or the social housing is not sufficient. Then what's the problem there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u44	I started with a very long quote from this minister last year in the budget debate. He says the asylum seekers' centers are full. That's gonna cost a lot of money. Moreover, it is very bad for integration if we remove that priority status. Yes, we have a big task: 15,000 people. If we don't do something, those people will stay in the asylum centre. This is bad for integration and bad for the language and causes very high costs, even for much more costs than that social housing. We have a challenge. Yeah, that's right, and we need to fix it. That's why I'm saying we have to build.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u45	We all know that. We also know there's money to build and it won't happen. What exactly does D66 intend to do from The Hague to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u46	We have agreed to this subsidy scheme for the 14,000. We recently called on the landlord tax assessment to build in the shrinkage areas, for example in Rotterdam-Zuid, with an additional subsidy for the new establishment of houses. Our election programme now includes 100,000 homes that we want to build over the next four to five years, just to do something about those waiting lists and to do something structural about the housing market problem. However, as I have just said in the case of Mr Van er Linde's interruption, this law has nothing to do with it. This law ensures that people get a fair chance and that these people do not have to sleep under the bridge. This law ensures that the COA and the asylum seekers' centre are not overloaded. Those are not my words, therefore, but the words of VVD Minister Blok. What has changed since the motion was filed? Why, in spite of last year's clear words, does the Minister now bring forward this bill? Is this no longer bad for integration? Is it no longer more difficult for status holders to find a job? Is it no longer more difficult to learn the language? Is it no longer more expensive than in an asylum-seekers' centre? We would like to hear the Minister's response to these questions. Many parties are involved in the housing of status holders: the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the provinces, the corporations and the G32, the largest municipalities in the Netherlands. All of these parties criticise this change. Almost all the major municipalities indicate that, given the tasks they have, they will maintain the status of urgency. That is also logical, because that task is imposed on them by the Empire, that is by us. This law does not reduce the number of status holders at all. Then the question arises: what is going to change in practice? As Mr De Vries has just said, in practice, this law does not produce anything at all. The status holders remain here, the targets remain and the waiting lists are not shortened. So this law doesn't solve anything. Only one measure will help against the displacement in the housing market: building. This brings us to the heart of this debate. This law is only there for one reason. That is why the VVD, out of pure electoral fear of the PVV, needs this kind of test balloons in the newspaper to be a little PVV-light. And the Labour Party is just playing along with this game. It legitimizes this exchange, as it were. It throws away its principles of building, something that we all find here in such a deal with the VVD and agrees with this kind of symbolism in Mr De Vries' own words. I don't understand any of that. And the poignant thing is, it's never enough. Accepting this kind of crap doesn't help at all. For example, we have just heard that Mr De Graaf has tabled an amendment in order to be able to go one step further. For the PVV it is never enough, there is always a reason to want more. In this way, we are once again a step further in the implementation of nonsensical policies. And that is only because Mr Van der Linde, the spokesperson of the VVD, did not listen to the sensible and wise words of VVD Minister Blok. If he had, we wouldn't be here right now, because we wouldn't need this symbol law. Mr President, it will not surprise you and the House that the D66 Group has serious objections to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u47	I am always very curious about D66's own ideas. Let's get these 100,000 apartments out. In D66's election programme, they were the greatest surprise to me. D66 enters into central planning of the housing stock. It's 100,000 homes. In my view, that makes it one, so to speak, PvdA-light. My question to Mr Koolmees is: where do these 100,000 homes come from, where do they end up, how is that number built up? How does Mr Koolmees see all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u48	Mr Van der Linde just said in his own contribution that we have all kinds of figures from housing corporations about investment. He himself said there's room for investment for 250,000 homes. We also know that in the coming years 100,000 homes will have to be built to accommodate the target group, low-income people. You know all this; all these figures come from Minister Blok. And those homes cannot be in Amsterdam, nor in Rotterdam, because there are too many of them, but in the rest of the country there will be houses to build. That's a local responsibility. D66 has also agreed to this law, because we believe that this is a local responsibility. Those homes will have to come anyway, in order to accommodate those people who depend on these homes. That's where those 100,000 homes come from. I think this was a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u49	Did I hear right? 100,000 homes, but not in Amsterdam and not in Rotterdam, or the other way around?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u50	No. In recent years Mr Van der Linde and we have concluded the housing agreement with the Minister, because the share of social housing in some parts of the Netherlands is too high. The number of people entitled to a social housing unit is less than the number of social housing units in those municipalities. This applies, for example, to Amsterdam, where 60% of the housing stock concerns social housing and 45% of the people are eligible for it. So that housing market is crooked. We need to do something about that. We're gonna have to build expensive rentals there on average. I agree that there will have to be extra construction there. I also agree immediately that this is a local responsibility. At the same time, I note that due to family changes, due to demographic changes, but also due to migration, in the coming years, 100,000 social housing units will be needed to accommodate that target group. Yeah, so this is our plan. It seems to me to be a very sensible plan. It would be wise for the VVD to join our plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u51	So we're planning it centrally, aren't we? That's what we agreed on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u52	No, I just said it's a local responsibility. That does not mean, however, that we have no responsibility for this in The Hague, because we must ensure that it is done. We also have a responsibility to the municipalities in The Hague. If we impose a task on municipalities to house status holders, we must also give them the tools to carry it out properly and carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u53	Mr. Chairman. Nearly 15,000 status holders currently live in asylum seekers' centres and are waiting for a home. They want what everyone wants: their own place to build their lives. Often, however, there is no home for them. Dutch house seekers can talk about that. In 2011, before the start of the increased refugee influx, the average waiting periods for a social rental house had been in Amsterdam for 11.5 years and 8.2 years in Utrecht. It is therefore not surprising that no one, except perhaps the PVV, is really excited about this bill. The Council of State, the VNG, the IPO, the College of Human Rights: they all share the criticism that this bill does not actually solve anything. In fact, the problem of the housing shortage is being thrown over the fence in the municipalities. Municipalities are allowed to fight with their municipal council if there is still an emergency status for refugees at municipal level. After all, the task of housing refugees per municipality remains. How should municipalities house these people in time without maintaining an emergency status? Municipalities have to house 46,400 status holders this year, but are already lagging behind. In the first half of 2016, a total of 18.089 status holders were housed; that is more than half. In reply to this question, the Minister seems to say: build up special housing for refugees. These are undoubtedly the container houses the cabinet came up with earlier. However, what is the legal situation? Can you force a refugee to accept a container house or shared home? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. If municipalities are to fill areas with container houses on a large scale, is this not detrimental to the integration that the cabinet is demanding for refugees? Does it not help to integrate refugees into normal, mixed neighbourhoods? I told you, this bill doesn't solve anything and certainly not the housing shortage. 150,000 new social rentals are needed in the next cabinet period. The cabinet offers little plans to realize its construction. It is good that the Minister has plans for a discount on the landlord's tax, but that must be more than the €20,000 per house. In addition, the Minister wants to shape the tax reduction for new construction in a budget-neutral way, which means that it should not result in any less for the Treasury. Net will therefore continue to be taken out of the sector every year for the Treasury. That's less than 2 billion a year to build new social housing. Why shouldn't solving the huge shortage of social housing not cost a cent? The provision of adequate housing is, after all, a central task of the government. This is enshrined in the Constitution. The Minister has greatly reduced the shortage of social housing under his reign. This bill suggests that this would be due to the large number of refugees to be housed. However, the Minister himself creates a problem and then implicitly blames the refugees. It goes without saying that GroenLinks will not participate in this piece of symbol legislation. Instead, it wants to focus on the real cause of the shortage of social housing, which lies with the Minister and his VVD. I ask the Minister to stop this policy and come up with an ambitious investment agenda. This must now be started so that the next cabinet can really close the gap between what is needed and the current housing market. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to fill in the remainder of his term of office usefully and to table with housing corporations and municipalities to draw up such an ambitious agenda. That seems to my group to be better than passing symbol laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u54	Finally, we are going to listen to the last speaker from the Chamber, Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u55	Mr. Chairman. In October 2015, the CDA already pointed out that it is important to ensure that the housing allocation system continues to work for the current housing seekers in the social rental sector who have been on the waiting list for a long time. The CDA fears further displacement in the housing market if a solution to the housing problems of status holders is not quickly found. The abolition of automatic emergency status for status holders is therefore a step in the right direction. But we do not think that this first step will be sufficient. If sufficient alternative accommodation for licence holders is not achieved, displacement will continue to exist. After all, the task of municipalities to house status holders remains. On what basis does the Minister base the claim that the additional measures to combat the problem of displacement are sufficient? The CDA believes that, on the contrary, too little is being done to combat displacement. That is the most painful thing for the people who have been on a waiting list for years. The CDA Group believes that efforts to achieve alternative accommodation for licence holders should be parallel to the impact of this bill. We don't see enough of that. Can the Minister clarify? This concerns not only the current licence holders, but also the new licence holders, including the follow-up passengers. The actual impact of the legislative proposal takes place at local level, if a decision is taken in the city council on whether or not to maintain priority for licence holders. The city council is free to do this at a time when it will come true. Can the Minister outline the situation that will arise if municipalities do not adopt a priority scheme for licence holders, but the Minister does place the mandate to house an x number of licence holders with the municipalities? The municipalities simply have to fulfil the housing task. Does the Minister also think there's a problem here? We wonder if this is not a sham solution. The measures contained in the administrative agreement are not permanent. The Council of State raises critical questions regarding the fundamental right of equal treatment. We share the Minister's argument. On the contrary, the bill abolishes a legally binding distinction between groups of house seekers. The result of the proposal is that municipalities can decide for themselves the position of licence holders vis-à-vis other property seekers. Municipalities are very well able to decide for themselves whether licence holders or other target groups are designated in the municipal regulation for an urgent status. It is precisely in order to maintain support for the policy and for the acceptance of the priority status that it is good to prevent regular house seekers from finding social housing after a very long time. The CDA has tabled an amendment to ensure that the need for housing for seekers not designated as urgent is met in such a way that the adverse effects of the application of the urgency status are minimised for them as much as possible. Setting up an emergency status is intended to help people with priority and fast. However, if the inflow becomes so large that an excessive flow occurs, the system will no longer work. That's the problem. We are positive about the new paragraph of Article 12 of the Housing Act. The purpose of the new paragraph is to ensure that the City Council determines in the Housing Regulation the manner in which the assignment is to be carried out. However, this applies only to municipalities where the city council has adopted a housing regulation which lays down a priority scheme. The question is what is the position of municipalities that do not have housing regulations. In short, the CDA is positive about the change in the law, but is still not sufficiently convinced that municipalities are actually able to achieve alternative accommodation for licence holders, including the followers. If there is no certainty about this, the effect of displacement will remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u56	We have come to the end of the Court's contribution in the first term. The Minister has indicated that he is able to answer immediately. We're going to listen to that answer now. I'd be happy to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u57	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the questions that various spokesmen have asked, I will first give a reflection on the why of this law. That was a question I belonged to every spokesperson. In fact, every law is a definition of those rules that a society considers fair. It is also considered necessary to lay down these rules in a law. We are making this commitment in a democratic manner in the Netherlands. It was in this case an invitation from the Chamber in the form of a motion. The law itself, however, still has to be provided with a majority in the First and Second Chambers. So we are doing so democratically, and we are doing so within the margins set by our Constitution and by international treaties. When I look at the sense of justice about the reception of refugees in the Netherlands, I can see that, fortunately, there is broad support for the reception of those who are really looking for a safe country for their protection. The overwhelming majority of the Dutch and also the Dutch government say that they want to offer these people a place. We have also signed treaties for this. This sense of justice in the Netherlands also means that people are suspicious of priority schemes, whatever their nature, and then ask the question very sharply: is there really a reason for priority? It is not for nothing that the first article of our Constitution actually says: priority not unless there are very special, so unequal, cases. This sense of justice plays a prominent role in today's highly emotional debate on the reception of refugees. That emotion was felt again this afternoon. This sense of justice gives the whole of the Netherlands, and the majority of the House which supported the motion, that priority is not necessary to receive refugees in a decent, humane manner. That's the main task we'd like to do. The Constitution and the relevant treaties - those are the Refugee Convention and the Qualifications Directive - are also all about equal treatment. They don't talk about a right of priority. The follow-up question is: why now? I am very grateful to Mr Koolmees for mentioning my words wisely about this. I'm not gonna argue with that. He asked, "What changed now?" There's been a lot of changes. Indeed, an administrative agreement has been concluded by now. A large number of measures have been developed. The subsidy scheme we set up works. I will go into the figures later in my reply. In the same budgetary treatment, the PvdA Group asked me to provide an incentive for the building of cheap social housing. Mr De Vries has rightly pointed this out. I was reluctant in that debate about both motions. I said: I really need to be able to assess the impact on the budget and its feasibility. That's what I've been able to do. I have been able to consult with the VNG and other institutions. I have not received applause everywhere, but I have received the message that the law is enforceable in this way. That's in the new article Mr. Ronnes pointed out, among other things. So much has indeed changed in relation to last year's situation. Against this background, I go into the various questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u58	Before proceeding, Mr Koolmees would like to ask another question about your introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u59	If I'm being honest, I think it's a bit of a circular argument. We also had this little debate last year, when we discussed the budget. At that time, everyone in the Chamber thought that solutions should simply be found for housing status holders. So there had to be construction, there had to be administrative agreements. And now the Minister says, because that's what happened, we can file this law. To be honest, I find that strange. Last year, during the debate, the Minister said that he was not in favour of it, because it was bad for integration, for language and for work, and it was even more expensive. Those reasons are still there, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u60	If sticking around in an asylum seekers' centre was the only option, Mr Koolmees would be right. Indeed, for finding work, learning the language and integration, it is better not to live in an asylum-seekers' centre all together. Because we have been able to take the whole package of measures I mentioned, the outflow is being promoted. Those measures work too. The reaction I gave in the same debate on the motion was therefore: I need time to assess the effects and to consult with those concerned about the effects. That's why I didn't recommend the motion. I have now been able to do so, and that has led to the proposal before us. This is a fundamentally different situation from that of the budget debate almost a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u61	The Minister has taken all kinds of measures to ensure that people can be housed, for which he pays tribute. D66 very much agrees. That has made this law superfluous. That is what all the people who have consulted the minister say: the VNG, the provinces, the G32 and the housing corporations themselves. The most important point is that we must ensure that people are housed. That has a reason: these people are from abroad and have not been able to build a past on a waiting list. So they need a little support to integrate, to learn the language and to participate in society. The Minister is actually saying afterwards: we have made policies to solve this problem, namely that they stayed in asylum-seekers' centres, and that is why we are proposing this law. That is, of course, a strange argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u62	It is not in question that people who claim refugee status here for good reasons should be able to use facilities such as decent housing, education, health care and all the other facilities we have in the Netherlands at world-class level. What is under discussion is whether a priority arrangement is needed, to which treaties do not oblige us, but which gives rise to great feelings of injustice in a large part of the population. These feelings are understandable in a country that is so attached to equal treatment that Article 1 of the Constitution deals with them. Mr Ronnes was right to add: if you neglect those feelings for too long, then the main task will be supported, where the cabinet and also Mr Koolmees absolutely do not want to torment, namely that when people seek protection, we want to offer them the same in the Netherlands. If, in fact, those feelings of justice are harmed by a primacy clause, it is therefore right to say that now that we have made it possible to move on to housing with other measures, we no longer need to maintain the primacy clause in the law. Mr de Vries stressed that the right to housing would continue to apply in full. I agree with him. He is right to link his motion to the execution of his motion. I hope to table an amendment to the landlord tax law this month, which will encourage the construction of cheap social housing. Mr Bashir began with a speech on the length of time for the preparation of this law. When Mr Bashir comes up with figures, he is used to me putting figures against them. Mr Bashir spoke about 11 months of preparation. The Chamber got the bill from me for the summer. It is, of course, always up to the Chamber when a bill is dealt with, but those eleven months we are going to divide fifty-fifty according to the principle of equal monks, equal hoods; according to capacity, I shall say. Mr Bashir pointed to a statistical shortage of housing. It is absolutely true that there are in some places housing shortages. Hence a whole package of measures aimed at this. I would like to mention, for example, the adjustment of the landlord levy. There are two things to be seen from the studies that I carried out before the summer holidays on the waiting list, at the request of Mr Bashir, and from the research that I carried out at the request of the municipalities. A lot of comments fit the waiting lists. There's a very large group of people who aren't looking actively. In very large parts of the country there are hardly any waiting lists. I was in Twente recently. There are waiting lists in the housing of status holders really no problem. There's a very large group of people who aren't looking actively. Of those who are looking, only a very small part is looking actively, for example in connection with work. A very large part is looking for better living quality. These are the people who live in the Bijlmer and hope for a dwelling in the Jordan. That's okay with me, but it's not housing shortage, it's ambition to find a better home. I am not concerned about the investment area, because the calculations I have shared with the Chamber show that there is indeed room for either building more than 200,000 additional homes, or a significant boost in quality improvement, or, if chosen locally, limiting rent increases. So there is absolutely room to build, but it is a local consideration what and at what rate is being built. Mr Bashir asked why most licence holders end up in cities. The distribution mechanism for assigning status holders to municipalities is based purely on the number of inhabitants. Cities have more inhabitants than villages. Mr Bashir knows that I have discussed with the VNG whether another distribution system would work, for example, coupled with the availability of housing. There was broad agreement that this would not help, because there is also a shortage of jobs in areas with surplus housing. Then you create another problem. A municipality with a tight housing market is free to make arrangements with a municipality with a larger housing market. The second fact is that many status holders themselves go to the cities. During my conversation in Twente I also heard examples of status holders who said: thank you for the house in one of those beautiful Twente villages, but I'm going to Amsterdam as soon as possible. I cannot prevent that from happening in a free country. That's their choice. First of all, Mr De Graaf said that the cabinet should focus on reducing the influx of asylum. That's what happened. Our Prime Minister has played a crucial role in making agreements in a European context with Turkey. The influx is now much lower than when we had this debate about a year ago. Mr De Graaf further asked whether this law now legally anchors the agreements in the administrative agreement. A number of agreements in the administrative agreement have already been legally anchored, for example the space for housing corporations to manage buildings which they do not own, and the agreement that, in the case of self-employed housing, affordable sober living space, rental contracts may be concluded for a period of five years. That was a request from the housing corporations and is also laid down by law. The subsidy scheme is not so much laid down by law, but, as part of a subsidy scheme, it is properly laid down. This law itself is not part of the administrative agreement, but the agreements I have just mentioned make it possible for me to present this law in this way. Mr De Graaf referred to the COA, the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers, as a state within the State. I want to make it very clear here for the COA. There are a lot of people working very hard on our assignment. We, the cabinet, have not received any other mandate from the Chamber in this area, so the COA is not a state in the state, they are hard-working people who do their work on behalf of my colleagues and me. Mr De Graaf has tabled an amendment to remove the mandate for municipalities from the law. Municipalities that do not include a priority scheme in the Housing Regulation should indicate how they house status holders if they do not do so through the Housing Regulation. I must advise against that amendment. For the record: about half of the municipalities have such a housing regulation. So a lot of municipalities don't have such a tense housing market at all. These are municipalities that do have a tense housing market. As a municipality that does have such a mission, that does not include in the housing regulation, it is logical that that municipality should indicate how it will meet that mission, but that is customization. That was also part of my conversation with the municipalities. We have finally found each other and it is therefore feasible. I must therefore reject Mr De Graaf's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u63	That is the amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u64	Mr Van der Linde asked about the state of play with regard to the subsidy scheme. There are currently 21% of the more than 87 million applications available for concrete projects. That means living space for over 2,900 licence holders. In more than half of the cases, these applications concern the conversion of existing buildings. This is in itself a social gain because it gives empty real estate a destination. Two-thirds of the applications come from private house vectors and one-third from housing corporations. The interest of the private sector is clearly greater. To be honest, that is a matter for me, but it indicates that the regulation responds clearly to the question. The use is actually time-effective. The scheme is available until the end of 2018. Mr Van der Linde asks me to give an idea of the extent to which the law is being used and how municipalities deal with it by the end of 2018. I'd be happy to. I have to ask out those data, but it makes sense for us to keep our finger on the wrist here, too. Mr Koolmees referred to my wise words. I already thanked him for that. I have indicated what has changed since the moment I spoke those words. A whole package of measures has come into force and I have been able to discuss them. That combination makes it a responsible and correct choice for me to refer the law to the Chamber in this way. Mrs. Voortman asks me...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u65	The debate started a little later than planned. Mrs Voortman had other obligations which meant that she had to leave the debate. She's the one who told me that her associates are listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u66	I'll answer her questions so she can read back the answers. Her first question was how municipalities can house people without a prioritization in the housing regulation. That is actually the actual situation in about half of the Dutch municipalities. They are able to fill that out locally. Municipalities which now have a housing regulation are given the possibility by this law either to regulate it again by means of a housing regulation or in another way. In fact, municipalities get a larger toolbox to deliver local customization. Mrs Voortman asked whether it is legally permitted to house refugees in a shared home. That is allowed for Dutch people who were born in Oostknollendam and that is also allowed for people in other countries. I started my own living career like this. To be honest, I also think it's healthy that you use hard work and save a bit of living space as well. Mrs Voortman asks if there is any risk of isolated complexes, she called it container complexes. All the municipalities and corporations that I have talked about are firmly of the opinion that they do not want to do so. If you provide sober living space it is in the interests of everyone that they are mixed complexes. In Amsterdam, the container house has been widely used for students for decades to maintain that term. Those housing corporations now use these complexes partly for students and partly for status holders. I see the same commitment in projects where existing buildings are being converted for shared housing. Mrs Voortman asked why the construction of social housing should not cost money. She could never have heard that statement from me. The construction of social housing costs money. The uneconomic summit, as it is so beautifully called, is €60,000. The studies I referred to in the reply to Mr Bashir indicate that housing corporations in the Netherlands, including those uneconomic summits, are still able to build social housing on a large scale if there is a demand for them. Mr Ronnes thinks that the law is a good step in itself. He asked whether the measures taken by the cabinet were sufficient. I said that the subsidy scheme is widely used. I can't centrally track how many bottlenecks there are in which municipalities. Eventually, you follow that on a national level. There are, of course, great differences. There are municipalities where the housing market was already tight and there are municipalities where it is spacious. The reason why we have taken additional measures is, of course, that where the market is tight, municipalities can take additional measures. In time that will never exactly coincide, because this new building just needs a little time. The subsidies that are now being applied for are now leading to additional construction activities. So those homes are gonna be out in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u67	Is it possible to inform the Chamber of the state of play at the beginning of October? I would also like to ask to what extent the Minister is convinced that the measures that have now been taken are sufficient for the followers who are coming. A notice has recently been published stating that the procedure is expected to last around eight months for passengers. So count out what period that's about to fall. Are we ready then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u68	A report in October can of course get to the Chamber. As far as travel is concerned, this is part of the forecasts of the need for housing that the Chamber receives periodically. The prognosis for the second half of 2016 has been given to the Chamber. The forecast for 2017 will be made this autumn. I now have no reason to believe that these forecasts for 2017 are suddenly going to give rise to a finding that the measures are not sufficient. But if they are going to point that out, then we can talk about it again at that time. Finally, I come to Mr Ronnes' amendment, which invites the municipalities to indicate how they want to avoid displacement. From the explanatory statement, I understand that a municipality can provide customised services. A municipality can therefore say: new construction is at issue in this municipality. Another municipality can say: there is no need for new construction here, because we focus on better flow, cultivation or another instrument. Since the amendment leaves room for customization to municipalities, I can leave the amendment to the discretion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u69	This is about the amendment to item No. 7. The Minister therefore leaves the opinion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u70	I hope that I have answered the questions raised in the first term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u71	Thank you very much. We'll go straight to the second term. All spokesmen have two minutes' speaking time in that. I see that Mr Albert de Vries is abandoning his second term. I call Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u72	Mr President, I am even holding it for less than two minutes. Then we can really get to work after that. I'll file the next motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Minister for Housing and National Service to stop symbolising legislation and do what he has been appointed to do, namely to ensure that housing is sufficiently affordable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34454-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u73	Mr. Chairman. I have one small point to make. I asked the Minister to send a report by the end of 2017 on the state of play of the priority regime per municipality. He has given a generous undertaking to do so, but I heard him talk about "2018." I hope he wants to do that by the end of 2017. Again, the accommodation of licence holders is on the board of the ordinary Dutchman and he does not think this priority arrangement is fair. That's the main incentive to come up with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u74	Mr. Chairman. The Minister and also Mr Van der Linde spoke of a sense of justice, of 'unfair'. There is, of course, a reason for this arrangement. People who come from outside the Netherlands and are status holders here have no living history. They've never been on a waiting list before, so they don't really have a chance to get in the middle of it. This does not give them a real chance to build a life, to learn a language, to work, to participate in society. It is important that people do participate in society, not only to prevent an explosion of assistance, but also to prevent the asylum seekers' centres from remaining full. Last year, at its peak, 14% of the homes released were allocated to status holders. 86% was therefore not allocated to status holders. In normal years, 6% of the dwellings released are allocated. This is particularly important because the task of the municipalities remains unchanged. In other words, municipalities are now going to build to get rid of the waiting lists, which is very good and D66 is very much in favour of this, but the task of housing the status holders is simply there. That sense of justice will therefore not be removed. Yes, the waiting lists are being solved, and rightly so. In conclusion, we are looking at a bad play, at symbolism of the VVD. It is also bad symbolism, because it does not work. The PvdA goes along, in a sort of exchange of principles and out of pragmatism. I'm disappointed by the Labour Party. Actually, the Minister feels the same way. That is what he said last October during the budget debate. Then he explained to her nicely that he found this symbolism. So it's a play.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u75	Do you think it is right to speak to the Labour Party about principles? I share that pragmatism. You even took over our plans. Your election programme contains exactly what we have always promoted: building 100,000 homes. What is the matter of principle here? You yourself say that this bill has nothing to do with it and that the mission remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u76	I believe that Mr De Vries himself referred to Article 1 of the Constitution. It was one of the very first sentences of his input. I know the Labour Party as a party that stands for the integration of people, for language learning, for jobs, for participation in society, for preventing an explosion of assistance. I immediately agree with Mr De Vries that, over the past year, we have also pulled the rope on the same side of the rope that needs to be built in order to solve the task. That's what needs to be done. That's why our election program includes 100,000 homes. Mr De Vries says in his own contribution today that he has succeeded and that is a good thing, and the law now before us is merely symbolic, but we must give it to the VVD. Explaining why integration and work are so important, Mr De Vries completely rejects this law. I find that reprehensible. I think the Labour Party should defend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u77	That is where Mr Koolmees follows a crooked reasoning. He says that the bill has nothing to do with it because the mission remains and housing and integration of these people should simply take place. Municipalities can decide for themselves whether or not to take it out of their regulations. We agree on all fronts, we also agree that it is a futility that has nothing to do with it. Let's stop beating each other up. I have the feeling that D66 and the Labour Party are in total agreement on this point. We only vote differently for practical reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u78	There is one big difference: we agree 100% on the content and the measures, but D66 considers it important that we explain why we have such measures in the Netherlands, why we have such a priority status, precisely in order to avoid that we have learned from the past that people remain on the sidelines. As soon as possible integrate into Dutch society, learn the language as soon as possible, participate as soon as possible. By moving along with this symbol law, which has been fully applied by PVV positions taken over by the VVD, the Labour Party gives in to those views, and I find that reprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u79	I have now heard about 20, 30 times that it is symbolic politics; I am all fine with it. In spring 2015, we came up with a coherent plan to do something about the influx of refugees. Then D66 could only tweet: ugh, ugh, ugh. Last year I came up with this point. Then Mr Koolmees came up with the story: that's a test balloon; we'll never hear of that again. And now there is this proposal. In spring 2016, Mr Pechtold complained that there was no national-wide programme, but D66 did not want to come up with an idea. In fact, Mr Pechtold said: sometimes it is good to retreat in the eye of the hurricane. Mr Koolmees talks all the time about what we think and what we do. He talks about the PVV, the VVD and the PvdA, but what did D66 contribute to this discussion? What ideas did D66 come up with to address the housing of refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u80	D66 has wholeheartedly supported the housing agreement concluded under this Minister. D66 has wholeheartedly supported the landlord's tax, with the discounts, to ensure that the social housing in the Netherlands is accessible to the target group. Over the past year we have been building together to solve problems, to make sure that the waiting lists are shorter and to allow transit to the middle rental. We participate in solving real problems, but we do not participate in symbolic politics to clean up your own right-hand street and to score nicely. We do participate in solving problems, eliminating waiting lists, and ensuring that people who get a residence status here in the Netherlands for five years integrate into Dutch society. We've all learned from the past. It went wrong; people didn't learn the language, they didn't integrate and they did stay on welfare for ten years. When the VVD asks if we want to deal with these things, we are happy to participate, but we do not participate in symbol politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u81	Mr. Chairman. The Air Balloon of the Labour Party to build 100,000 new homes in the short term has already exploded. Arrangements have been put in place to encourage the construction of additional dwellings, but only 21% of the funds available have been requested. We remain curious about what is still concrete in the pipeline. Is that actually going to result in the construction of new homes? The CDA has previously called for an evaluation of these arrangements. At the time, the Minister thought it was a little too early, because at that time only 12% of the available funds had been used. That was before the recess. Maybe it's okay to run a quick scan in the short term? Are all these measures so good? We receive a lot of reactions from the field. This shows that it is very difficult to use the arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u82	There's been one motion filed. The Minister states that he can immediately start his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u83	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bashir has tabled a motion calling on me to stop legislation on symbolism and to do what I have been appointed to do, namely to ensure that housing is sufficiently affordable. We provide affordable housing through a large number of instruments. There is a large state guarantee for the social rental sector. We spend more than 3 billion in rent payments to ensure that the huge number of high-income people living in a social housing unit is stimulated to flow through, or at least pay a real contribution by introducing the income-dependent rent increase. That constitutional task is therefore actually carried out through a larger package of measures than has been the case for many years. That makes the motion unnecessary. That's why I'm dissuading her. Mr Van der Linde asked if the report on the use of this law could come at the end of 2017. I seem to have said 2018, but 2017 seems feasible for an initial indication. Mr Koolmees said that I was wrong to say that there is equal treatment in the case of status holders. Among other things, he indicated that they did not have the opportunity to build waiting periods. This is in itself a justified observation, but it does not put status holders all in a different position compared to other Dutch people. The majority of the status holders are young and single. The average young single Dutchman also has no or hardly any waiting time. In the municipalities which have priority for people with work, with economic link, a status holder can use this route as much as any other resident of the Netherlands. In case of scarcity, I think that is one of the best routes to allocate homes. Of course, status holders have a big language disadvantage, but anyone who visits a distribution centre, a production company or a greenhouse will find that a lot of people there are very hard at work who unfortunately do not speak Dutch, but are well able to do that work. Also along that route, a status holder like other residents of the Netherlands can say: I have a job and economic bond, so I can be eligible for a social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u84	I was triggered by this remark. Does the Minister no longer think that learning the Dutch language is an important policy objective?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u85	I even said that if I am in such a production company or such a greenhouse, I regret to say that many people there don't speak Dutch, but that it doesn't stop those people from doing that job anyway. It's even good for learning Dutch to be at work.Luckily, there are also Dutch people running around the world to learn the language working on it. The crux for me is that, if necessary, this priority regime can be invoked along that route in municipalities that know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u86	I understand that, but it was this minister who said less than ten months ago in the budget debate that it is so important that status holders learn the language to integrate and participate. That is why I was surprised that the Minister used this route as an argument in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u87	The language remains equally important and can best be learned by combining it with work. Mr Koolmees pointed out that, on the basis of the figures of housing corporations, 14% of the allocations of freed-up housing were to status holders. Although this is a significant part, it is clear at the same time. When you put your ear in the country to listen, you notice that there are places with little turnover. Think for example of small cores, where let's say twice a year a house is released. Then it puts a lot of pressure on that. Then there are also very strong feelings of justice which I took up at the beginning of my speech. Mr Ronnes went into the question of the subsidy scheme and said that only 21% had been applied for. That's time-saving. For me, that's no cause for concern. The scheme will run until the end of 2018. An application will generally be submitted as soon as there is real insight into the possibility of changing the destination of the property. This often takes some time in the Netherlands. I have just promised Mr Ronnes that he will return to his position in October. If this leads to a further discussion, then we will keep it in the budgetary procedure, or at any other time that the Chamber so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-16.u88	This brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill. The votes on the motion, the two amendments and the legislative proposal will be taken on board at the next voting time. This Tuesday there will be no regular votes because of Princess Day. I would like to thank the spokesmen very much for their cooperation. We therefore have plenty of time for dinner break. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply.
