ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Measuring is knowing. In balancing a highway, maintaining a nature reserve, perhaps creating space for a residential area or building not so close to the highway, the protection of the journey time gain is so calculated, but the effects on the environment, health or air quality are not just to be estimated. That is why D66 considers the instrument of environmental impact assessment to be so incredibly important. We need to weigh all these interests against each other in a good way in order to reach the best decision. Such an environmental impact assessment, it is a technical word, actually provides an independent factual basis on which you can discuss whether the impact that a particular project has on the environment or health outweighs its benefits. So it is an extremely important instrument. As far as D66 is concerned, we should not discourage and make it difficult to use it, but encourage it where it is useful. That's why D66, together with the Christian Union, has worked hard to secure the EIA in the new Environmental Act. We didn't get to all the points with the minister. We support this proposal on the main lines, but we still have a number of important points to focus on. The reaction to this will ultimately determine our judgment. I'll start with the E.R. myself. We are trying to reduce the administrative burden on business. That is why D66 understands that the Minister says: only relevant environmental factors need to be described in the EIA, not all of them. That fits in: yes, we have to do it where it is useful. I don't think that's such a crazy idea at all. You want the points where significant effects can be expected to be described and protected, but a problem arises when the minister says that the competent authority then determines which environmental factors are precisely relevant to an activity. Does this change result from the revision of the European directive on this point? If not, why does the Minister choose to change this? Isn't that a headline on European policy? How does the competent authority determine where significant effects can be expected? If you take that as a guide to determining its usefulness, how do you ensure that the competent authority has the information to determine where to expect those significant effects? If the competent authority is to determine which environmental factors are relevant, does this not increase the risk of objection and appeal? After all, there may be disagreement as to why the one factor was or was not taken into account. How are we gonna prevent that? I would also like to know what it will look like in practice if the competent authority is also the initiator and therefore has different interests. Can the Minister explain how she intends to avoid conflict of interest? I am referring to the question of which environmental factors are taken into account in the EIA. We will come back later to another possible point of conflict of interest and the fight against it. One of the points of concern in the handling of the Environment Act is that it removes the obligation to review it, thanks to the Minister and her support officials for the cooperation on this difficult and complex dossier. The competent authority may decide whether or not to allow the EIA to be reviewed by the committee. Again, that fits in a certain movement for which D66 is also sensitive: do it where it is useful. But an independent review has enormous added value, especially if the competent authority itself is the initiator. In that case, does the Minister see the risk of conflict of interest? How exactly does it see fit when the competent authority creates an appropriate separation between conflicting functions in the official preparation of such a decision? Everyone understands that there's something wrong there. How do you do that? The Minister does not choose to lay down that separation of roles in the law. But then, of course, you run the least risk. Is the Minister thinking of a divorce at the administrative level or also of a separation at the administrative level? Those are two levels where you need to think carefully about how to organize that. Instead of being enshrined in the law, the Minister seeks to address this risk by drawing up a hand-out or a model regulation. Is that what she's trying to do, or is she just gonna do it? Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the Chamber? Who then checks that all this is well arranged? If we leave a great deal to the competent authority, can it not lead to appeals and appeals about these kinds of choices in a process? Maybe the Minister wants that opportunity to exist. Then how does she ensure that people who have an interest in this can handle it carefully? The government says that when it comes to activities covered by the Crisis and Recovery Act, the competent authority may decide the Commission for the m.e.r. enable if it deems it necessary. What about activities not covered by the Crisis and Recovery Act? D66 therefore wants the Commission to take action before the end of the year. can be used to assess the EIA, even if the competent authority considers the EIA sufficient in itself, just in case one wants to have an additional check: the four-eyed principle. This can sometimes be the case with small municipalities that are wondering: have we done well? And: we'd rather check it out in advance than after? Can we do that outside the Crisis and Recovery Act? Can we make this possible together? The competent authority will also decide, through a permit or a decision, whether and, if so, what parameters should be used to monitor the environmental impact. The Minister writes that monitoring of environmental impacts will thus become more tailor-made and can thus be used more effectively. I understand that we are trying to cut and apply these instruments together in such a way that we can use them usefully and not lead to unnecessary administrative burdens. I'm looking with the minister for a way to do that right. But I have another question about the implementation of the monitoring measures. After all, the costs of implementation shift from the competent authority to the initiator of the project. In her explanatory statement, the Minister says that the costs are getting a little lower because there are no more monitoring on all points, but it remains a shift from the burden of the competent authority to the initiator. Is that not an increase in the administrative burden on companies? Why does the Minister move these? Is that a choice of the cabinet or is it automatically based on the directive? The shift of responsibilities also raises a number of questions. How do you ensure an independent report on environmental impacts if the initiator has a direct interest in a positive outcome of such a report? How does a specific initiator deal with a accumulation of effects? How are we going to ensure that monitoring data can be compared if everyone can decide for themselves how to do that? What about the disclosure of the monitoring data? The aim is to prevent us, by trying to lighten well-meaning things, from actually creating many obstacles and appeals again. We must prevent it from unintentionally leading to legal proceedings or procedures that you could actually avoid, which could also save time. D66 agrees with the situation of no longer having an obligation to monitor all the effects of all EIA-related activities. But is the Minister prepared to come up with a number of hand-outs to avoid conflict of interest? D66 attaches importance to ensuring that monitoring is always carried out in the case of environmental aspects with a significant impact to be expected. Does the Minister agree with D66 and can she take care of this? Then I come to the final point. The EIA Directive provides for the possibility, in exceptional cases, of exempting the provision in the Directive, namely "where application of the Directive would have adverse effects on the project's purpose." How wide is that possibility exactly? This looks like a huge door that can be opened. In what cases will it be possible to derogate from the directive? With what possible consequences? What about the monitoring? What about all the other aspects that we have raised? In conclusion, we have tabled a number of amendments. Some of my fellow Members have done the same and I sometimes see these amendments moving in the same direction. I would like to look with colleagues later at where we can support each other's initiatives or put them together. I share with the Minister the search for ways in which we can make things smarter. However, let us ensure that it really gets better rather than that it actually only leads to more appeal procedures that we could avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u3	The EIA Directive is quite a complicated subject; there is a lot of technology in it. When I sum up Mrs van Veldhoven's story, it seems to me as if she is saying to the big companies: that authority has a certain role and I do not have the complete confidence in it. I'm gonna put some extra rules in that directive to have confidence that it's gonna be okay. But where that competent authority operates, doesn't it just control through a city council at a municipality and through provincial states at a county? Isn't there enough safeguards in our system to prevent things from happening that we don't want them to happen? Is it not right that we should have an EIA directive as simple as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u4	I see there are all kinds of choices. We are trying to simplify the entire system of environmental law and to save time. Then it is important that stakeholders can always stand up for their side of the story when an important choice is made. The more choices you build in and the more you leave them to the competent authority, the more the competent authority will have to argue the choices it has made in them. That could be at the expense of speed. I am therefore asking whether the degree of freedom we are giving now will ultimately produce the best result for what we want, namely that we measure and check what is useful and that we do not do so when we do not have to. We could do a hand-out by limiting the number of free choice options. This would give a little more certainty to the competent authority, which now has almost no frameworks on the basis of which it can establish that it has taken a good decision. This can lead to lengthy procedures again, and that is not what we intend to do with the entire exercise of the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u5	I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven on that last point. That is why we discussed with each other our desire for municipalities and provinces to invest much more at the front in support and much more at the front with all stakeholders. This is without prejudice to the need to keep the EIA Directive simple and to keep the choice to be made in it as simple as possible. I get the impression that Mrs Van Veldhoven wants to regulate things completely again, so that the freedom of choice that we try to give to municipalities, among other things, disappears.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u6	I think that Mr Veldman is putting his head in the sand with regard to the possible risks. The essence is that we want to see whether we can make the procedures of the Environment Act simpler and, above all, faster. The more choices you leave to the competent authority, the more choices there are again apple labels. That could lengthen things a lot. I think sometimes the competent authority would like some kind of hand-out. In the area of conflict of interest, the Minister herself states that she wants to come up with something, because she also sees that otherwise it will be very difficult to determine in advance when you are doing well. I like to think along, but there are a number of risks involved. We should not close our eyes to that; I would really like to give that to Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. I find myself almost seamless in the speech of the D66 spokesperson. We were asked to conclude this debate as efficiently and as quickly as possible within our democratic powers. So I will not repeat those points. GroenLinks often defends the weak, green values that no interest group or project developer is behind and which the city council members do not always think of first. If you look at the whole new system of the Environmental Law and this EIA Directive, you will find that the Environmental Law no longer lays down minimum environmental standards. As Mrs Van Veldhoven said, this does not mean that there is a clear anchor point that can be tested in municipalities. The competent authority shall determine where significant effects may occur. For banks, we have stress tests. I used the example of wastewater, the injection of mining, for my own stress test. Suppose we already had the Environment Act without minimum standards and we got a request from the NAM to inject toxic waste water after it came through a pipeline from Drenthe to Overijssel. Would the competent authority have said (a) 'there are significant effects; we want an environmental impact assessment, we want this to be monitored and that the data relating to that monitor are public', or would it be said (b) 'there are no significant effects to be expected'? I can tell you, I would like to hear it from the Minister if it is not the case that it would be said that there would be no significant effects to be expected. That theorem has been used until very large leakages and cases of contamination have been detected in Twente. As soon as you discover those pollution and leakages, evil has already happened, the poison is in the ground and it is very difficult and costly to stop the oil extraction process. Reverting something like that the moment you find it is very complicated. I share with Mrs Van Veldhoven that it is difficult to determine which significant effects should be taken into account. In the case of gas and oil extraction, we thought at first that there would be no soil decline and that there would be no earthquakes. Therefore, it would not be necessary to test it. I strongly support the monitoring and disclosure of the monitoring data. That still doesn't happen either. The support in society for the Commission for the m.e.r. Takes off. In addition to mandatory EIAs, it is of course possible to request voluntary reporting, but that number is also decreasing. Probably because the rates are on the high side. That is again because it has been decided that the Commission for the m.e.r. to provide for its own funding. In other areas, inspections and advice are simply provided with taxpayers' money. I would like to draw attention to the whole system of regional implementation services (RUD) that we have rigged up. This is also borne by the community in other areas, such as food safety. As a result, someone who is wondering whether something is having an effect must come to terms with the cost directly. As of 1 January 2014, the government will no longer pay the Commission anything for the m.e.r. The committee must do so entirely on its own, whereas it has been paid for in full by the Ministry. I would also like to know from the Minister what impact that would have. Why is that perfectly compatible with more space in the Environment Act and a simplification? Does this still apply to the weak values, which do not scream every day 'we lose jobs; there is a project here that cannot go on'? Then how are they properly served? GroenLinks sees a great danger. From the beginning of the 1970s onwards, the objectivity and reliability of environmental impact assessments have been paramount. You see it in many of these debates, for example about deposit money. If it turns into "welles-nietes" and a discussion about how independent the advice is, you lose the game. Then I also agree with the VVD that we get a very long and awkward journey. The core of this bill affects the independence of the EIA opinion. The revised EIA Directive requires the competent authority to ensure that it has or, if necessary, has access to sufficient expertise to assess the quality of the EIA. The legislator seems to assume in the explanatory memorandum that the Commission for the m.e.r. exchangeable against any private MER advisor, provided that it is independent. I would like more clarity from the Minister. Professor Nijmeijer, Professor of Environmental Law at Radboud University, wonders whether a shift of expert advice to the market can be seen. How does the Minister feel about that? Does she agree and, if so, why? Independence of the Commission for the E.E.R. Shouldn't there be any discussion? Where are the guarantees that a commercial private agency has the same level of objectivity and the same confidence from all these different types of competent authority? How does this relate to the changed government position in relation to the legal history of the Environment Act, in which the opposite is stated? It is precisely in this context that it is recognised that the Commission's advisors for the m.e.r. be independent so that the EIA opinions keep the current added value. This can be read in the legislative history of the Environment Act. Now exactly the opposite is being done. GroenLinks would like a reaction to that too. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance can only adopt its position on this legislative proposal after hopefully having received very satisfactory responses to these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a change to the Environmental Management Act and the Crisis and Recovery Act. It's a modernisation. Modernisation should lead to improvements. This is also about the Commission's role for the M.E.R., which is limited. That's what we're worried about. We do not see this limitation as a good thing. Especially if the initiator of the plan is also the competent authority. Think of a municipality that has a construction plan and itself grants the permits for it. Besides, if it's a big plan, it's certainly good if weird eyes are watching. Democracy is served by a check and a double check. Space is scarce in the Netherlands. An intervention can always affect a different interest and the Commission for the m.e.r. plays an important role in this. We do not want to go to a situation where the butcher approves his own meat. The EIA procedure consists of two forms: the limited and the extended procedure. Although the legislative amendment indicates that in all comprehensive EIA procedures, the Commission is responsible for the e.g. a review opinion should be requested, this will change when the Environment Act is introduced. Then this is no longer mandatory. We have had a lot of criticism of this, because it limits independent quality assurance. This is particularly the case if the initiator is also the competent authority. For example, a government that wants to build a road is itself the initiator. That could be trouble. It seems to me that if there is a critical EIA report, for example, the government itself will not benefit. So we are not satisfied with this. It is particularly important in cases where the competent authority and the initiator are the same party that there is an independent guarantee. As far as we are concerned, the separation made in official organizations, if the competent authority and the initiator are the same party, is not sufficiently guaranteed at the present time and cannot guarantee that the environment receives the attention it deserves. That is why we have tabled an amendment in which we have an opinion from the Commission for the m.e.r. require projects where the initiator and the competent authority are the same organisation. I would also like to know the Minister's opinion on this. We also have a number of questions. Many points have already been mentioned by Mrs Van Veldhoven, so I am skipping them. I have another question about the separation in the organization if competent authority and initiator is the same party. In that case, there must be a divorce in the official organisation. Can the Minister clarify how she envisages this? Will divorce be compulsory at administrative level? It seems to us that it is no longer normal for this to be divorced as well. Could the Minister indicate what she's up against?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u9	The argument ended very quickly, so I had to take a sprint.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u10	I was very happy that it ended quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u11	I can imagine. It's a technical subject. I have a question about the separation of functions. It is regulated at official level, but not at administrative level. The Labour Party has tabled a very good amendment, which has the support of my group. It is a step in the right direction. But shouldn't we say that we don't want that coherence at administrative level at all, that we always separate it? I am thinking, for example, of Gasunie in Groningen and the position of the Ministry of EZ. There we said: it is actually undesirable that it should be in one ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u12	We can pull it wide, but conflict of interest isn't good anyway. What space is for must be well arranged. Those roles must be separate and properly laid down in the law. That is why we want that clarity here in the EIA procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u13	Finally, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u14	I believe that the Labour Party in the proposal does not allow the mixing of roles at official level, but at administrative level. She only wants an external test to prevent abuse, but it is maintained. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u15	No, even at the administrative level, you have to avoid conflict of interest. That is why we want this to be clearly regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, this could have been a hammerpiece today, but now that we have the debate, I have a few questions for the Minister. Let me start with a question about the implementation and implementation of this directive. Last April, only Poland had implemented this European directive. We're almost in June by now. So the question is how many countries have followed Poland in the meantime. A level playing field in Europe is beautiful, but everyone must of course introduce and use the same rules. That is why I ask the Minister how other countries deal with the existing EIA directive in practice. Is the current practice in the European Union that the EIA Directive is actually being applied? A directive is nice, but it is about reality. When this EU proposal was issued, some time ago, the VVD critically judged the need for additional European rules, because we in the Netherlands have dealt well with the EIA directive. The concern of the VVD was therefore that the proposal would lead to additional and higher administrative and financial burdens for entrepreneurs. Fortunately, in the final directive, this has been adapted to take away our concern. However, I would ask the Minister to confirm here today that the directive we are about to implement does not actually lead to higher administrative and financial burdens and that our concern has therefore been effectively removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u17	First of all, I am a little surprised that the VVD first says that this can be a hammerpiece and can therefore go straight ahead without Parliament talking about it, and then starts complaining: is there a level playing field and are we not running so fast that we anticipate other countries? As far as the VVD is concerned, we could have run even faster, because this could have been a hammerpiece of the VVD. My question concerns the administrative burden. They shift from the competent authority to the initiator, i.e. to companies. This is also made very clear by the Minister in her explanatory statement. Where exactly is Mr Veldman's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u18	In the EU's original proposal, the analysis was that it would lead to higher administrative and financial burdens. A number of changes have then been made in the negotiations in the EU or in the European Parliament. We also asked questions about this in the written round on this bill. As a result, the Minister confirmed that this would not lead to higher financial and administrative burdens. I would like to be confirmed orally today that this is actually the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u19	The documents state that a shift of administrative burden takes place from the competent authority to the initiators, i.e. to companies. Does Mr Veldman agree that the municipality first took on those costs of monitoring and that we are now laying down these costs with the business community? As for the VVD, if this is a hammer piece. For the VVD it is therefore no objection that we are now shifting these costs to business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u20	That's in line with whatever we agreed on in the Environment Act. So that's not a problem for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u21	I mentioned in my speech the stress test on mining waste water injection. The VVD thought this was just a hammer piece. Then what is the appreciation of my colleague in the VVD of a renewed application for wastewater injection? How would it work in the ideal case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u22	Mrs Van Tongeren's question is very technical. So I don't have an answer to that right now. I'm just being very honest about that. In my opinion, Mrs Van Tongeren raises a technical question rather than a substantive procedural question about the EIA directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mrs Van Tongeren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u24	I think it is very fair that my colleague from the VVD confesses that he does not know the answer, but then it is all the more strange that the VVD can accept this bill as a hammer piece. The VVD does not know what effect this has for something that the entire province of Overijssel is now on its back legs. The extraction of oil in Schoonebeek has been shut down and three provinces are now in real trouble. I therefore urge you once again to look carefully at more extreme examples. It will go well with a small bridge and a small road and perhaps also for a holiday park, but for larger damage to our nature this gives a problem. So I would once again ask whether the VVD believes that this kind of great calamities in gas and oil extraction should also be properly regulated in this EIA directive or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mrs. Van Tongeren, it really needs to be short. The interruption really needs to be brief. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u26	I asked my question just when you started: does the VVD share with GroenLinks that the EIA directive should be able to do its job not only on smaller projects, but also on large mining projects, so that we keep the Netherlands clean and safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u27	For all projects for which we use the EIA Directive, it must work in a good way. I think that is what the existing EIA Directive is doing. I hope the Minister will confirm immediately what I have just asked her to do. Even if we implement the new directive from Europe, I believe that the EIA directive in the Netherlands can still be used in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a law that will only work for a few years, because we will eventually go to the new Environment Act. However, we must now change matters concerning the environmental impact assessment, otherwise we will not comply with the revision of the European EIA Directive in good time. The Christian Union Group is still concerned about a number of aspects of the bill. Let me briefly mention them: the selection of environmental factors under assessment, the appropriate separation of administrative and administrative functions, the assurance of monitoring and the EIA advice at the EIA project. I shall begin with the assessment of relevant environmental factors. Sections D and E of the legislative proposal make it possible to assess only relevant environmental factors. The directive has not really been revised in this respect. I understand the Minister's commitment to simplification, but does this ultimately make a profit? Is it not a risk that the EIA will have to pass over at the objection and professional stage, because the competent authority has wrongly disregarded environmental factors? I am considering an amendment on this point. Then I'll go into the appropriate separation of roles. How should it work in practice if the competent authority itself is the initiator? In what way will the appearance of conflict of interest be prevented? The revised Directive states that the functional separation between the competent authority and the contracting authority is in any event necessary in the course of official preparation. There may also be a conflict of interest on the administrative level. However, the government does not want a divorce here, because this would be a headline on European directives and leave it to the competent authority. The Christian Union considers transparency, independence and the prevention of the appearance of conflict of interest more important. The separation of functions should be the norm. This is not an additional regulatory burden, but a sharing of responsibilities. I have therefore tabled an amendment. Now I come to the importance of monitoring. With this bill, good monitoring becomes even more important. After all, if an initiator wants to take voluntary measures to ensure that no significant negative environmental impacts occur, there is no need to follow an EIA procedure. But when will it be monitored and what will it be monitored? The legislative proposal leaves this to the competent authority: does monitoring consider it necessary? I think that's a little too spacious. Monitoring should be required if it is necessary in the interests of the environment. I therefore propose a minor amendment to one of the amendments. The competent authority may make written rules for monitoring, but what rules they are, is not included in the legislative proposal. Now that makes this possible, and that is beautiful, but it can also ensure that monitoring is inadequate or unnecessarily different, making results difficult to compare in different regions. I have also tabled an amendment to the effect that rules for monitoring can be laid down in a General Measure of Management. For common environmental values, rules can then be set where necessary without compromising the customization required for other environmental values. This can also make it easier to keep accumulation in view. Another advantage is that it also provides more support for local authorities. Is the Minister prepared to support local authorities in the form of manuals to help them set the right monitoring requirements for environmental values for which it is not desirable to lay down such national rules? The Christian Union would like to know how to prevent damage to the environment. The competent authority should first have the monitoring results of third parties, have time and manpower to identify those results, draw up appropriate measures, if necessary, and then impose those measures. After that, they still have to be executed. There's gonna be a lot of time in that. Isn't that how you run the risk of irreparable damage? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. I now come to my final point, the EIA opinion. This legislative proposal makes the Commission's opinion optional for the limited procedure. In the Environment Act, the advice will eventually become optional even for all project EIAs, even where it is still mandatory. The Christian Union does not agree with this. Independent review by the committee ensures a necessary guarantee that objective and high quality information has been used. It is precisely in projects that are often complex with potentially high environmental impact and societal interest that an independent review has added value. That is entirely the case if the competent authority is also the initiator. Does the Minister agree with me that if you are the initiator and do not seek independent advice from the Commission for the m.e.r., this is contrary to the requirement for separation of functions in the EIA Directive? After all, the butcher then approves his own flesh. I have therefore tabled an amendment which seeks to ensure that the advice given to the EIA project is always mandatory. I am sorry, I am the second author of this amendment; it was tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven. There was some consultation before this debate and we are trying to get as much together as possible. This amendment from D66 and the Christian Union ensures that the advice from the EIA project is always mandatory. I understand that the Minister will say: it will take time, but it can of course also be a light advice. With the Commission for the m.e.r. good agreements can be made that no unnecessary thick reports will be made; then it will only take a limited amount of time. In addition, an EIA opinion can also save time in the follow-up to the decision-making procedure. It is precisely an independent advice that can help to support and prevent resistance and procedures. That seems to me to be an important objective of the legal process today. This was my first-term contribution. I look forward to the debate with the Minister. Perhaps we do not even need a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u29	I hope so. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I propose that the sitting be suspended for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr. Chairman. What we have before us is an amendment to an EU directive. The most important point is the separation of responsibilities in situations where the initiator of a project is also the competent authority. The special thing about this debate is that I hear a lot of questions about the Commission for the first time, which is not even included in this amendment to the directive. I would also like to mention the question of its financing, which arises from a decision taken in 2011 on the mandatory review. The decision in this Chamber was recently taken that the review should not be compulsory. There were still some of those things. Anyway, you can and you can. Members are always entitled to question the whole world in a legislative proposal, but I thought it would be a good idea to point this out. In general, many concerns have been expressed about the separation of responsibilities in the situation in which the competent authority is also the initiator. That's what this is about. With this proposal, we are trying to ensure that the separation of responsibilities is very well organised if the person who initiated a proposal is at the same time the competent authority in the EIA procedure. I think that this debate is mainly concerned with the question of how best to implement it. The directive actually imposes an obligation to separate the tasks of the competent authority from the tasks of the initiator during the official preparation. There has also been a request for an administrative interpretation of this. I actually assume that, if you separate a good administration, it will also work through the administrative lines. However, I also think it is something that you need to fill out not so much at the state level, but simply at the municipal level. This is quite different from the Commission's assessment of the EIA project. You have an E.R. made at the front. The Commission for the m.e.r. only plays a role at the back. The Commission for the m.e.r. checks whether the EIA that has been created meets all the points that should ultimately be taken into account. The requirement for an appropriate separation of tasks plays a role throughout the official preparation of an EIA-related decision. The Commission's review of the M.e.r. takes place only after completion of the EIA and one cannot replace the other either. In this legislative proposal, the current line of scrutiny by the Commission for the m.e.r. Followed, continued. Members asked for the mandatory review; they also asked if the EIA would be in the Environment Act. There's still one in this bill. It states that review is mandatory in the extended procedure and optional in the limited procedure. That will indeed be changed in the Environment Act, but this bill does not change that. I will pass through the individual questions of the committee members, but only after I have responded to various concerns and questions. Are you or are you not going to bet a separate commission? Isn't a second opinion very important if a competent authority has decided something? What should not be forgotten is that the EIA procedure, the process of making an environmental impact assessment and its assessment of content, must always be put into perspective. The competent authority will therefore always have to answer to the public about the quality of an EIA and thus the quality of the decision-making process. Maybe it's good for the picture to say that. Suppose someone takes the initiative and has the competent authority in an EIA procedure; all that happens in chambers and then there is no mandatory review. Then it may be wondering whether this is going well, but this is, of course, just subject to participation and this needs to be set out in a vision. In that respect, anyone can respond, as the conscience of the public administration. I now turn to the individual questions of the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u31	I would like to ask a question about these last words from the Minister. Does she agree with D66 that if you give the competent authority more freedom of choice, there is also a need for more accountability for those choices? This also means that there may be more points on which a party may object to the choices made. You can make an obligation to test everything, but if you leave the choice to the competent authority, it may only be tested on five points. That could be a lead for someone else to say that he also wants to test points six and seven. Of course, that would be different if you just said that everyone had to test ten points. In short: there is therefore a benefit and disadvantage to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u32	That is the complexity of the Environment Act, because that applies not only to this subject, but also to many other subjects. The world isn't really easy to grasp in a blueprint or in a pattern. For this reason, we want to give municipalities the space to make their own choices and to assess the situation for themselves in order to find out exactly what is needed and when you need to do an extensive or short procedure. This is more open than if you can only choose between options A, B or C. That can always lead to objections. We are talking about this directive, but Mrs Van Veldhoven's question is actually related to the Environment Act. The essence of the Environment Act is that you have to involve all interested parties at the front and that you sit down with them to see how you can best fill something out. That way, you're gonna avoid that legal pull at the back, because you don't trust each other. After all, trust is the essence of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u33	I'll share that with the Minister. I also share her search for the answer to the question of how we can ensure that we do not do unnecessary things. The principle, however, is that the more choice there is, the more things there are apple labels. We need to realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u34	I get that. I think we should continue to evaluate each other, and that's what we agreed on in the Environment Act. I shall now turn to Mrs Van Veldhoven's specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u35	Madame van Tongeren wants to interrupt first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u36	I was just talking about the stress case. Following on from my colleague from D66's question, GroenLinks wonders whether there should be a mandatory EIA for mining activities and whether you should not limit the freedom of choice for some expected effects, so that we at least start looking at certain things first. Mining activities are by definition large, extend over a long period and are characterised by effects which are very difficult to foresee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u37	This actually refers to the first question from D66, namely whether a provision for significant effects is part of the revision of the EU directive and why the competent authority should indicate what is significant. That's the same as the question of what should actually be in it. An EIA must now deal with the significant effects of an activity and that has not been changed by the revised EIA Directive. So that's just how we took over. The competent authority ultimately determines what is significant, because it can best estimate it. However, the initiator and the public have an influence on this, because the view has to be made public. That must be done, and that does not change with this legislation either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u38	I understand that this does not change, but I would like this to change. Shouldn't you always have a mandatory EIA in mining, plus a list of significant effects that need to be looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u39	Mrs Van Tongeren is asking about an issue from the Committee on EZ, namely mining. I can't tell if you're always talking about significant effects in mining. There will probably also be activities under the Mining Act where this is not the case. That is why we put the assessment down to the competent authority, so that it can assess for itself whether there is a significant effect or not. It can also ask for advice and it can be helped. The report will eventually become public. So everyone can see what consideration has been made. It has been asked whether mining activities should always be subject to "significant impact"? My answer to that is no, because I think there will also be mining activities without significant impact. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked about the risk of conflict of interest. How do you prevent that from being administrative and administrative? I see the risk of conflict of interest. I think it is a good thing that the EIA directive draws attention to this. The law states that the competent authority, which is also the initiator of a project, also ensures an appropriate separation of functions. I thought Mrs. Dik-Faber asked why I'm not here for that. However, I am in favour of an appropriate separation of functions, only the form, the how, I would like to indicate in consultation with the VNG and the IPO in a hand-out. It will be different for the Empire, for a municipality and for the Provincial States. So I think you should design it with a hand-picking. What about the monitoring? Monitoring is tailor-made, which follows from the Directive. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asked another question about monitoring. As far as monitoring is concerned, I have taken on board the obligations of the directive one-on-one. This is at the level of the competent authority concerned. A monitoring tool has also been requested. If we take over the monitoring obligations one-on-one, we will discuss how best to shape things. This is always the case in the case of legislation that is being amended. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked about the exceptional cases in which exemption from the EIA requirement could be granted under Article 7.5. The EU EIA Directive provides the possibility to grant exemption from the EIA requirement in exceptional cases where the provisions of the EIA Directive would adversely affect the project's purpose. The new Article 7.5 is a literal version of the EU's EIA Directive, but exemption is not easy. As a Member State, you have to apply to the European Union for such an exemption, which then submits it to all Member States. That's not a shortcut to circumvent the EIA obligation. I think you'd better live up to it, 'cause you'll be done a lot faster. Although the EIA obligation will no longer apply, the objectives of the EIA Directive and the international conventions relating to EIA, such as the Espoo Convention, the SEA Protocol or the Aarhus Convention still have to be met. However, you must involve the environmental information in your decision and make that information available to the public. A report has yet to be drawn up. I'll just mention the bumps. I wonder if anyone in their life is ever going to go through this process at all, but apparently it has been thought that there could be a possibility of that, and that is why it has been recorded in this way. The question was whether I would be prepared to take a hand-out and discuss it with the Chamber. I am certainly prepared, in consultation with the VNG and the IPO, to draw up a hand-out meeting, which will then be about this monitoring exercise, and I am also prepared to inform the Chamber by letter of that hand-out. Then I come to Mrs Van Tongeren's questions. She asked why the Commission for the m.e.r. to finance itself. I no longer see Mrs Van Tongeren in the Chamber, but I assume that someone will listen on her behalf. The Commission for the m.e.r. is not an inspection but an independent advisory body and it has been a decision of the Cabinet in 2011 to proceed to independent funding. This is also the case, for example, in the committee on the authorisation of pesticides, so that self-financing is also at issue in other committees. Of course, we also said in 2011 that a bridging period was needed, so there has been a bridging loan of 8 million for four years, but in the end we also see that a good EIA simply repays itself in such a procedure, because environmental information is always needed and is also required in legislation. Objective advice given by the Commission for the m.e.r., but also by external consultants, for example, are simply important in order to get your project done properly. Then I come to the question of whether the monitoring data is public. Yes, the directive requires monitoring data to be made public, unless the competent authority has very specific reasons not to do so, for example, if it is confidential. It is now, so that hasn't changed either. Then I come to the question of the impact on the Commission's rates on the m.e.r. That is a fair question, because if you change the system, you want to know if you still have enough financial support to have enough good people in the house. So it is not that we would have said: we are not going to finance, we are not going to bridge and we are not watching. We are really evaluating this, and in the process of examining the bill on tariffs, I promised the Chamber that it would evaluate its impact in 2016, and I expect to be able to come up with the results of the evaluation in early 2017. I can see, for example, how much is being used and what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u40	I still have a question about the choice to leave the monitoring to the initiator. The Minister says that she has taken over the provision one-on-one from the directive, and the shift of that monitoring power from the competent authority to the initiator means that you have a new area where choices are made and choices are apple labels, that is what the Minister and I were talking about just now, and it also means a shift of costs. Now I have gone to the text of the directive and what I could find on it is on p.a.g. 12 of the Directive. Article 9 (4) states that, in accordance with the requirements referred to in paragraph 1, the Member States shall ensure that the characteristics of the project are carried out by the sponsor and that the procedures for monitoring the significant adverse environmental effects are established. But it doesn't say who it is. I therefore wonder whether it is not a national headline on European policy when you say that the initiator should do so and that we do not keep it with the competent authority. Can the Minister please come back to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u41	I have just indicated that the implementation of this is at the level of the competent authority concerned. I said that the monitoring took over the obligations one-on-one from the directive, and that their implementation lies at the level of the competent authority concerned. I don't think there's a head with that. So I think it was a misunderstanding that this would lie with the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u42	In that case, I apologize for that. This means that the competent authority determines what is to be monitored and that the initiator must do so? Do I understand correctly that the initiator then has no choice what he wants to monitor or does not want to monitor and that is thus determined by the competent authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u43	This is, of course, also logical, because the competent authority is often also the political body. If you agree to do a project, you should also be able to measure and monitor what you have agreed to politically. Suppose the initiator is a project developer, then it cannot be that he says: I'm just going to monitor this, because I don't think the rest is relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u44	Finally!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you. When I read this piece, it seemed to me to be an important vulnerability. Is the way in which monitoring is carried out also determined by the competent authority? I ask, because that is, of course, an extension of each other. You can say "I have to measure the nitrogen," but the way you do it, of course, determines the reliability of the results. In this way, you can also ensure a lasting comparison and disclosure of data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u46	I know that, on the basis of the directive, the competent authority should always explicitly indicate in the decision whether monitoring should be carried out and, if so, what possible effects of the project should be monitored. It is also necessary to specify how long monitoring is to be carried out, as this can also have an effect. I don't know if it's pre-defined. You would think so, because there are also all kinds of legal obligations such as "Nutrition for fine dust emissions." That is what has been agreed and, for example, the Aarhus Convention. Maybe I can say something about that, but... excuse me, I can see the answer now in my papers. That answer is: The competent authority attaches the monitoring obligation as a requirement to its decision. In it, the competent authority may also impose substantive requirements on monitoring. Monitoring of the quality of monitoring shall be subject to the maintenance of the decision by the competent authority. Moreover, the results of the monitoring will be published to the public and thus public accountability will also take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u47	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u48	Mrs Van Tongeren asked me about the role of the independent Commission for the Environment. and confidence in external agencies versus the Commission for the m.e.r. There is already an independent Commission for the M.e.r. And why would you work with an external agency? Of course, we have chosen that the competent authority is responsible for the quality of the environmental information required for a decision. For the assessment of the EIA, the Commission may be called upon to review the EIA. or on an external agency. They're free in there. Independence of the Commission for the E.E.R. speaks for itself; everyone knows it. If one opts for an external agency, i.e. for an agency other than the one that has been set up by the EIA, one will have to prove that it is independent. It is therefore a little up to the competent authority to make a choice. This avoids compulsory shopping, something we have talked about before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u49	I suggest that the Minister should first answer all of Mrs Van Tongeren's questions. I understand that there is also a need for a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u50	Mrs Van Tongeren has asked whether the Commission for the may be exchanged against any private adviser. I have just discussed this question and I think that I have answered Mrs Van Tongeren's questions. The next pile of answers says "the PvdA."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u51	I understand from the Minister's explanation that it is fine for a lot of ordinary projects. It makes it simpler, clearer and clearer. However, I am stuck in my stomach with... I only invented one example project, namely the waste water injection in Twente. Would that have gone better under these laws than last time? And...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u52	The Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mr President, I find that complex because I do not know the example, of course, like Mr Veldman, who had to remain guilty of the answer to this question. I am trying to point out that this EIA directive has not changed all kinds of substantive requirements for the EIA. The EIA Directive deals mainly with the separation of responsibilities with a competent authority which is also the initiator. It is therefore a matter of internal separation in the house and thus an additional guarantee that things are fair and objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u54	This is law enforcement. We try to do it very quickly, but I find it difficult if...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u55	It was a hammer piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u56	It has been hammered out, we are dealing with it here and I would like to ask my questions briefly, but if the microphone is turned off halfway through my question, it will be very difficult for the Minister to answer. I would like to say again that it does not solve anything to refer to the Mining Act or to Minister Kamp, which then points to the obligations under the EIA. We do both debates. I am very concerned that this relaxation will mean that it will be very complicated for the municipality of Haaksbergen to decide on such a complex project if it does not get a clear directive, manual or AMvB from this minister. I do not think it is realistic to place a municipality in such a way with these large and complex projects, which will have an effect over a long period of time and which are difficult to foresee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u57	That was my answer to Mrs Van Veldhoven's first question! An EIA must now also deal with significant effects of an activity. That has not been changed by this revision of the EIA Directive. In fact, you say: I want the EIA directive to be used now to make it stricter. You are talking about a relaxation, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u59	Mrs Cegerek asked why the Commission's assessment of the EIA project was carried out. is not compulsory. That is a discussion that we discussed in the Environment Act, but which is not covered in this proposal. In any case, this proposal does not change anything. This is mandatory in the extended procedure and optional in the limited procedure. In my view, the competent authority itself is responsible for the quality of the decision-making process, including the quality of the documents that underpin the decision-making process. That is why, in the Environment Act, we said that the Commission for the m.e.r. should be able to do so optionally in all cases. This has been discussed in the context of the Environment Act and your Chamber agreed with it. Not everyone, but a majority, including the PvdA group, was for that point. I think it would be a good idea to return to the discussion that has taken place earlier. Next, such a competent authority at its own scale must consider whether it needs a second opinion and who it wants it from. Mrs Cegerek asked whether there was a sufficient distinction between the functions of the competent authority and the initiator of projects in which the authority itself is the initiator, and whether that was justified. In practice, you will see that for plans and visions, the review advice for the plan-MER remains mandatory. That Commission for the m.e.r. So it has to do so for plans and visions, just not for projects anymore. That is where the review opinion became optional. That too seems important to me to know. So it's not about everything, it's about part of the plan EIA. I think that the projects are about a concrete implementation of the plans. The plans already have a review opinion by the Commission for the m.e.r. I haven't had one. The central government itself has a great interest in weighing up the decision to be taken, especially vis-à-vis its inhabitants and businesses. I also think that the decentralised government is capable of doing this. Mr Veldman asked me how many countries after Poland have already started doing this. Poland has followed its own rapid procedure. According to last week's latest information, all Member States expect to introduce this Directive 16 May 2017. The reason I'm dealing with this right now is because I would have preferred the Environment Act to bring up the introduction law and everything is that we have to make it to the 16th of May 2017. All Member States are in the implementation phase and the European Commission is monitoring proper implementation. It's an international obligation. Are there any extra cups? No, the implementation doesn't bring any extra headlines. Looking at everything, I don't expect any increase for all the initiators together. Sometimes I always say that there can be a difference between individual cases and it can involve a reduction and a slight increase for the other. I don't expect that for all the initiators together. Mrs Dik-Faber had another question about the selection of environmental factors. What is relevant and who determines that? The competent authority shall determine which environmental factors are relevant for the decision and also for monitoring. So it's going to be customized per project. All of her other questions were included in the amendments. I think it's a good thing I'm passing by now. It has to be now, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u60	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u61	The first is the amendment to item No. Mr Cegerek. I reject this amendment because it goes against the general principle of the Environment Act that responsibility for good decision-making lies with the competent authority closest to it. This adaptation of the EIA Directive is not about this either, so it is not necessary to put it into practice now. In fact, the proposed amendment seeks to provide a qualitative guarantee for independent decision-making. Of course, I think it is important that that happens. However, I do not think that a mandatory review opinion on the EIA is the right answer to this, because it will only take place after the completion of the EIA, but you need to do so much more in front of it by achieving a good separation of roles at the beginning of the EIA process. As far as projects where the State is the competent authority and the initiator are concerned, I can tell you that in almost all cases it has already decided to apply for a review opinion, from its example. I do not want to interfere in the decision-making powers of other governments. In addition, the Commission may, for m.e.r. are always requested by the competent authority to check the EIA. As far as I am concerned, however, the Court of Justice is aware of this position, in fact, from previous discussions, it ignores the responsibility of the governments and does not reconcile it with the confidence I have in the governments on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u62	The PvdA is also in favour of the free choice of local authorities. However, it is important to define these roles clearly. In its letter explaining the purpose and context of this legislative amendment, the Minister states that the government does not consider it desirable to lay down exhaustively by law how this separation of roles should be achieved. If you take care of those roles in advance in the law, you avoid the confusion afterwards. Does the Minister agree with me that this is primarily a legal issue and that the proper handling of it in the law is a problem after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u63	I would like to answer this question, but it is not related to the amendment. The amendment is about the Commission for the m.e.r. and the question of the separation of rolls at the front, in the EIA opinion. Perhaps there has been confusion because, of course, these things are very similar. The amendment focuses on the Commission for the m.e.r. We have actually said in the Environment Act that we are not going to do it that way, that it will become optional for projects. I think I can give Mrs Cegerek a hand in asking for an appropriate separation of functions. We could see if we can make a handout for appropriate separation of functions, in which we can describe, in consultation with the VNG and the IPO, how to do this properly and how to facilitate the competent authority to give it the best possible shape. Legally it is stated that it is separated, only not how it is done. That is very complex, because it varies by municipality or province and at a rich level. I cannot ask Mrs Cegerek to withdraw her amendment, but this could be a good alternative to offer a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u64	Mrs Cegerek, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u65	As far as I am concerned, there is no ambiguity about that. You can describe this in the manual, but the relevant government that has a conflict can ignore it. Freedom is good, but the proper recording of the roles also provides clarity. In your reply, I do not see how you are going to ensure that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u66	Again, I am a great supporter of the division of roles. If the competent authority is also the initiator, I think it is very important. This can never give rise to the suspicion that you favour your own initiative in your judgment or monitoring. I am prepared to facilitate this with a hand-out that sets out how governments can deal with this requirement of appropriate separation of functions. I want to draft that hand-out together with VNG and IPO. But it's complicated to include this in the law, because it varies from government to government. Then it's got to be a lot more about you doing it than how you do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u68	The next motion is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u69	Amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u70	The next amendment is that in part No. 7 of Mr Dik-Faber. That amendment requires monitoring where there is a potential for significant environmental impacts. I reject this amendment because it goes against the general principle of the Environment Act that the responsibility for proper decision-making, supervision and enforcement lies with the competent authority. This should explicitly indicate in the decision whether monitoring should be carried out, and if so, what possible effects of projects should be monitored and how long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u71	Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u72	Does the Minister not agree with me that this is a far too open wording and that it is unclear for citizens, on the basis of which criteria the competent authority decides whether or not to monitor? There are no criteria for this. If we include matters such as 'in order to protect the environment' or 'in order to protect public health', this will provide a clear tool for citizens and for the competent authority itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u73	The competent authority must simply state explicitly in the decision whether it is being monitored and, if so, what possible effects it may have. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked whether there could be requirements for design. That's the case. You should not make a separate list for the environment or health, but municipalities should know that they have to comply with legal obligations. They're about emissions, about environment and so on. On the latter ground is almost completely laid down in rules what you do and don't like. If they're monitoring, they're gonna have to do it on there. Furthermore, municipalities will soon be given the opportunity to experiment. If they deviate from anything, they will also have to monitor it and provide explicit information about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u74	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u75	It is a question of monitoring very different effects. Many different methods are conceivable to monitor these effects. In the future, new methods will be developed to monitor certain effects. It would be a huge operation to create a quality standard for that. I'm afraid you'll be chasing the facts soon. The amendment in part No. 8 member Dik-Faber asks for an AMvB with quality standards to be met by monitoring. As I said in the previous amendment, it is a question of monitoring very different effects. Different methods are conceivable and new methods may also be introduced on the market. It becomes very complicated to define all possible methods and quality standards. I therefore advise against this amendment, because you are lagging behind the facts. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u76	In part No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u77	In the amendment to item No. 9 asks Mrs Dik-Faber to use appropriate separation of functions at administrative level. I would advise against this amendment. The EIA Directive requires an appropriate separation of the roles of competent authority and initiator in the official organisation. The starting point for implementation is not to go beyond what is necessary under the Directive. So the European obligations must not be ignored. There is no need for content either. Governments are also well able to take care of the proper implementation of that appropriate separation. They are, where necessary, responsible for the administrative implementation themselves. The competent authority is free, if it so wishes, to separate the roles at administrative level, but it is not up to the Empire to prescribe that. I shall now turn to Amendment No 1, which seeks to amend the motion for a resolution by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 10, indicating that there should be an obligation to monitor when there is a potential for significant environmental impacts. That amendment was tabled by Christian Union and D66. I do not recommend the amendment, because it goes against the general principle of the Environment Act that responsibility for proper decision-making, supervision and enforcement lies with the competent authority. The competent authority should explicitly indicate in the decision whether monitoring should be carried out and, if so, what possible effects of the project should be monitored and how long it should be monitored. That's customization; you can't determine that in advance. It is therefore up to the executive authority. I shall now turn to the last amendment, which concerns item No. 11, by members Van Veldhoven and Dik-Faber. It calls for a mandatory Commission review opinion for the m.e.r. for all project EIA procedures in this bill and in the Environmental Act. I have answered that question many times. I would advise against this amendment. Its purpose is to ensure that the Commission's review opinion on the M.E.R. in the case of a project EIA is always mandatory and my view is that the competent authority is primarily responsible for the quality of the decision and thus also for the EIA that is made for a decision. It is precisely in the case of projects that the competent authority itself is best placed to assess when an opinion of the Commission is delivered on behalf of the European Parliament. is necessary to strengthen the quality of the EIA in projects. A mandatory opinion increases administrative and administrative burdens and also puts a head on European rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u78	I note the need for a second deadline, at least for Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u79	Mr. Chairman. We are working together to find the right balance between freedom and security. The Minister indicated that she would work with a hand-out or model regulation in relation to the separation of functions at the administrative level. She says she wants to send it to the Chamber for information, but I think it is crucial that it is also discussed with the Chamber before it is adopted. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas under no circumstances may there be any conflict of interest where the competent authority is also the initiator of the environmental impact assessment;]] [[Whereas the new EIA Directive requires appropriate separation of functions in the official organisation;]] [[considers that there may also be a conflict of interest at administrative level when roles are not separated;]] [[noting that the government chooses not to lay down this by law but to facilitate it by means of a "hand delivery" or "model regulation";]] [[invites the Government to discuss this "handicapped" or "model regulation" with the Chamber before it is adopted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34287-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u80	Another point where we are looking for the right level of abstraction of the representation in the law and the right way to ensure care is monitoring. We have talked to the Minister about this. Indeed, the law states that the competent authority should indicate what should be monitored, what the monitoring measures are and what the duration of the monitoring is, but it does not specify how to monitor them. Let me give you an example. You can monitor the effects of the measure to drive 130 km/h for a period of five years. You can also indicate that you have to use tubes that you need to attach along the highway, but that doesn't tell you how many tubes you need to have and how to distribute them across the Netherlands. Now I do not think that we should try to describe in an AMvB what possible investigations you could all carry out. I can imagine the Minister's concerns about this. However, I believe that the law should be very clear that the competent authority describes how it is to be implemented. In this case, that means that you have to have enough tubes to actually say something about the effect of those 130 km/h. Then it may be that an environmental organization says: one tube seems to us to be very little. It's a theoretical example, but I can imagine this happening. I would therefore like to see that point tightened up. It looks at whether an amendment is needed, but perhaps the Minister says: I fully understand and I will see to it that this is taken care of. Let's talk about that a little bit longer. If we can still specify this point, we have the right level of abstraction and the right balance to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u81	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in the case of planned mining activities, an independent opinion of the Commission on the impact assessment of the environment (Commission for the Environment) is always available. is available,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in many cases the costs of advice and inspections are charged to the general budget because they provide for a public interest;]] [[Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament, explicitly deviated, resulting in a significant reduction in the number of voluntary opinions requested;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to increase the number of voluntary EIA opinions and to inform the Court of Justice of this in the forthcoming review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34287-13]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34287-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u82	Does Mrs Van Tongeren mean that we need to examine what bottlenecks exist which will reduce the number of voluntary applications? Only having voluntary applications is not an end in itself. The point is that they do not fail to do so if they are necessary and if we get a good idea of whether there are any obstacles that are unrealistic or we do not want them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u83	I think it's exactly what Mrs Van Veldhoven says. That's the intention of the motion. If you see a huge fall in the number of EIA opinions, it may not be because suddenly everything is perfectly arranged. However, we have seen this since the funding changed. My implicit assumption is that the funding has certainly something to do with it. The Minister says this is not the case. I would like to draw your explicit attention to this in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u84	Finally, Mrs Van Veldhoven, and briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u85	Maybe we can see if the wording of the motion can be made even clearer. Only more voluntary applications are not an end in themselves; you want to prevent them from being unduly absent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u86	If there is a better formulation, I am open to it. I will then amend the text accordingly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas objectivity and independence is of great importance in advising on projects with potential environmental impacts;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that only the Commission for the m.e.r. may issue independent EIA opinions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34287-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u87	I ask questions about it in many debates, such as the Environment Act, the Structural Vision and the Mining Act: how are we going to arrange this properly for mining projects, because they involve large financial interests, but also major environmental impacts? It seems to me that it would be difficult to establish in separate legislation, in the Mining Act or in another law, that there should be mandatory EIA advice. After all, this Minister wants it to be settled in one place and clear. This EIA Directive could be the place to do so. Minister Kamp has also repeatedly promised in debates that there will always be an EIA in mining activities. That is also one of the reasons why I have tried to raise this issue today. I can imagine that the Minister would like to discuss this with her colleagues in Economic Affairs. However, I would like to make an urgent plea that we do not include this in all kinds of different laws per amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u88	You had a question for Mrs. Van Tongeren, Mrs. Cegerek? If not, why are you standing there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u89	I'd like to waive my second term, because I'm not filing any motions. I just wanted to explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u90	That's good, thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u91	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her reply. I agree with the Minister that we are placing a great deal of responsibility on the competent authority. That is extremely important, because that is the first step. This way, there is also room for customization. Nevertheless, I have tabled a number of amendments because I do want to provide a framework within which decision-making takes place and procedures are initiated. I refer, for example, to the amendment on item No. 7, which relates monitoring to the environment and public health. Such frameworks provide clarity to the competent authority and to citizens and prevent arbitrariness. This prevents citizens from having to deal with other procedures at a time when there is a college of a different political colour. I shall come back to the amendment to item No. 8. That amendment concerns the possibility of setting rules for monitoring procedures in a General Measure of Governance. The Minister made it very clear that she absolutely does not want that. I would like to stress that this is a decision. It has not been said beforehand that we are going to make use of this; it is a possibility. This will prevent arbitrariness and ensure that procedures are comparable in Groningen and Maastricht. In this way we can also compare the data that comes out of it and, for example, we can also monitor cumulative effects in our country. I hope that the Minister will look again at the amendments and that she will be more sympathetic to them. Of course, I am maintaining these amendments. We will vote on this next week. I have no further motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u92	The Minister states that she needs a few moments to prepare her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u93	Mr. Chairman. I thank the members of the Chamber for their questions. I would also like to thank them for saying that they also see that there is always a vulnerable balance between local democratic responsibilities and a national grid to help them. The Van Veldhoven motion in part No. I deal with 12 in conjunction with the concern of the PvdA spokesperson, because they relate to the same story: discussing the hand-out with the Chamber. I am certainly prepared to draw up this with those involved, IPO and VNG, and to discuss it with the Chamber. I told you I'd send these to the Chamber. It's all about the arrangement of that piece, the Chamber itself. It is important, however, that the hand-out is not part of this directive. I am happy to discuss her, but we simply need to develop the directive further. That's not gonna stop him. That is simply about implementing the rules. I'm going to shape the implementation of the regulation with them. I'll show the Chamber the hand-off and get her involved. It must then see for itself whether it will act in due course or whether it will have confidence in it. The motion therefore supports policy. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van Tongeren, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution tabled on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van Tongeren, on behalf of the The EIA Directive currently under discussion does not change the EIA and EIA assessment projects, the C and D lists. We also do not want to create additional headlines in this bill. I understand that at the moment the amendments to the Mining Act are pending with the Chamber. It seems to me that a point of that order should be on the agenda, and not on this. In substance, I would advise against the motion, as I have already said. In the Van Tongeren motion in part No. 14 The government is invited to examine how the number of voluntary EIA opinions can be raised and to inform the Court of Justice about this in the evaluation. I agree that it should not be a question of increasing the number of voluntary opinions. In particular, it is important to consider whether there are obstacles for the parties to seek advice. That is also part of the evaluation. I am actually assuming that there will be a joint review of how this motion will be amended. If the motion is modified, I see her as a support for policy. If not, I'll betray her because this isn't an end in itself for me. In her motion in part No. 15 Mrs Van Tongeren asked the government to ensure that only the Commission for the m.e.r. may issue independent EIA opinions. I'm against that. That is a headline on the directive. The directive does not prescribe that either. Most countries do not even have an M.E.R. Commission. I cannot therefore implement the directive in such a way that we do so only for the Dutch situation. Other external agencies can also be consulted in other countries. This is equally possible in the Netherlands. I want to keep it that way because it shouldn't be mandatory shopping. I am very pleased with the Commission for the m.e.r. as an independent institution, but may just as well be pleased with another organisation that can do so with experience. Mrs Dik-Faber asked another question about her amendment to item No. 8 and the assessment. We can do this now, too. Let me take up the amendment to see what its scope was. These are quality standards that monitoring must meet. I have already indicated in the discussion, following a question from Mrs Van Veldhoven, that municipalities can determine quality standards in the demands they make to an initiator. Mrs Dik-Faber says that the amendment is not so bad because it contains a provision, but that can be done. That, too, is another reason for me to discourage it. This way you make it too detailed and capture it too much, while I think there are many more possibilities. Mrs Van Veldhoven said that they should describe it. I just need to make sure that this is already possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u94	Mrs Dik-Faber, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u95	It can be done at local level, but I do not want to create a variety of criteria, so that data are not comparable. I can imagine that there will be a moment when we say: we want to give a little more direction to that now, so that there is less arbitrariness and we can compare data and see accumulation. Then I'm really talking about national criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u96	On the contrary, it is not a question of arbitrariness, but of tailor-made work, because it is a question of local issues. Customization allows you to check different things in different municipalities. Of course, you must never exceed national standards. Everything we have to do, everything we've agreed on in a balanced process, is just fixed. They will have to comply with this in any case. In order to describe what quality standards should be included in what situation, it is really too extensive and complex. I don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-6.u97	We will vote on the bill and the motions tabled next Tuesday.
