ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Laar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Isla and the energy company in Curaçao make the people of Curaçao sick. We've known that for years. There's no sign of improvement. The government of Curaçao does not maintain, improve or commit itself. We discussed this extensively during the general consultation. As a result of this consultation, I am now tabling a motion on behalf of representatives of a majority of the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that emissions of harmful substances at Curaçao from the Isla refinery and the energy company are increasing and that this causes health damage, including death;]] [[noting that the authorities in Curaçao have not been enforcing the structural breach of environmental standards by these public undertakings for years;]] [[points out that there is poor governance by failing to enforce applicable emission standards;]] [[Notes that this constitutes a violation of the fundamental rights of the citizens of Curaçao, whose lives are endangered;]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible, to consult the Government of Curaçao and to urge it to take all reasonable steps to reduce the emission of harmful substances within three months and to inform the Chamber of the results of these consultations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Laar, Van Raak, Sjoerdsma, Voordewind, Van Tongeren, Bishop and Thieme.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Something has to be done. If the Minister of Defence withdraws the Dutch soldiers from the people's neighborhoods of Willemstad because the pollution is too great, then we cannot leave the people there to their fate. Curaçao is a country within the Kingdom, but when it comes to bad governance and guaranteeing fundamental rights, the Kingdom and therefore the Netherlands are in sight. That is why I warmly signed Mr Van Laar's motion. However, the Isla has been a problem for 100 years, with huge pollution by Shell and later by PDVSA. The country has bought the refinery literally for an apple and an egg and now has a very big problem, because cleaning costs billions. That money doesn't have Curaçao and it never gets Curaçao. Does Venezuela want to participate in this? Does PDVSA want to take part in this? Probably, but they don't want to fix up a rental house. They want to buy the refinery and have it in their possession. However, I believe that this encounters major geopolitical concerns from the United States. I warmly supported Mr Van Laar's proposal, but I would also like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to get Venezuela, the United States and Curaçao to sit together to see how we can get out of this geopolitical knot and free the people in the neighborhoods of the people from the stench, poison and pollution of the Isla refinery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. In fact, this is a discussion of ownership and responsibility. As far as the VVD is concerned, the responsibility lies with Curaçao and the government must take action on it. What do we see? The government of Curaçao is taking action. The authorisation has not been renewed. It is not that they are not going to continue there, but at least that is where the discussion is going to take place. The discussion in Curaçao is also about whether gas can be switched to gas. There are all kinds of things going on in Curaçao to improve the situation regarding the ISLA refinery. That is the crux of the matter. The question then is whether it is prudent to paint a picture from the Netherlands here in the House of Representatives: we have to intervene on that. I think it's unwise, especially when steps are taken. With regard to the military, I think that is a completely different story. We, as the Netherlands, are employers of this and we have an employer's responsibility, as well as we do not intervene in Curaçao on the working time law. That is their working time law, and they have to find out for themselves, but the Dutch Working Time Act applies to our Dutch employees. So there are differences and they are also clear. As far as the VVD is concerned, we have different responsibilities in this regard. That is why the VVD believes that we should not intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	A year and a half ago, the National Council of Ministers had a discussion with Aruba on the budget. Aruba was in the process of putting the budget in order, consulting and taking all kinds of measures, but the VVD supported the appointment of the National Council of Ministers at that time. What's the difference with this case? What gives Mr Bosman the confidence that the Curaçao government is actually going to reduce emissions from the ISLA refinery and the energy company so that something really is being done about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	The case of Aruba affects the Dutch taxpayer in the context of finance and I take action on that. I am a representative of the Dutch people and not of the Curaçao people. This is not a kingdom representation. It is my role as a representative of the people of my constituency that I intervene on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mr Van Laar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	Then I understand that a possible bill for the Netherlands, however far it may be, is more important for the VVD than the lives of people on Curaçao and therefore that of Dutch people with a Dutch passport. So that's actually the trade-off for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	No, that's bullshit. Mr Van Laar has joined the discussion. You can also broaden it. When it comes to poverty and concern, for example, I do not hear Mr Van Laar and the PvdA about it; so it is a bit through a straw looking at a problem and saying: we are going to intervene on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u10	I find it quite remarkable, however, that if we withdraw our soldiers under the smoke of the ISLA, Mr Bosman says that this is logical because they are our soldiers, but that he is not prepared to do anything for the people who live there day and night under that smoke. I think that's a weird choice. Perhaps Mr Bosman could explain them a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u11	The choice is up to the island itself. I think that we should emphasise this every time. There are public and democratic elections. There are State meetings there and there's a government and then we shouldn't overrule it. In the context of this discussion, I think it is essential that we discuss it here and disagree and that they also get involved in Aruba and Saint Martin. I would therefore not be surprised that this discussion has helped the dynamics that are now emerging. I'm fine with that, too. Only, I don't think it's my responsibility to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u12	When it comes to the money and when the drivers on Curaçao make a mess of it, the VVD is willing to intervene and then it always gets support from the SP. But now it's about people in the people's neighborhoods, while the Curaçao administration has been making a mess of things for decades. It makes people poison. I regret that if we then want to intervene, there is no support from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u13	Now an image is being sketched as if nothing would happen. Things are happening, which I consider to be very important and essential. In fact, for our part, we have said every time that if you need support, you can have it. Only, it's Curaçao's choice. It is also a growth process throughout the discussion. Then I say: are you going to work hard, start maintaining, start measuring, you will get all the support you want, that is not a problem. Again, it is not that we are stopping it here or that we think it should not happen, but we say that you will have all the support you need, but ask for it. In fact, I would like to point out the recent report in which the Prime Minister says: we want to get to work on this, we want to deal with it. Mr Rosaria of PAIS is working on it. I think that is a very good development. Then you have to be very careful to say: then we have to take another step on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u14	I wonder if there's a deadline. We now hear from Mr Bosman that the island itself must solve it. What term would he consider reasonable? Of course, there are also rising care costs. The financial arguments are decisive for the VVD. Would there be a moment when the VVD says: if it is so polluted or if it takes so long, should we act as a kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u15	The discussion has now started on Curaçao. The authorisation shall not be renewed on the basis of future developments. They're just working on it. Then we can say that we have to set a date for this, but Curaçao itself is doing fine. In fact, the States are working on that now. I think that is a very important development. I regret that, as fellow Members of this House, we do not support it anymore, and that we say: well, these are good developments. I regret that we do not conduct the discussion in this way. There are always parties that have sister parties on the islands. At D66, that's PAIS. You can see PAIS taking all kinds of action there. I think that's very sensible. That seems to me to be a better development than a Dutch saying that we should intervene there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have asked whether there can be such a level of poisoning or a time-limit during which pollution and health risks persist that the Kingdom must intervene. Mr Bosman does not answer that. I do not understand that this is not the same reasoning as that in relation to finance. My colleagues have already asked the same question. I'm gonna make one last attempt at getting an answer. Why can there be an indication if it does not succeed financially? The islands themselves do not ask for it and is it not necessary if it does not succeed in the health or environmental field? This problem is not today or yesterday, but it has been going on for decades. We both know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u17	I would point out that this is a VAO, not a debate. The general consultation has already taken place. I would ask Mr Bosman to give a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u18	It's a very broad question. Good governance is essential for the VVD. It is the easiest way to monitor finances. Follow the money! If the finances are transparent, you'll notice that the board has to follow. And then the rest will follow underneath. The VVD doesn't look one-sided through a straw here. The VVD doesn't say it's just the finances. We all know that finances contribute to good governance. You have to restructure the business in such a way that you can get the drivers in the right shape. It is also a question of how the money is used and spent, where it comes from and how it gets back into the budget. That's all behind the ISLA, too. If you can follow all these things, a dynamic that is very important to the island will automatically emerge by looking at a straw and saying: we will take that for a while. I think it is essential that we are working in broad terms to strengthen the administration. This is crucial for Curaçao, and also for Aruba and for Saint Martin. We all have to do that. I think it is much more important that I now see this development in the States. It is said that we are also taking it up ourselves, because we do not accept it. I think that is a much more important signal than that we are going to discuss a date here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u19	The Netherlands has a guarantee function. Human rights and good governance are part of this. In 2005, when the Netherlands was still directly responsible, a study showed that 15 people died from pollution every year. The Netherlands has not put that responsibility aside and has just agreed to do so. We are now eleven years on and we are in 2016. When's the border reached? When will the Dutch government maintain and apply that guarantee function?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u20	The Netherlands is never directly responsible, never. That's a wrong statement. That needs to be clear. There is no such thing as direct responsibility. If it is said that the Netherlands is directly responsible, that is not true. That is, on the basis of the Statute, the National Council of Ministers. The guarantee function may be discussed. This is the case if there is no longer any redres, if there are no developments in the direction of improvements. Look at what's happening on the island right now. Steps are being taken towards the judge. The cabinet is looking at the transition to gas. The States find the current state of affairs unacceptable. The licence will be discontinued and new licences will be discussed. Mrs Koşer Kaya can speak very loudly about the guarantee function, but it is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u21	My question is very simple. That's why I want a simple answer and not a long story. Eleven years have passed since 2005. Every year, people have died. They're poisoned and poisoned. When does the guarantee function of the Netherlands enter into with regard to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u22	It doesn't go in as far as we're concerned. It is essential that we keep the discussion on this issue sharp, because the guarantee function is not of the Netherlands. No agreement was made on that. Read the Staff Regulations and the explanatory memorandum. In this way, this is a discussion of nothing. If we take each other's measure in this way, then we must also know the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. Since 2005, it is clear that the ISLA refinery causes people to die every year on Curaçao. We don't want that. What the refinery releases is toxic. That is why we have co-signed Mr Van Raak's motion. I also have another motion. The content seems clear to me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Isla refinery is very outdated and presents major health and environmental problems;]] [[Considering that in 2019 the contract between Curaçao and the operator PDVSA expires and that this provides a natural moment for a new future for the Isla refinery;]] [[Considering that interesting alternatives to the Isla refinery are being devised by the population, but that these alternatives are unlikely to be able to be fully taken into account due to a lack of resources;]] [[calls on the government, knowledge and skills to provide alternatives from the population so that they can be fully developed;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koşer Kaya and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a need for a sustainable alternative redesign of the Isla complex, but this alternative still needs to be examined;]] [[whereas the European Investment Bank itself is prepared to subsidise such research and GreenTown has already developed plans to develop an alternative;]] [[calls on the Government, GreenTown, to provide a budget for the development of a sustainable alternative redevelopment of the Isla refinery complex in Curaçao and to inform the Chamber of its progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas maintaining the environmental standards applicable to the Isla refinery requires a well-equipped and trained environmental service;]] [[calls on the Government, in close consultation with Curaçao, to actively contribute to the enforcement of the environmental standards applicable to the Isla refinery and to ask the Central Environment Service to provide the necessary enforcement training for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the risks of climate change within the Kingdom are greatest for the Caribbean region;]] [[Whereas countries within the Kingdom should feel a shared responsibility for implementing the Paris Climate Treaty;]] [[calls on the Government, in good faith, to support the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten in the implementation of the agreements agreed in the Paris Convention on Climate Change,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-40]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-41]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u25	I was surprised that this debate started earlier than was on the agenda. That's why I wasn't there from the beginning. I'm glad I made my contribution at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u26	You were on time. We started early, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr. Chairman. Five motions have been tabled. Let me start with the first, namely the Van Laar c.s motion. in piece No. 38. That motion places me somewhat in a dilemma. I consider the operative part and the appeal made to the government to support policy. I am extremely active in this area at the moment, because I think the ISLA refinery is a dirty place and I would like to contribute to finding solutions. I have also recently called on the Dutch Minister of I and M to do so. A new development for you, perhaps, is that a project leader has been appointed to coordinate the activities on the Dutch side. That is Mr Van Dam, who is also here. Interdepartmental talks have been held and are continuing. The representative has just spoken to Mr Whiteman for an hour and a half. I have said before that I am willing to go to Curaçao in the short term to act actively on this point. I therefore consider what the operative part requires of me to support my policy. The motion, however, consists not only of that request to the government, but also of a number of statements, for example, that Curaçao is being mismanaged, that the government violates human rights and that this leads to deaths. Those are very far-reaching statements. I am sure that these will be considered offensive by the Curaçao government. With those statements in it, I cannot help but dissuade this motion, even with emphasis. If those statements were to go out and if the motion were to be limited to the operative part, I could leave it to the Chamber. I would add that, if the motion with these statements is adopted, it does not help me to carry out what the operative part requires of me. On the one hand, if you say to the government of another country in the Kingdom that one is in bad governance, causing death and committing human rights violations, and on the other hand, "I would like to think with you on an equal basis and cooperate with you to solve problems," that is not an ideal entry point. Without these statements in it, I would therefore be able to leave the judgment to the Chamber, but otherwise, unfortunately, I would have to advise against the motion. In the Koşer Kaya/Sjoerdsma motion to piece No. 39 as Minister of the Netherlands, I am asked to organise knowledge and skills for the people of another country. I think that's a little crazy. I'd like to provide that support, but to the country of Curaçao. But that should be done at the request of the country. As part of that, I would like to be prepared to make the population part of it. However, I am not going to turn directly to the people of another country if the government does not appreciate it. You'll end up in very weird relationships. In the Van Tongeren motion in part No. 40 the government is requested to subsidise a Curaçao organization...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u28	Is the Minister's opinion on the motion in part No. 39 "dissuade"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u29	Yes, I'd advise against that motion. In the motion in part No. 40 I am asked to subsidise a sympathetic organisation in Curaçao directly. This may fit in the pre-10-10 proportions, but not in the current proportions anymore. As the motion has now been formulated, I do not recommend its adoption. That does not apply to the Van Tongeren motion in part No. Forty-one in which I am asked to do what is actually also in the operative part of the motion for a resolution on item No. 38 is asked to make an active contribution in close consultation with Curaçao. I would like to leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber, assuming that this will then be done at the request of the Curaçao Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mrs Van Tongeren has another question about the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u31	I understand why the Secretary of State is dissuading the motion in this form. If I changed the operative part with "in good consultation" and "at the request of," would the Minister look at it differently? After all, I think we share the objective, so perhaps a different wording would work better? Only one alternative has been worked out at the moment and not this alternative. They are looking for a form of financial support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u32	You're talking about the motion in part No. 40, I presume?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u34	I am concerned that since 10-10, we have stopped providing direct budget support to other countries in the Kingdom. I would like to maintain that principle, otherwise the end will be lost. There are many very sympathetic organisations for children's rights and for all kinds of things in the other countries of the Kingdom. We no longer support them directly. So I wouldn't want to do that with this either. We're generally not being childish. For example, if we make expertise available and this is partly on the budget here, we will see if we can adapt a sleeve to that. But direct subsidies to organisations, even at the request of the local government, seem to me to be just outside the political context. I don't see, with all the sympathy for that organization, how we could do that. On the Van Tongeren motion in part No. 41 I shall therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber, with the comments I have made. The same applies, as far as I am concerned, to the Van Tongeren motion on item No. 42. That is, in fact, Article 36 of the Statute: the countries stand by each other. So if we can assist each other in achieving climate objectives, then I think that this can also bring added value to the Kingdom. So I'd like to leave that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u35	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this VAO. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
