ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Once again, we are getting signals that it is not working well with the education of refugee children. Yes, there are a lot of children going to school now, but the waiting times seem long and the problems with the field of education to bring it about are still there. Those signals are coming from the field of education. Every child has the right to education and it has the duty to attend education. This is extremely important for these children, but also for our society. We have discussed this extensively and frequently with this Secretary of State. I think we all agree on the importance. And yet it doesn't work. What I want from the Secretary of State is this. Can we get a written overview of the number of children waiting for education, the waiting times and their distribution and the solution to the problems? Can the Secretary of State undertake to ensure that within a month of arrival all refugee children are in the school benches? Theoretically, it should be 72 hours. We won't hold the Secretary of State to that, but that month seems only reasonable to us. I would like to ask the Secretary of State not to wait for schools to report, but to actively interfere with this problem, taking on a leading role and making themselves a problem owner, making sure that it becomes okay. This can, of course, be done together with organisations such as LOWAN, which indicates on their own website, to lack hands. Can the Secretary of State do anything about that? We have also said with the Voordewind/Voortman motion that less should be done with refugee children. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether it is progressing, whether it is less happening and whether the problem is being reduced? Can the Secretary of State comment on the complaint from the educational field that money for refugee children is often received late, that they have to wait a long time and that there are many uncertainties about tailor-made financing? Can the Secretary of State promise that in this urgent situation there will be an unconventional approach which minimises bureaucratic procedures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I think there is no difference between Mr Grashoff and me about the fact that all children, whether they have lived here for a long time or come from abroad, should go to school as soon as possible. The same applies to the refugee children who are being cared for in emergency care. There is a huge challenge. In this sense, I also find it rather acidic that it is precisely in the week in Heumensoord that a new school opens up to 600 students who have been kicked out of the ground in less than two months that it is said that education for refugee children is so difficult to get started. I do not think this does justice to all those people in the Netherlands who are working hard not only in the emergency shelter in Heumensoord, but also in all those other new emergency shelters to look for new forms of education and school. After all, you don't stomp a school out of the ground from one day to the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u3	And now the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u4	I prefer children to go to school as soon as possible. I am sticking to the EU Reception Directive, which provides for a period of three months. That's over a month. If it is possible within one month, I will gladly do so, but in Heumensoord, for example, we have seen that this takes more time. I can map this out for Mr Grashoff. In my previous letter I already indicated that this has some feet in the earth, because this requires a linking of files. I can send a letter to the Chamber before 1 April to give a little more insight into numbers of children in emergency care and in numbers of places realized.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u5	For the sake of clarity, it is not that we are doing injustice here to people who are all working very hard to get it done. It is clear, however, that within the Chamber there is a view that it is extremely important that it should be done quickly. We come to the conclusion that the Secretary of State has little direction in this regard. Perhaps the most striking answer is that he is finally prepared to send us a letter before 1 April. I think that is an unacceptable long term. I can imagine that there will soon be an overview of the state of play. If the Secretary of State can make a firm commitment that every child will be in the school benches within three months, I think that is too long, but at least we will have control over the matter and we can keep the Secretary of State to it. It is the responsibility of this Secretary of State to put it in order. I don't want to read on a website of an intermediary organization that they're shorthanded. The Secretary of State should have taken care of that with this organization. So please have that overview, but within an acceptable deadline: not before April 1st, but before March 1st. I would like to hear a firm commitment from the Secretary of State on the deadline. If he says "I guarantee three months," it's three months. I think that is far too long, but at least we have a hard point to address this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u6	The EU directive is what it is. It's going to take three months. I think that is a very good directive, which we should take as our starting point for the care of children. To date, everything has been focused on this. The other point has more feet in the earth. In December, I sent you a letter stating in detail what data we have and what you are asking for also calls for a linking of files. You know this isn't one-two-three due to care. I would like to do that, but that will take some time; so until April 1st. Until then, we're not on our hands. Every day we are ready for aldermen and school boards in the Netherlands who call us at new emergency shelter with the question "help us with the funding, with finding accommodation, with providing good education, also for these refugee children." I think that is where our first priority should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u8	I note that there is at least a solid difference in the perception of reality. The Secretary of State says this repeatedly. After all, he has said this before. I certainly do not doubt him as to his intentions, but I do wonder whether things are well arranged on the implementation side. Is there really an unconventional approach, so that people in the educational field quickly know where they stand and parties really cooperate effectively with each other to shorten that period? I have strong doubts about that. The Secretary of State has not been able to convince me on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u9	It is a sign that the Secretary of State says that the EU directive which states that education must be given within three months does he like, that he does and that he thinks that this is reasonable. I'd like the Secretary of State to say, as soon as we go over that 72 hours, all the alarm bells go off and there must be education immediately. That may well take one or two weeks, but it is not the case with my group that three months is used as a deadline. Cabinet policy has the effect of constantly moaning with children. In my view, this is one of the main reasons why education is not achieved. Is the Secretary of State prepared to plead in the Cabinet for the cessation of the bullshit with children and to give education to these children absolute priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u10	In December, I already promised to sit down with my colleague from V and J to see how we can limit the movement of underage children as much as possible. However, we are dealing with reality. At the beginning of November, for example, it became clear that in Heumensoord there are not only young men, but also 600 underage children. Setting up a school is not a matter of a snap with the fingers. I think it's great that aldermen and two school boards have put their backs on it. They've set up a new building in two months. They have ensured that teachers stand in front of the classroom and that items such as chairs, benches and teaching material are available. Since yesterday, the school is up and running. I hope that Mr Van Meenen agrees with me that this deserves a great compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u11	You may ask your second question, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u12	My second question is also about this. This is a well-known strategy of the Secretary of State. If something goes wrong somewhere at all, he points to an example where things are going well. Of course, the example of Heumensoord is an example in which things are going well. People really took everything out of there to provide education as soon as possible. Because it was such a large number, it was after a long time. However, it has everything to do with government policy, because the cabinet still chooses to make large-scale provision. Is the Secretary of State prepared to plead with his colleagues in the cabinet for a more small-scale reception? This is not only in the interests of education. Education can then be provided by existing schools and no schools need to be demolished. After all, we already have 6,000 in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u13	Heumensord isn't on its own. Also in Weert, Dommelen, Hapert and Budel is working very hard to provide good education. One emergency shelter isn't the other. There are large emergency shelters such as Heumensoord, where a large school must be founded. There are also small emergency shelters where there is no need to accommodate children at a new school to be set up, because they can get a place in mainstream education. It's usually faster. There are asylum seekers' centres where schools are on the ground. So the challenge we face is not uniform. Every time she asks for a specific approach. Schools that can't get out of their way with the regular scheme can always ring the bell with us. Additional funding for newcomers is available. We will then sit around the table together to see if we can find a pragmatic solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u14	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u15	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u16	I understand that we could have a President who insists that answers are also given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u17	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u18	I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u19	I thought that debate would not take place until tomorrow, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u20	I'm getting ahead of that. This point also applies to the other candidates. My question was whether the Secretary of State is prepared to plead in the cabinet for small-scale care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u21	I think the answer to that may be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u22	I regularly sit down with my colleagues, but I do not think we can be picky at the moment when it comes to emergency care. We must make every effort to ensure that the refugees entering our country have a place at all. It really goes too far to be picky and say: we only want small shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u23	It is essential for these children who have been through a lot at an early age to go to school as soon as possible. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State to show even more decisiveness and to put a little more effort into it. I hear from schools that they do not yet have the teaching boxes and the teaching material, that they need additional support in the field of trauma processing and that they do not yet have any clarity about the funding and need to advance money. What can the Secretary of State do on these three points? How can he remove these obstacles?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u24	Send them to me, please. There are also schools that say they're getting into trouble. Then I think, "Come, because we're here for a reason to help you." We supported the LOWAN. If more support is needed to provide, for example, good teaching material or trauma support, then I am more than willing to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u25	My question is somewhat along the lines of Mrs Ypma's. We talked about this matter last month. The Secretary of State then generously made all kinds of commitments to education to come to him with questions and problems. How many schools have used this so far? Have contacts with the schools concerned led to new suggestions for measures or solutions that could speed up the process of organising education for asylum children?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u26	Not all schools come to my ministry because we have had an extra funding scheme for asylum seekers for years. A lot of schools can get out of their way with that. The schools that are knocking on our door are schools that say that this arrangement is breaking down or that they can't get away with it. Since we announced that, 50 primary schools and 48 secondary schools have been knocking on our door to ask if they are eligible for tailor-made funding. In the meantime, we have a number of concrete applications: thirteen in primary education and about 15 in secondary education. I suspect that this number will increase in the next two weeks because the deadline for applying for secondary education is 23 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
