ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. After five years of zero, this year, officials will be given a salary increase for the first time. Police officers, teachers and military personnel are improving in 2016. After all these years of crisis, that's well deserved. Even though part of the salary increase is a cigar out of their own box and they build up less pension, the lower pension premium provided room for higher salaries. Last week, however, the ABP civil servants' pension fund decided to increase the premium precisely because the fund is not in good shape. This costs the government 245 million euros. D66 sees the danger that the cabinet will make additional cuts because Minister Plasterk has already spent the premium reduction without taking into account this premium increase. If education or the police have to pay the premium increase out of their own pocket, it's the same as a cut. That leads to larger classes and less blue on the street. D66 doesn't want that. How is the cabinet going to pay this premium increase? I do not want the answer that the cabinet is going to look at this in the spring. I want to know if the minister's gonna stand for the teachers and the cops. Can the Minister guarantee that the premium increase will not be at the expense of the teacher, the agent and their workload? Will the cabinet compensate employers, namely education and the police, for the increase in contributions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, many people working in the public sector will be able to look at their pay slip this week, as there is a clear increase in pay. In many sectors, €500 has also been paid once. After four years, it was indeed high time that this happened. I would like to stress that the wage-area agreement and the collective agreements concluded on the basis of it are standing. Mrs Koşer Kaya now asks about the fact that the ABP has reported its intention to decide on 28 January to increase the premium. As far as I am concerned, that intention is not yet fully established. It's been brought out. I will use the next two weeks to intensify the discussions that are already taking place with various people in the ABP Pension Room, which are the employers' and employees' organizations, in anticipation of a decision to be taken on the possible increase in the premium. If a decision is taken, I will also discuss its consequences. I'd like to map it and see what we can do with it. I am not going to anticipate that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	The ABP has already indicated, and the Minister also says, that the premium is going to be increased because of the 245 million. Then the Minister can't say that we just have to wait and see if that's going to happen. The ABP doesn't just say this. There's definitely something going on. So I want to know if the Minister is going to compensate for that 245 million. I want the guarantee that this will not be at the expense of the officer and the teacher. They shouldn't get that cut on their plate. Can the Minister state clearly that he is going to give that compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	As I said, I do not want to anticipate what will happen if such a decision is taken on 28 January. I hope Mrs Koşer Kaya agrees with me that the opposite cannot be the case either. There is no way that employers and employees in the public sector can agree on the pension premium, the consequences of which would automatically and completely fall on the state budget. This would also be unfair to those who, through taxes, contribute to the rich budget, but who do not work in the public sector. There is no such thing as automatism, but I assume Mrs Koşer Kaya shares that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	Apparently, the minister has been taught and thinks, "I'm not going to ask you to do that." This only goes a little further than asking like-than-then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	I figured that out myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	Can I finish my sentence? The ABP has already made it very clear that the premiums are going to be increased and such a fund does not just do that. I want to know from this minister, and my question isn't that complicated, is he going to compensate, yes or no? Otherwise, I can only observe that this minister leaves the teacher and the agent in uncertainty and offers no solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	The question isn't that complicated, but neither is the answer. I am therefore waiting for the decision to be taken, and I will understand in the course of this process with members of the Pension Chamber and the ABP, i.e. the employers' and employees' organisation. If a decision is taken, we will talk to these organisations to see what the consequences will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	Then I'll be back here, because we can't leave the teacher and the cop in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u10	I hope the agent will tear open the envelope with his paycheck with interest this week and see the consequences of the payspace agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u11	I do not quite understand why there would be any doubt about that extra supplement because everyone saw it coming in advance. There will be. What amazes me more is: why such a low contribution from the government? If you compare it with the market sector, this looks much more like an extra selection from the pension fund. In this way, the pension fund really is not filled enough. I think this makes it even more difficult for ABP to index while that is what everyone is really waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u12	If I understand correctly, Mr Krol has the opposite concern of Mrs Koşer Kaya. But that's the same thing. The wage allocation agreement states that the premium to be charged may, of course, be and must be cost-covering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u13	This brings to an end oral Question Time.
