ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u1	We were ready to be answered by the Secretary of State, to whom I am happy to give the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I had to leave the meeting this morning for a moment. That was not because of a lack of interest, but because the message reached me that the deputy of North Holland, Mr Tjeerd Talsma, died suddenly after a short and very severe illness. That is someone with whom we have of course worked a lot from our department, especially with regard to Schiphol and the interests of the inhabitants of North Holland. He was a tough driver, with heart for the people, and also a proud social democrat. I wish his family and friends all the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u3	Of course, the Chamber is very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u4	Sure. I intend to answer all questions in three large blocks. First of all, there is a whole block about the climate, the circular economy and a safe living environment. Then comes the block of rail and public transport. Last but not least comes the block of aviation. For me, this is a special budget, because this is my first and last budget in this cabinet period. This means that this budget is also the first I and M budget on which I have been able to exercise influence from my own point of view. I have every reason, of course, to look to the future with confidence, but at the same time you can see that there are really big challenges ahead of us on a lot of issues for which I am responsible. This will also be reflected in the reply. There is a great deal to be done in that regard. This day is also a bit special, because a year ago I was sworn into this position. So you could say I became one today. The secretary-general noted that I was very early in the day for someone of that age. Thanks! I would also like to join with the words of thanks which the Minister has expressed towards the people of the department. I've experienced it myself. I came in at a time when it literally stormed, not only outside but of course also on the premises of my wallet. I am sure that without their support, the support and indulgence that I may experience every day from our people, it would not have become anything at all. So I am very grateful for that. I'm going into the climate now. Last year we concluded a historic climate agreement. Tomorrow, on 4 November, this Treaty will enter into force at European level. What has happened a lot in barely a year! Many spokesmen have referred to the fact that last week we had a very successful and very optimistic climate summit in Rotterdam. Someone said that I had noticed that it was "a sweet summit"; that was because of a remark from the NOS, which framed the top as "a sweet summit." I confirmed that. I think Mrs Van Tongeren said something about that. There's enough hate in the world, but "a sweet top" doesn't mean that we sit back and think it's all right. There's a lot to be done. I am also very pleased with the agreement recently concluded in Kigali on the hfk's. Of course, that's a very mean thing. We have already taken very great steps in this area in Europe. It is really necessary for the world to follow in it now. In my view, that treaty is equivalent to the conclusion of some 250 coal plants. This has received relatively little attention in the Netherlands, but after December in Paris and after Montreal, where the first sectoral climate agreement for aviation was concluded, this was obviously a third important step within a year. This year we have come up with the national programme for the circular economy. We have a regulation on the elimination of asbestos in roofs; questions have also been asked about this. Recently, we have also sent the Chamber a letter on the substance policy, in which we are working together with industry to draw up so-called road maps, safety agendas. Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Ouwehand have asked me: what is your commitment to climate policy in the near future? I think we can see together that the urgency is very high. The warrior on behalf of the UN, Christiana Figueres, said a few months ago that all important decisions to comply with the agreements we, all the 195 countries, made last year, will have to be taken in the next five years. There's a huge urgency. You can see this, for example, by the fact that at the climate summit the big boys and girls are still a lot of guys from the business unite in as many as 40 companies, and that number is growing, have called for the energy transition to be speeded up from the Netherlands. That is a huge support for the cabinet. That's how I experience it. From local policy to global policy, you can see that we are taking more and more steps. I call the launch of the CO-smart grid. It's about storing and using CO. Last week we saw that no less than 100 municipalities together with provinces want to switch to gas-free neighbourhoods. New agreements have been made between the government and companies on energy saving. We have taken the motto of our climate summit, "bring Paris home," as a starting point for our work in Marrakesh in two weeks' time. Until early December, we will work on a raw materials agreement. This will also contribute to the reduction of CO. The cabinet, of course, has committed itself not only to the Paris agreement, but also to the European measures and agreements that result from it. We are now getting an increasing picture of what this means, both for the ETS sectors and for the non-ETS sectors: mobility and agriculture. The task is indeed enormous, just if you wish to implement the European objectives we have now agreed on. It seems like people think it's gonna be easy, but I'd like to contradict that. In many areas, everything will have to change, whether it is about mobility, the way in which we set up our energy supply in homes or the fact that our industry is still too dependent on fossil energy, if you like. It is good to note that we in the Chamber are no longer discussing whether or not we should. The discussion will focus at most on time and pace and on how cost-effective measures are. That is what I consider to be the great gain since December last year in the debate on the environment and climate. I sincerely hope that we in the Cabinet will manage to seize that profit together with the Chamber. This means that we will build on the energy agreement which Minister Kamp has drawn hard. I would like to say that this agreement is a turning point in history. I know that it is often criticised, but from Greenpeace to business people were at the table. I think that Minister Kamp has achieved something there that will really change history. From my position, I would like to say that I am very honored to be able to work on this with him. We also do this with local authorities on many points, including in the field of heat. We will therefore have to achieve the objectives of Paris together. The bill to ratify the agreement has now been submitted to the Chamber. I look forward to the treatment of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u5	I'm sure you're going to say a lot more about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u6	You look very worried about that, Mr. Chairman. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u7	Let me take a look at Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals and ask whether this is the time to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u8	It doesn't happen often, but you're bringing me genuine doubt, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, I'm doing it anyway, because I find the Secretary of State's introduction very inspiring. I also congratulate her on stressing the urgency and repeating the words that the next five years will be crucial to achieving the goals by 2050. However, I want to test how real that is. The Secretary of State says that fortunately the discussion is no longer about whether it should be done and what should be done, but only about time and pace. Then there'll be one test case. These are the advice of the planning agencies to intervene drastically in agriculture. The Secretary of State is well aware that this also means reducing livestock. It would be wonderful news if there were indeed no more discussion about whether or not that should be done and how. Then we would agree on that and only talk about time and pace. What does the Secretary of State say to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u9	At the moment, we are having the PBL assess the significance of the task that comes to us from Europe and to agriculture, and what type of measures are needed. In doing so, we do have room to shift tasks between sectors, for example, if we meet our percentages. We also have time to implement measures a little longer if necessary. But that this also brings about a change for agriculture, which has a lot of knowledge to produce climate-smart, is unmistakable. However, it is up to the Netherlands to determine how agriculture will comply with this change. That is precisely why we have a great deal of knowledge in the agro-industry. Mrs Ouwehand knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u10	You've only just begun, Madam Secretary of State, but are you paying attention to the abbreviations? The PBL came by again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u11	That's the Planning Office for the Environment, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u12	Yeah, the public gallery's filling up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u13	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u14	This answer from the Secretary of State is precisely why I am asking the question. Because we know this story. Our knowledge of agriculture can indeed help to reduce the impact of agriculture on the climate elsewhere. But the discussion is about the fact that the planning agencies, the consultancies, say that drastic intervention is necessary and that shrinking of livestock is essential. Is the Secretary of State prepared to say today that this will be one of those drastic choices that we no longer need to discuss? I understand that there is a discussion about how precise, time and pace, but does the Secretary of State believe that there is a consensus today on the need for drastic intervention in agriculture and the need to reduce livestock?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u15	I do not think it is fair to anticipate one sectoral plan now, except that I have made it clear that there is a prospect of change for all sectors, including agriculture. I would point out to Mrs Ouwehand that this cabinet is already working on this. I am now being hampered by knowledge, but there is a very large plan for sustainability in pig farming, for example. This will result in more quality being organised and not everyone continuing to do the work they do. But it is organized in a way that is responsible to the people in the sector and to society as a whole. I think that this kind of discussion is too much in black and white. That change is coming. But let us also note that the way we produce, compared to countries around us, we often make a very positive contribution to the environment, for example per unit of production. Not everyone is happy about that, but those are facts. We certainly need to have that discussion, but we need to do it precisely and on the basis of proposals, not in black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mrs. Ouwehand, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to test the situation on this point. The Secretary of State is right that it is a bit crazy to zoom in on one sector. But I wanted to make it clear how concrete and how clear we are today about how these drastic choices are going to look. As far as I am concerned, I have been given sufficient information. I disagree with the Secretary of State on this point, but more will follow later on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u18	I regret that, because we are absolutely specific about the objectives. These are sharp, namely a reduction of CO emissions in the coming years, with European objectives and with a preview........................................................................................................................................................... This scenario deals with all kinds of issues, on which there is absolutely no agreement here in the Chamber, for example the storage of COThat I can mention. Those techniques will be necessary in those types of scenarios. These discussions are all about to come, I say to Mrs Ouwehand. I'm not afraid of that, but I do want to carry them carefully on the basis of plans and I want to discuss it with the people about who it is. In his contribution, Mr Dijkstra said that we must continue to work for support. I think that is important and I would very much like to do so, because we are already dealing with a climate crisis in parts of the world after the financial and economic crisis that we have had. We agree on that. But getting people into the change that that will bring with them in their lives, I also see as a task for politicians. I'll always work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u19	I have a question about the commodity agreement. I have rightly heard the Secretary of State say a great deal about the energy agreement. Many parties are involved in this. There will now be a commodity agreement. The Secretary of State has previously indicated in an AO that she wants to take this forward and generously. We're gonna see something about that in December. How generous will that be? Is there a strong interest from environmental organisations and business? To what extent will this interest be taken generously? And how generous will it be? I would like to know the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u20	There is a great deal of interest in this. There are already a number of very large companies that have organised themselves and have applied to participate, for example AkzoNobel. I'm very optimistic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u21	I have one final question: what will the Chamber see in December as regards the agreement on raw materials?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u22	The Chamber will see the agenda and the objectives. The development will take place in sector-by-sector transition plans which will follow in the coming years. For example, we will also involve the ESC.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u23	When will that take place in December?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u24	For the Christmas tree. That's the safest option.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u25	I have an interruption at the same point. A motion from me was adopted last week, calling for Minister Kamp.......................................................................................................................................................................................... My specific question to the Secretary of State is: is this also on the agenda that she is going to send us in December?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u26	I haven't seen the motion come by myself, I have to be honest. Can I come back to this in second term? In any case, I think it is right to say here that we are also, of course, looking at the way in which the petrochemical industry can contribute. It is a type of industry for which it will be very difficult to contribute. Of course, we think hard about this in our department, together with the people of EZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u27	Let me get this straight: what is the motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u28	It is a motion adopted last week in the EZ budget. In it, the Minister is asked to examine with the various players the chemical industry and the petrochemical industry, but also the energy companies, how out of the 4 billion we spend on biomass, part can also contribute to the structural strengthening of the Dutch economy, for example through an ingrowth path for the cascading of biomass. This is very important for the chemical industry. That's what the motion was about. This could be one of the points that the Secretary of State might wish to involve in her agenda which she presented to us in December. That is why I would like to have a second-term reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u29	In that case, I would like to point out that the Minister has the lead in this case. I imagine he will respond in writing to the motion tabled. I will see if I can say something about it or if I disappoint Mrs van Veldhoven in the second term in the sense that she has to be patient for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u30	If we go from climate to raw materials...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u31	Well, I hadn't actually ended up there myself, but the Chamber is leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u32	Not if you talk through it. Mr. Dijkstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u33	One of the great things is that these 10 billion people will all want to eat later. We've just talked about agriculture. An important part of food supply and food security is phosphate as a scarce raw material. We can see that this is being handled vigorously abroad, because there is an objective there. I asked a question about this, but I found the response in the written reply rather brief. I think that's weird. Abroad, however, there are targets for this scarce raw material. In the Netherlands we have goals for all these other things like glass, wood and plastic. Why do we not have a target for phosphate? Given the technology, it's quite possible. Why not set a target of 60%, 70% or 80%? In this way, we can promote circularity and protect and preserve this scarce raw material that is essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u34	The answer in the written text may have been brief, but certainly not negative. From my memory, I say that we have given this order and have addressed the question of how we could handle it. If I understand the call in such a way that we have to get to work on it, the answer is yes, that is what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u35	I see this as a commitment to tackle it ambitiously and also to look at the current state of technology, because I believe that there is much more to it than is currently thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u36	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u37	Perhaps a little further on from Mr Dijkstra's last point: when can we look forward to that? The CDA has also asked for phosphate more often. The answer can also be given in the second term, but I would like to know when we can expect it. The Secretary of State has discussed the raw materials. We think it is important that we receive this agenda and its objectives in December. Can we read back how the policy for top sectors in the Netherlands, the energy agreement and the world targets has been matched? If we do not look at this as comprehensively as possible, we may still miss the boat, especially our business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u38	Certainly, because if you implement the raw materials agreement properly and really get the circular economy going, it will make a major contribution to reducing C0 emissions in the long term. I can well imagine that I will return to both points in the letter on the raw materials agreement that we have foreseen for December. In doing so, I will indicate the time limit that we think we need for phosphate in order to be able to take real steps. I shall then turn to the question of technology and its progress, which Mr Dijkstra raised. Furthermore, I will also highlight the relationship with both the top sectors policy and the envisaged C0 decline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u39	We also have the goals of the world for which Minister Ploumen is working. I think it is important to look at this in its entirety, also because we are going to set up an energy transition facility, a beautiful financial instrument. That should help with this. I therefore hope that this integrity will also be included in the energy transition facility, otherwise we may still miss the boat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u40	I have to be careful not to tie everything to everything, because I know the seventeen sustainable development goals. With some of them we are working to shape them in the Netherlands. There will be a separate report to the Chamber on the facility discussed by Mrs Mulder, both by the Minister for Economic Affairs and by the Minister for Finance. I don't know by heart what their timing is; I'll look into it. But I will come back to that and, of course, we can still talk about it in the debate following that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u41	In the letter on the energy transition facility which we received from the Secretary of State and the Minister for Economic Affairs, this was precisely one of the bottlenecks that must be resolved. At a time when the agenda does not address this at all in September, I think you can have a beautiful agenda, but then it does not become very concrete. I hope the Secretary of State will respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u42	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u43	At least it's a wonderful scrabble word: energy transition facility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u44	Double word value. I will go a little further on the questions that have been raised about climate and climate policy. We see that adaptation is very important in addition to mitigation. This means that funding, capacity building and adaptation as such should also be in balance for other countries. The Netherlands is also engaged in international cooperation, also outside the UN circuit, because one of the reasons why the Paris Convention was probably successful is that we have worked so well with non-governmental actors, business and non-governmental organisations and they were part of that treaty. Mrs Mulder asked how all countries would be monitored to ensure compliance with the climate agreement. The Paris agreement is to strengthen transparency on the actions of countries in the field of emission reductions. This is going to apply to all the countries participating, including the developing countries. This is actually the first negotiation in Marrakesh, because that meeting will be the first time we talk about the implementation of the Treaty. That therefore requires a firm commitment on this point, because you can agree on a very nice goal but if you let compliance control water down, you have a problem. Several Members, Mr Smaling, Mrs Dik-Faber, have spoken about how we ensure longer-term policy. How do we ensure that companies have investment security over the cabinet period? Many different suggestions have been made for this. There is broad public support for meeting the Paris climate goals. For example, at the Climate Summit, 40 companies said that they would like to convert the Convention into a climate law. They were consistently long-term policies and investment security. I would like to point out that a robust system of security and decision-making over the cabinet period is desirable. A climate law can work, but there are more possibilities. You can think of a long-term agreement that is totally focused on CO reduction, after the end of the energy agreement and similar. You can also think of a combination of a law and an agreement. It has been said that there might need to be a climate commissioner. The WRR has suggested that there could be a climate authority. Minister Kamp also mentioned this last week during his budget debate. He said that the cabinet is currently looking at the different options and that we will send the energy agenda to the Chamber in the first half of December. In this we will focus on governance. How are we going to provide long-term security for companies, citizens, municipalities, the Empire itself and everyone else involved? We did not settle that discussion today, but we will return to it this year in the Chamber. The spokesmen have given a lot of advice, but others have also issued many opinions in recent weeks. We all want to take them and weigh them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u45	I am very curious to see what will come to us from the cabinet. It is good to see the need, as with business and civil society organisations, to develop long-term policies. I don't have a question, but I'd like to encourage the Secretary of State. I feel that climate policy is being narrowed very much by this cabinet to energy transition. That would be a shame. Energy transition is necessary, but we can do much more. We've already talked about circular economy. I would therefore like to say to the Secretary of State: take your role from the Ministry of I and M. It's about the climate, not just about energy. It's wider. I would like it very much if the climate is at the top of the page and that there is a vision coming to the Chamber from the Ministry of I and M, and not primarily from EZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u46	I don't think this kind of thing is ever about the question of who's steering it, but what's on the Chamber's mat is good. I would like to use Mrs Dik-Faber's encouragement to show in the course of my story that I am already doing so. We've come up with a state-wide programme of Circular Economy. I myself agreed on mobility in bus transport and making zero emissions of all buses in the Netherlands in 2025, thanks to and with strong support from local authorities. In many cases, action is needed and taken. Mrs Dik-Faber is right that it is not enough. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u47	We're going to listen to the rest of the story first, unless Mrs. Van Veldhoven now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u48	Very briefly. The Secretary of State mentioned the buses. The Chamber is very interested in this, as the Secretary of State knows. What about the roll-out? I understand that there was sometimes a financial bottleneck and that there might have been a need for an extension of concessions. How's it going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u49	I'll discuss that in the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u50	Isn't it useful if we let the Secretary of State keep her story first? All that stuff comes back in there. She is far from ready, even in the area of climate. Let's start with that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u51	I have just come to Mr Smaling and his question as to how the Rijkswide programme Circular Economy is moving at the rate needed to reduce CO. As I said, the circular economy simply contributes to the implementation of the Paris agreements. TNO has already calculated something very hopeful about this. This shows that the efficient handling of raw materials results in a reduction of more than 9% of total Dutch emissions. So there's real work to be done. If we do that right, we can make a big impact. Mrs Cegerek asked me to look at financial instruments for the circular economy. We need all parties, energy and resources very much. The funds of the old Waste Fund, EUR 27 million, have been used for a large number of actions. And that is not just something, because most of the time Minister Dijsselbloem looks very closely at resources that remain. I have just referred to the new national funding institution in the debate with Mrs Mulder. Many existing support tools, such as the SDE+, can be used for the circular economy programmes. European funding is also available for research and knowledge development. I refer to the Juncker Fund. In this respect, there is a range of financial opportunities to make good work of this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mrs Cegerek, I have just asked Mr Smaling to wait. Now let's give the Secretary of State some room. After that, you'll all have your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mrs Dik-Faber asked for my commitment in Europe to the European package on the circular economy. The Commission has already taken a number of steps. The waste package and the Fertilisers Regulation have been published. The Action Plan and the Council conclusions announce actions for the next few years. The Commission will propose measures, including the Ecodesign work plan. We have recently understood that this has been delayed. So I'm just gonna wait and see what comes out of it. As soon as this is known, the Cabinet will inform the Chamber of its commitment. We are, of course, also working actively on our own. We urge the Commission and the other Member States to be ambitious and speedy. We contribute to the European platform for the circular economy and we also help other countries with our knowledge and skills. For example, we will soon be going to Indonesia on a climate trading mission. There, for example, will be the whole of waste management and the way in which it could get a place in Jakarta. We have the North Sea Resources Roundabout. That is an international green deal for which I am looking at Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Cegerek, who have come a great deal of support from the Chamber to fight something like this for each other. We did it. Of course, we would very much like to make more international green deals. The day before yesterday, Mrs Ouwehand had a very compelling story in five points, in which she drew attention to the policy changes that she considered necessary to make serious work of climate policy. She asked about the commitment to sustainable consumption. She said the taboo should be removed. This morning I happened to see in the social media a message from Early Birds that less meat had been eaten in the Netherlands for the fifth year in a row. My impression is not that there is a taboo in the Netherlands about the question of what your own contribution is, for example, if you eat meat, about environmental pollution. There is, of course, some discussion, which I understand very well, about the extent to which the government is binding, if not directing. The cabinet has always said that it wants to encourage and motivate people to make green choices. The cabinet also wants to do hand-outs in information, but to say it very flat, it doesn't come in the fridge. The choices are up to the citizens themselves. I also did not hear Mrs Ouwehand recommend it herself. That freedom is there for the citizens. Know what you eat and know what your contribution can be. Know also what you can do, for example by alternating meat and vegetarian, to reduce your own environmental pressure. On the contrary, there are a lot of initiatives in this area. I agree with the words about focus on sustainability in education. In a previous position, I did indeed object to the flood of teaching packages, particularly in primary education of pupils, especially teachers and teachers. A lesson package should not be a waste of time in which you express your social problem in a beautiful handy leaflet after which education has to solve it. That's not the point. Yes, education needs to focus on sustainability. That is in the core goals, as well as in many of the packages. Sustainability, however, also requires a change in mentality. That is one of the reasons why we are going to pay extra attention to schools in the circular economy package. That is about things like how we deal with waste separation. I'll say a little more about that later. We also co-finance SustainableDoor. EZ takes care of most of it and we only take care of a little bit, but we'll do it. It's a modest amount, but I can only spend my money once. I think that program's going well. Mr Dijkstra asked for obstacles to the introduction of the energy performance compensation. Do housing corporations have the space to take the small label steps that, according to Mr Dijkstra, are most profitable and beneficial to the tenant? There is no obstacle to the introduction of the energy performance compensation. It's on September 1st last. entered into force. The epv is intended for the regulated rental sector, in addition to rent, to charge a fee for very energy-efficient housing, for example zero-on-the-meter housing. I've been to those properties recently. I can say that they really are a fantastic phenomenon, which is very successful. For citizens, it means seeing the quality of their homes improve and the energy bill fall. Well, what more do you want? At the request of the Chamber, an exploration was made to apply the energy performance fee also to lower energy efficiency, such as when taking label steps. We have requested this information from BZK. I say to Mr Dijkstra that the lead lies there, with Minister Blok. The information has shown that the introduction is subject to a number of objections and is, above all, very complicated. It's under investigation now. The Minister for W and R indicated that the results of those investigations will be available in 2017. I'm assuming he'll let us know how he's going to proceed with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you for this answer, but I also like to see this in relation to the climate and the CO targets we have. The housing corporations have a wide range of houses in the built environment, where there is a great challenge. Does I and M have a role there, given the climate objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u55	Of course, we are constantly helping other departments from our responsibility for the climate. The zero-on-the-meter projects are an example of this. I made a work visit to that. We're also looking to help remove obstructive regulation, but the lead at this point really lies with W and R. I come to the subject of environment and health.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u56	Do you have a question on the previous subject, Mrs Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u57	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I thought the minister was gonna finish the climate block and let us interrupt afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u58	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u59	I have two questions, if you'll allow me. The first is about sustainable education. It is true that the Secretary of State has objected to the flow of teaching packages. I remember that. I don't think it should be like that. In the meantime, however, the Chamber has adopted a motion on the Convention on Sustainability in Education. The Ministry of I and M is working on that. I asked the Secretary of State an explicit question about the impact plan. The Chamber held a round table, organized by the Party for Animals. All experts agree on what needs to be done: to establish a link between these fine initiatives and the schools. The young people have worked out that plan. Will the Secretary of State support that? My second question is about consumption. I know the government's position and I am glad that the Secretary of State no longer says: yes, but we are not going to ban meat. That's what she was suggesting that I would have asked. That's not true. I do think the cabinet is doing too little. It is true that more and more people choose to eat less meat. That is beautiful, but our consumption of meat as a whole is still unsustainable. In this respect, I ask the Secretary of State to show courage and, with respect for the freedom of choice of people, to make use of the opportunities that exist to facilitate and encourage people to make more sustainable choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u60	As far as sustainable education is concerned, I think it is wise that I should simply understand the Minister for Education and that I should discuss with her the way in which we can respond to the young people's plan in terms of content. That is what the young people deserve, and that is what the subject deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u61	Beautiful. Can the Secretary of State say anything about the time limit for informing the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u62	I think that's what we're doing for the spring recess. I will take a look at my own agenda and at the time needed for consultation between the departments. We will have a few environmental issues in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u63	Great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u64	On the second point, we disagree. I do not agree with you that we are doing nothing or too little. I think we do a great deal in our information. I think the departments themselves are doing a lot. The meatless mondays have been raised by your group and they are just there now. I would also point out how we are helping to start the protein transition in the Netherlands and financially support it. Many policies have been taken in recent years, from information to support, sometimes also financially, good initiatives to make that better choice. If you don't think that goes far enough, you'll end up in a different type of measure at some point. The cabinet has indeed said that we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u65	Well, then there's a little disagreement. I recognise that time and money are being invested in a transition to more plant proteins, but it is really too thin, given the challenge that lies ahead. That is what I was concerned about, because the Secretary of State himself said at the climate summit: it is not going to be easy. That's what she says today. There really needs to be more. The Minister says that we respect freedom of choice, but we can really give people a boost to ensure that they avoid rush hour. It actively pursues this policy, not just for a group of people who are already interested, for example in more sustainable consumption. She's doing more. I do not want to say that the Secretary of State for the Environment is a bit backward in terms of consumption, food, but too little is happening. The first period during which...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u66	Would you like to cut to the chase?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u67	Yes, let me give you a concrete example. Former Environment Minister Cramer said on this point: it is actually good if we turn the norm: vegetarian becomes the norm; anyone who wants meat should ask for it. Then you still respect the freedom of choice...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mrs Ouwehand, these are all speeches. Get to the point!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u69	... butyouputitthroughtothe Ministry. Why isn't that a policy in the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u70	I think it is precisely our ministry that has a lot of green picks on a lot of dossiers. Apart from that, I think we have a little disagreement, as Mrs Ouwehand called it. It's okay, but it's not about the urgency that's underneath. You can differ about customization, about the approach, about effectiveness mostly. This morning we saw that the Dutch for the fifth year in a row are making increasingly greener choices in their food patterns. Then, apparently, the Netherlands is doing something right. Yes, we support these choices with many initiatives, measures and, if you like, incentives. I think that is quite a package. For a moment now, we do not entirely agree on this point. Happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u71	I will explain in my second-term contribution what else can happen. So we are not finished with this discussion!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u72	I'll wait!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u73	I would like to point out to you all, therefore, that not only Mrs These should consist of brief comments or questions without introduction." We all really need to do it a little bit shorter. There's another treatment on the roll for today. Anyone can interrupt, but can you please cut it short and make it more businesslike?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u74	Thank you for reminding us. Is it not this Secretary of State, who is responsible for the climate, that there is no support for a minimum CO price at the Ministry of Economic Affairs? We all know that the Emissions Trading System in Europe is not working. We've been working for years to improve that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u75	And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u76	... but very little is happening. I read the PvdA election program. I know that the Secretary of State is not here as a PvdA woman but as Secretary of State, but let's still choose a minimum CO price! We can introduce them with surrounding countries. Then we really took a step for the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mrs Dik-Faber is absolutely right: I am here as a servant of the Crown, as it is so beautifully called. In the cabinet, we are constantly in touch with each other on how to ensure that carbon gets an effective price. We also fully agree that the ETS can and must be improved. This is also something that we shared during the Dutch Presidency under my direction. I'm far from done with that. We will indeed have to continue to think about the 'what if': what if the European system is not going to work properly? But the most effective is a functioning European system. This prevents a waterbed effect. This means that the good things that we do here in a neighbouring country like Poland, I would like to mention, are compensated for by things that we do not want to see. That last possibility must be a thorn in Mrs Dik-Faber's eyes, because there you stand with your good behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u78	How much longer does the Secretary of State want to work on improving the ETS? When has the time come for her to try to achieve a minimum price with neighbouring countries? England, for example, has done the same. As long as the ETS does not yet work, there is therefore scope for other measures. The Netherlands must also assume its responsibility in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u79	The Netherlands must also take responsibility and carbon must be given a better price. These are the two basic points on which we agree from the left to the right. The next question is how best to do that. The most important thing is that we regulate it at European level, especially now that an ETS-like system is being developed in China in no less than seven regions. That's incredible, but true. This is also what is being done in Canada. They're working on it in California. They're talking about it in Mexico. You should not give up your current system when you would like to have such a system in other places in the world. You have to be critical of the way it works, but that's what we're doing. A number of rights will be withdrawn from the market. By creating scarcity in that market, we are constantly taking steps to make that price better and more efficient. I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that the gap between the current price, about €5 to €6 and the price it should be, probably €50, is very large. So I started by saying that we don't have a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u80	Mrs. Dik, would you like to ask another final question? As long as it's short!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u81	I welcome those last words, because we do not have much time left. Let us do one thing, so make a full effort to improve the ETS, but do not fail to do the other. Let us also look at other measures, as long as the ETS does not yet work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u82	I think that was a comment. I heard that one. We also discuss this in the Cabinet. We do, however, insist that it is precisely this international and European step that is most effective. You shouldn't just let go of it now, because then you might have a much bigger problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u83	Rich without CO is a very good advice from the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure. There's a little graph in there. By sector, it shows about how fast you can get to that CO-neutral level. My question is about the timetable and the enforceability per main sector. Does the Secretary of State have any idea about that, or do we have to wait for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u84	Yes, you have to wait for that, because we are in the middle of the debate for the ETS sectors, for example: how do we make ETS as effective as possible? It does have a relationship with that. In addition, we now know from Europe what percentage of the Netherlands has to meet for the non-ETS sectors: 36%. At the request of the Chamber, we asked the Planning Office for the Environment to identify what that means to us. Then we can also negotiate the package of measures that fits in with it by sector. That's gonna be a tough one, because there's a lot to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u85	Is it the government's ambition to follow the path of the European Union in terms of reducing emissions? Or are we more ambitious?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u86	I am always surprised at the ease with which everyone thinks that we will take that path from the European Union. For the non-ETS sectors alone, such as agriculture and mobility, you will soon see what rigorous changes that will require. The European path alone will not be easy for the Netherlands. And yes, there are two important points in the Paris Convention. Climate policy for the future, including Dutch policy, must be climate-proof in each of the sectors. If necessary, with a snapshot every five years, a stocktake in UN terms, we can see whether we are still on the right track and whether it should perhaps be more ambitious. I am not ruling that out, but the first discussion will take place in the Netherlands in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u87	Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that it would be the best thing for you to connect these systems worldwide and that you have one kind of price for carbon emissions worldwide?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u88	Yeah, that would be brilliant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u89	That's the ideal picture, but we're not there yet. It is good that recently in Montreal, aviation, which did not participate in the climate agreement at first, has now indicated its commitment to resource policy and pricing. How are we going to ensure that a party such as the KLM, which is already being taxed at European level and will soon be subject to double taxation throughout the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u90	I'll say something about it at the aviation block. The short answer is: we need to look at this with understanding and policy. We're not gonna let go of an old shoe while the new one isn't there yet. I will return to the Chamber and I would also like to talk to my fellow Members about it. Europe really has a pioneering position on this issue. Of course, we already have a working system. We're going to a global system. I fought hard myself in Montreal to get it done. This transition, that transition to that new system, must be made in wisdom with regard to the economic interests of the aviation sector and also with regard to the ecological importance of steps that represent something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u91	I agree with the Secretary of State, but you can't wear four shoes, two pairs at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u92	No, two do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u93	Exactly, so that's what we have to go for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u94	I just heard the Secretary of State say something about economic interests. I just saw the latest polls in America. Donald Trump could very well be president. Then the climate agreement goes into the trash bin; then America doesn't participate. Of course, that turns the whole affair upside down. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u95	Luckily, it's not that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u96	Maybe in a few days. If Donald Trump does indeed become President of America and America does not participate in that agreement, then surely that should not mean that our competitive position will be undermined. That will happen and that you have no idea what you are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u97	The great thing about these issues is that there are actually two wisdoms. The first one comes from my grandmother. If she had wheels then she was a bus, she always said to me: don't go into speculation about something you really have no idea where it ends. The second is that there is, of course, a democratic process in America. There's not only a president, there's also a congress and a house. They've signed an autograph. It's been ratified. So we just have to wait and see. Of course, I am looking as closely at what is happening as Mr Madlener did on 8 November. I think it's mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u98	You even said something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u99	That's right. But not too much, I guess. Or I hope. Mrs Cegerek, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Smaling asked about the WHO air quality standards and the extension of the action plan. I have said before that I think it would be a good idea in itself to use the Air Quality Action Plan a little more broadly than just for Amsterdam and Rotterdam, but above all to focus on the few places where we sometimes see that we do not meet European standards. I would like to say that we have been very successful here in recent years. Sometimes it doesn't seem like it when you read the papers. However, we have taken huge steps to improve air quality. In particular, European source policy is very important for this. We need to organize that properly. If we tighten up the standards for vehicles in Europe, we are currently working on them, and the government wants to do so ambitiously, it will have a huge impact on how we do it. The Health Council will give its opinion on air quality policy in 2017. On the last day of the Dutch Presidency, I myself brought in a strongly fought proposal on the NEC directive, the air quality directive. This will simply mean new steps for the Netherlands if we have the WTO targets in mind. Fortunately, the Netherlands is already very far away, even if you look at what our contribution should be on the basis of that directive. However, we have always said that we continue to strive for further improvement. This is something other than incorporating these targets into a law as a new directive. I'd say we just have to act frappez toujours. We have the European standards we have to meet. We almost meet that, but not everywhere. Hence the extra effort I've announced before. In the meantime, we will be able to take further steps in this new air plan, also on the basis of the NEC Directive and on the basis of what the Health Council is going to say about air quality and its impact on citizens. The question is what is still possible to move further and further towards these targets. Clean bus transport plays an important role in improving urban air quality. Mrs. Van Veldhoven just asked where we are. In the governance agreement last April, we stated that the ambition is to have all new buses emission-free from 2025. That's what was requested in a motion from her hand. We can see that in itself that goes very well. There are battery buses that charge at night on Schiermonnikoog and Schiphol. It's nice to mention it in one breath. In Noord-Brabant there are now 40 electric battery buses and Limburg 30. Amsterdam and Utrecht join the road. Amsterdam is going to make a whole part of its fleet emission-free. Utrecht replaces ten diesel buses with ten electric buses. Well, at least I didn't get any messages that it's hard. We had a lot of people at the table. The bus builders also participated in the agreement. So we've deployed it widely. Then I'll get to the rail and public transport block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u100	I don't know about that. Mrs. Mulder has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u101	I asked another question about sustainable shopping. I thought it might fit better in this block than in one of the other two. But maybe there'll be another block of residual questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u102	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u103	Then I'd like to ask the following question. Monitoring or benchmarking agreements have not yet been reached with local authorities, and this is important for companies that want to be sustainable. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. You can do that in a second term. Perhaps it even comes in the letter for the AO on sustainability that we are going to keep. By then, I'd like to know what we're up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u104	I think that's fair. We are finalising an agreement with local authorities in this area. We have a common ambition. The agreement is likely to come to you before the AO. I'm just gonna see if one of my officials isn't gonna look very hard right now. If I say something that doesn't make sense, I'll come back to that in second term. As far as I'm concerned, we'll come to you with that board agreement on sustainable procurement. That will therefore be part of the question of how we ensure that everyone shows that we respect the ambition we express together. There is now a violent yes nodding, so I do not have to come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u105	In any case, I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment that we will receive it for the AA so that we can involve it in this. Another point that I thought might be part of this block was asbestos remodelling. I was curious whether the Secretary of State will now respond or whether she will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u106	No, but I have responded extensively to this in the written questions, as well as to questions on the agricultural sector, for example. We are also working on a joint approach here. You will receive an action plan in December. It will show what the contribution we are making to each other now means and how it relates to the ambitious objective we agreed on in this Chamber. A limited amount of subsidy is available, a total of 70 million. Now the first tranche of 10 has already been increased by 5, because it proved very successful. Even if you double or triple that, that's out of proportion to the task. The solution must be found through smart policies, through a combination of, for example, energy measures, building sustainability and roof refurbishing. That is exactly the subject of the action plan. I also sit down with Mr Prevoo from Limburg and the directors from Overijssel, for example, to see how we can do that smartly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u107	Then we will receive it from the Secretary of State in December. I hope that we can discuss it with her afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u108	Sure. That's what I'm assuming. There has been hard work, I can tell you, also by all local actors. I'm really happy about that. That's good work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u109	In England today there are interesting judgments from the judge, a natural one about the Brexit, but also one about diesel and air pollution. About the latter, the judge said that models that weren't right were counted. The government has been unsuccessful and has to do much more. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. Can it respond to the reasoning set out in the article and does it think that it does not apply in the Netherlands? I will, of course, be happy to give the article to her to answer in the second term. My second point is that the Secretary of State says that she wants to extend the action plan, but only based on EU standards, while she has said earlier that we need to look further. The Secretary of State doesn't want to lay it down in legislation, but we're not asking the Health Council to set targets for nothing. Where are these targets, where do we anchor them, if the Secretary of State does not want to do so in legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u110	Those are two very different themes. As far as the first is concerned, I do not know whether it is wise to comment on it now, as there is a trial going on at this point. So everything I'm going to speculate about that is not in the interests of the Dutch state. By the way, I assume that RIVM has very good state of the art models, which we also often validate, also internationally. I really want to leave it at that. I think that's the wise thing to do. As far as the second point is concerned, it's something else. The Health Council is indeed coming up with an opinion on air quality and what new steps we could take in the Dutch situation. If you ask us to do more in an action plan now, there are a few points next to Amsterdam and Rotterdam where we might be able to do something. The first is, therefore, to wait and see, in conjunction with the Air Quality Directive, what the future step will be. I have indeed set targets, because the European standard is the legal standard. But that doesn't mean you can't do it anymore. Of course you can, but you have to weigh it. How do you do that and what advice does this involve? Where is the best place to do what? I would also like to include the advice of the Health Council. That's actually how I see it in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u111	As far as the trial is concerned, the Secretary of State is, of course, quite right. I will drop that point. When it's under the judge, politics should be quiet for a while. We'll see when we get there. As far as the targets are concerned, I am pleased that the Secretary of State is now clearly saying: we are indeed moving forward; we are not laying it down in legislation, but it is the aim to do so, and we are taking those opinions with us in setting those targets. We will certainly be able to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u112	The Court receives a plan based on the NEC Directive, based on the opinion of the Health Council and on a number of points that may remain. As soon as the Health Council's advice arrives, we can respond to that. I can't do that right now, because I'm still waiting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u113	When will that be about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u114	That advice will come next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u115	That's a pretty long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u116	Yeah, and I don't know if that's spring or summer. I can't say that out of my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u117	Maybe you'll know in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u118	I can tell you that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u119	In the written reply, the State Secretary referred to a letter dated 11 July 2016 on a green deal and the phasing out of two-stroke mopeds. I am very glad that this green deal is going to come and that we are talking to manufacturers, importers and sellers. However, I have also read that there will be a European regulation on the basis of which the two-stroke mopeds can no longer be placed on the market. What is the green deal going to do if Europe is already giving us such a huge move in the right direction? Are we also going to watch that dot on the horizon with each other to finally let mopeds and scooter all electric drive? Does this green deal also address the issue of residual stocks sufficiently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u120	It is precisely this coherence that is at stake. We are going to a situation where more and more electric cars are being driven, but we also have the issue of the remaining stock. I believe that an amendment has also been tabled on this point. I'm not in favour of that, but it'll come later. In a green deal, of course, we want to take those subjects all to the head.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u121	I would like to hear from the Secretary of State when she can give us further information. I have a second question and it is about textile recycling. I have also read that there will be no new green deal, but that there will be an international covenant, corporate social responsibility. Then what happens to the existing green deal, which actually doesn't work? I have seen that the situation has so far been very focused on collecting textiles, but that there is actually no market for actual reuse and actual recycling. Will these points also be addressed in that international covenant? So, in addition to the production and collection side, is there any consideration for starting the recycling process after collection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u122	Indeed, in the written reply, I indicated that we started a process with textiles. This is one of the themes in the approach to the circular economy with which we want to move forward. I can imagine that it would be a good idea to answer this type of question when we are a step further, at a next progress letter on the circular economy and its approach. So that is in December, when the agreement on raw materials comes to the Chamber, or in spring. I do not have an accurate picture of how far we are now with the agreements. We do not have an exact green deal in mind, as can be seen in the written answer, but we do have a similar trajectory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mrs. Dik-Faber, very briefly. The Secretary of State then continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u124	It's fine that the Secretary of State will return to the Chamber on that. The point is that after the collection something really needs to happen and that there is a financial picture attached to it. Someone's gonna have to pay for that. I do not know whether a recycling contribution from manufacturers and importers is the solution, but it has to come from somewhere. I'd like to inform the Secretary of State that this is the biggest bottleneck that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u125	I understand that, but that's probably why it's hard to solve. Putting an account there somewhere in advance is also complicated. Let's get back to it. I know that Mrs Dik-Faber has asked for this with great attention at many moments, on many days of Princess. We're working on it, too, but we didn't set it up tomorrow. This is persistent material, which we really need to deal with, but with that not every responsibility is always with us. That's what's complicated about this. Mr President, with your permission, I am going to the public transport and rail block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u126	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u127	Of course, a lot has already happened. A number of members recalled the renewed stations Den Haag, Breda and Arnhem. The latter I was allowed to open myself and Utrecht Centraal follows quickly. I'll just say a few words about bike parking. We have a major project, OV SAAL, for which I once acted as rapporteur for the Chamber. Parts of the High Frequency Track Programme have also started. In 2017, we're going to see that. A number of members have spoken briefly and more in statements than really in questions about ProRail. There is a whole round of questions coming up, of course I am not looking at anyone in particular through a swirling debate. I therefore propose that we do not spend much time on this in this contribution. Mr Smaling has provoked me to give a philosophical consideration and to go back twenty years in time to find out what the cutting-up of NS and ProRail has or hasn't caused. He asked if that made any mistakes. I think it would be wise to send a response to the Chamber in conjunction with that whole dossier. I am, of course, waiting for all the written questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u128	Mr Van Helvert, the Secretary of State had just begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u129	I have a question on this particular point. As far as I am concerned, we can indeed conclude this subject before this debate, because we are not finished with it. I hope, however, that the cabinet will not make the point that we should have said something about this in the budget. This is an opportunity that we are ignoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u130	You are absolutely right, but you know me. In that I am fair; I am not of the tricks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u131	That's absolutely true. In the meantime, I understand from Mrs Van Tongeren that you have to call that different. That's what I learned. Mrs Van Tongeren said something along the lines of: with her charm, the Secretary of State sometimes treats the Chamber charmingly. Those are indeed beautiful words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u132	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u133	That's entrapment. I replied to Mr Van Helvert. Since he's making a conversation public, I can of course do the same for my part. I explained to him that the use of charm is a virtue and that using a trick is unacceptable. And that's a difference. Mrs Van Tongeren agrees, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u134	Of course, we can also release the proverb "as the worth is, he trusts his guests."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u135	We come to a subject with which I am actually a bit done, namely the taxis drivers at Schiphol Airport. Mr Hoogland and Mr Smaling have drawn attention to this. Mr Smaling has already done so by means of written questions. We're just seeing recruitment. I don't think that's acceptable. I also think that the Chamber has heard this from me before; we are also working hard behind the scenes to ensure that these problems really need to be resolved quickly. It is bad for the reputation of our country when you arrive at Schiphol as a non-suspecting tourist and then by people with yellow hoes, who do not appear to be as official as they seem, gets picked up in a taxi and then sometimes has to tick off amounts that make you completely cold. The municipality of Haarlemmermeer, Schiphol and my department have joined forces. We have offered legal expertise from our department to the mayor of Haarlemmermeer to solve the public order issue in particular. Why do I call it that? Because ultimately the problem is mainly a public order problem. According to the law, the provision of taxis in itself is of course free, but the recruitment really brings with it a public order problem. The mayor, the police and the state's attorney's office are on top of it now. We are working on some of the solutions that we see, for example to adapt the APV together with Haarlemmermeer, to test them legally and to see if these solutions are feasible. I expect results from this in the very short term. The passenger transport law is not in itself appropriate nor is it intended to deal quickly with public order problems, but gives the municipality of Haarlemmermeer the space to do so I must agree with Mr Hoogland in order, for example, to set additional quality requirements. He himself mentioned the example of allowed taxi organizations. For example, the Passenger Transport Act can also deal with too high rates. I had discussions yesterday afternoon with the inspector-general of the ILT. The ILT will also monitor more intensively. Every time we see that footage, recently someone would have put something like this on a vlog again, we all actually feel that we should take back the streets from the joint governments for the citizens and not leave them to the bastards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u136	I think those last words from the Secretary of State will be shared by everyone. I will keep my question to the Secretary of State, as you wish, Mr President. Firstly, can these problems not also be solved by the market? Secondly, can the Secretary of State respond to the fact that Uber is now also reporting there, and there is therefore an additional party to that effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u137	Those are two different things. In itself, it is legitimate to offer a good quality service, but that is not the problem. The problem is that unsuspecting people are recruited and put into situations, for example at the checkout, where they do not want to end up. That part, the way it goes, is purely a matter of public order. In the end, this can only be solved if all the parties involved join forces and consider what they can do from their responsibilities. We shouldn't have the mayor feeling alone and thinking, "Everyone's looking at me." Nor can I suggest that an amendment of the law has solved the problem, apart from the fact that it will take some time. I have always said: if that were necessary and possible, I would be prepared to do so. But we have not yet reached that conclusion when we look very closely at what is going on here. I have always said from my position: let us stop pointing at each other, because that is actually the most frustrating thing for citizens. They really don't care who solves it, as long as it gets solved. That's also a bit of the attitude I'm sitting at the table with. The same applies to all other stakeholders. It's quite elusive from time to time and it's not always working well either. That's what we've seen lately, but we have to do it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u138	The Ministry will offer its expertise to the municipality of Haarlemmermeer. That should have happened a long time ago! Get those guys out of here. It's getting week in, week out worse. There's just got to be something fast to settle, right? Don't you have the authority to appoint a local authority to change the case immediately? It's all gonna take me a long time to hear this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u139	No, the last one isn't. It's not all gonna take very long. And the first is wrong, because that would suggest that mayor and aldermen are also unwilling to help act independently. They're just looking. The APV has been changed before. That turned out to be a legally unsuccessful route. I also understand that people do not want to see the same thing for a second time. That is why we want to help for our part, including with, for example, legal expertise, to explore exactly that route with each other with which we can successfully change the APV. In addition, the KMar and the ILT can play a role. So, from the point of view of enforcement, we are also doing things with each other. So my message is that it's only soluble if we do it together and not like this. This also wrongs the efforts in Haarlemmermeer itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u140	My written questions are from six months ago or so. The ILT that is going to maintain better... I find it difficult to still believe that. Things just have to happen now. One of our leading war reporters arrives at Schiphol Airport and scares the hell out of him. I mean, how fast is fast? Something just needs to happen there really fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u141	We don't have to make a game out of who's most indignant about this. I've already made some pretty far-reaching statements for my own language. That's the way I really am. I told you, I'm done with this subject. I also have this attitude in the Chamber, and that is precisely the attitude that the drivers sit at the table, together with the services, in order to provide a solution to this. We really need to do that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u142	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u143	Mrs Visser has asked if I am prepared to discuss safety in public transport with all the providers and to offer solutions where the financial need is highest. We had a general discussion report last night and there was intensive discussion on this issue. Motions have also been tabled and are subject to a judgment. I am very pleased that the Minister of V and J and the undersigned have recently drawn up an important action plan, together with all transport operators, including the regional transport operators, the unions and the police, with a view to tackling the violence in public transport. The local authorities are also involved, because they too have a responsibility in this and they want to take it up. So we're really getting along at this point. I'm here to park my bike. The Minister has just praised the bike and I can only endorse it. There is, of course, a lot going on in that area. The bike is indispensable for the "door to door" journey and a good storage is important. We are really spending a lot of money on the High-frequency Rail Transport Programme. We will increasingly see that this will save time for travellers. Of course, it's too crazy for words that if you book three, four or five minutes of travel time on a journey, then you're at Amsterdam Amstel station.I'll just mention what more than half an hour you're looking for a parking space for your bike. That's a little bit of riding the cart. I am glad that we have managed to use EUR 40 million from our side. It's matched by local authorities. The plans will only continue if they are provided with a good and closing business case. The question is how many places exactly will be added, but that is very difficult to say. This really depends on different factors, such as management and maintenance. A rough estimate is that we can create 25,000 places with the sum of wealth, but that number can of course increase, because scaling allows you to do more. This means that, at least until 2020, we will be able to resolve the deficit that we have seen in part. But we're not there yet. It is up to the next cabinet to assess whether there are any further possibilities in this respect, but for the moment, within the current superscissors' resources, I have considered this investment to be justified and necessary, also on the basis of a motion by Mr Hoogland and Mrs De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u144	Hail for that. But I do have a follow-up question. If municipalities want to participate and go for it, because they need such a storage facility, can they call the ministry from tomorrow to join? Or does that work differently? Can the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u145	That works differently, because our problem is that we have no lack of plans at the moment either. We have more plans than money. That is the reality. That means that in any case you only qualify if your story is urgent, if you're running it around, which means that besides NS and ProRail, you've also found third parties who want to help out and if you can show that you're going to start construction by 2020. So if you're still thinking about wanting something, I don't think you're going on this round. Mrs Van Tongeren asked for 3kV and if we could create a bit of tension on the line. I'm always in favour of tension, and this is an interesting investment. My ministry's been watching this with NS and ProRail for a while. It's in college. 3kV has undoubtedly all kinds of advantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u146	Perhaps you could explain for a moment what 3kV is? Kilovolt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u147	That's the voltage on the track and if it goes up, more trains can ride it and they consume less energy. That makes everyone very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u148	It is useful that the people in the public gallery know that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u149	That's right. Absolutely! If it were that simple, we would have done it by now. But unfortunately it's not that simple. We have had a social cost-benefit analysis carried out and it shows on a number of points that we are not yet there. ProRail says the investment has been recouped in ten years, but we're not sure yet. The research we have done shows that there is coherence with other major projects. Think of the High-frequency Rail Transport and ERTMS Programme, the railway security system. We need to know whether it will benefit us if we take these projects together or if it bites each other properly. Those are things in the implementation that we need to look at even further. What, for example, is the driving time gain you think you're booking? Is there overlap between the programmes or are they mutually reinforcing? What about all these big projects next to each other? The Chamber knows I'm very sensitive to that. Otherwise I will have all kinds of trouble here because there is work everywhere and connections are out. The question will be: could you not have foreseen it beforehand? I can feel it coming a little bit. I want answers to these types of questions first. I would also add that the ten-year payback period is based on an amount of 700 million excluding VAT and excluding premiums. My department assumes that with such an investment, we'll go at least a billion dollars. This subject does not lend itself to something that needs to be decided very quickly. Then we're really gonna have accidents. We have to take it seriously, and so do I. I see all the advantages, but if we do it, we must have the money for it. I do not yet have that, and I should really be able to do it and not lead to hassle and unrest on the trail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u150	I fully agree with all the Secretary of State's conditions. Is there anything to help the Chamber get an insight into how far we are, for example a mid-term report? What could be a next step? In the conversations I have had, it was said that very little work is needed on the track which prevents the train from driving. I can't see if that's true. We have a great work programme of all kinds of things to do on the railways. Maybe that'll do it. It may be promising, but maybe it isn't. What's the next step?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u151	It'll come in the spring. I really want to see that assumption tested, because I'm not sure if it is. The social cost-benefit analysis also shows that these are exactly the type of issues that are related to all the work and other major projects, and whether we are sure that this is the amount or that it will be much more. The room knows them all. I would very much like to prevent déjà vu's from doing so. Let's learn our lessons from the past. That's what all the spokesmen were asking about. This is such a lesson.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u152	I welcome the commitment that the opportunities will come to the Chamber as the next step in spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u153	As the Secretary of State explained very clearly, it is ultimately about allowing more trains to travel more safely on the rail. We have two major programmes for this: PHS, the High Frequency Rail Transport Programme, and a major European project, ERTMS, of which I do not know the total abbreviation. GroenLinks is now making a proposal. Is it possible to include some sort of noregret strategy on these three issues in the coming spring? They all have the same goal but a slightly different obligation. Can they be put next to each other? And can we then look at what a noregret strategy is, not everything separately but together? Couldn't they be glued together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u154	That's exactly the point, because that's what it's about. This has not yet been perfected within the current social cost-benefit analysis. This is exactly what you have to do, because for the same thing it bites each other in the tail. I can also say this: on the two major projects mentioned by Mrs Visser, we have had a lot of exciting debates together, and that will not have been the last. It's not unwillingness. It's really careful. If there's any chance, we'll grab them. But I'm not going to go on slippery ice, because the Chamber won't let me. And neither do I, by the way. Mr. Chairman. I come to the last block, namely aviation. I've already talked about Montreal. A number of questions have been asked about this, which I have already discussed during Mr Dijkstra's interruption on the issue of coherence with the ETS. Mrs Visser and Mr Smaling asked about the growth and competitiveness of Schiphol. As is well known, work is under way to establish the new regulatory framework for standards and enforcement. On the basis of Mrs Visser's motion, it was agreed with the Chamber that the Schiphol Environment Council should give further advice. But that is an opinion; the political decision. I very much agree with that. It concerns, among other things, the future stability of the new system. The opinion is currently under discussion. The next step will be the Airport Traffic Decision Schiphol. To do this, we have recently had to deal with the fact that we are making noise calculations on the basis of the EIA obligations. It has emerged from the EIA that we will also have to use the state-of-the-art calculations that are possible. This is also important for the overall picture around the airport. It is expected to be completed in February 2017. We have asked the ORS to come forward with a proposal on a number of points not later than 1 December; the Chamber has received letters on this matter this week. I will come to the Chamber with a letter about this, which I expect to send before Christmas, or perhaps just after. That depends on what ends up in my mailbox before 1 December. As Mrs Visser herself says, it is always political. So I also want to take the space to weigh what may or may not come forward. If nothing comes, we also have a problem, because then I'm going to make my own decision. Then about the numbers. Up to 500,000 flight movements per year can take place at Schiphol Airport until 2020. As the Chamber knows, Schiphol can then grow with a 50/50 regime within the criteria of equivalence for the protection of the environment. Therefore, limited growth is still possible until 2020. I recently sent a letter to the Chamber about that. In that I indicated that Schiphol told me to move towards 2020 at a slightly slower pace, also because it is seen that there is a need for space to put the handling and the capacity that this requires properly in order. I think that's important. You want to grow, but you want to do it in such a way that your customers stay satisfied. That tension is now a bit in the file. It all has to be done right. Of course, we're working on additional capacity. For Eindhoven, we've already arranged this. We're working with Lelystad. We also take into account the fact that there are larger planes and there are higher occupancy rates. We are also working on the traffic distribution system. A new temporary pier will be delivered in 2019. A new terminal will be delivered in 2023. There has been talk of the holding company, KLM and Paris. Mr Van Helvert has asked a question about this. This morning, the Trust Together plan was brought out. I understand that next week, so very soon, a debate with the Chamber is scheduled. I've reported a few things before. Of course, the Chamber receives a written appreciation from the Minister of Finance and the undersigned of the plan that has been put out. We will send that appreciation to the Chamber well before the start of the debate. I think it is right to say that the cabinet's starting point is to keep the guarantee of KLM's public interests sharp. It is about the quality of the network from Schiphol. That's what's at the heart of us. For us, this also means maintaining a sufficiently independent position for KLM and not transferring jobs to France. We see that Air France and KLM both need to work towards an increase in productivity and a reduction in costs. That's central to the plan I've seen in the quickness. In itself, that's good news. The objectives of Performance 2020, the plan to do better and to improve competitiveness, stand up. The objective is to reduce the costs of the whole group, especially Air France. We welcome that. As with KLM, costs should be reduced over the full width of the holding and productivity increased. The project can thus be a good step towards making the company more competitive. As has already been said, we are keeping a close eye on Dutch interests from our point of view. We see that Schiphol next to Paris is the hub on which the company continues to focus and that the adapted strategy does not restrict KLM's further growth. Transavia and KLM will strengthen each other further. That's a good thing. Again, this is a very first reaction. We will have to take the exact plans even further. While we are here, a press conference is being held in Paris by Mr Janaillac and our own Pieter Elbers. I hope that the Chamber will understand that it is wise to inform her of the proposals by letter. The Chamber knows what we're looking for. That's what she's doing. We pay attention to maintaining jobs, maintaining the quality of the network and a sufficiently independent position of KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u155	The fact that this news is currently being published in France is one of the reasons why I have seen a number of spokesmen dive into their phones every now and then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u156	It's nice that the Secretary of State wants to say something else about it. In view of the huge need of the Chamber to question her on several occasions about developments, I ask her if she can indicate what she thinks after the second term and after the press conference. Otherwise we will be standing here next week with an oral question. This might be a good opportunity for the Secretary of State to say something, as far as she can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u157	I would like to do that in my own right, but I think we will have a plenary debate here next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u158	Well, maybe not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u159	If I can prevent that, I'll do my best. I couldn't look in my phone, so I didn't get to see the latest news. This was just a first reaction. I'll see what I can do. Mr Smaling wanted butter for the fish on the point of tackling taxi recruiters at Schiphol Airport. I can report that I could not just now, because it was not yet announced at that time that there is a sweeping action going on at Schiphol Airport to tackle those recruiters. I understand the KMar is working on that. Mr Smaling wanted it quickly, but we had already prepared it. Mr President, that is my contribution to the first term. I think you would prefer to appreciate the amendments at the end of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u160	You're looking at me, but I'm looking at the room. If you can do it now, it might be useful. I see that you can, but first we will go to Mr Hoogland of the Labour Party for the sweeping questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u161	The sweeping questions, here we go. My question about the developments in the broad target benefit, the money available for public transport in the cities, has been answered in writing. The Secretary of State has given an answer that is not entirely clear to me, so I am asking a follow-up question. The answer refers to studies taking place on developments in the broad target benefit but also on the future of public transport. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take into account the costs of public transport in that future image and in those investigations? Then we can get a visual on it. I understand that all the resources needed for this are not equally available, but I want to have a financial picture of what developments have taken place in the BDU. How do these money flows run in the big cities? I would like to include that in those studies so that we can assess whether there has been more revenue in the major cities. How does that develop?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u162	We can provide you with an overview of how things have been in recent years. I do not know whether the picture of the future has a level of precision that we know exactly which euro we need for this. You need to see that vision of the future a little more in abstraction. Choices are really being made; the modalities are being crossed. We are going to look much more at what a traveler wants instead of just doing the offer: public transport, taxi or car. That's what that vision of the future is about. It will not have a financial paragraph. That's really something a next cabinet needs to look at. We lay down an image of what could be. That is always about a lot of money, you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u163	I think I need to make it more explicit. For the big cities we had the development with an expectation from 2005. That was a very nice little statistics in which all the money went up, all the financial resources increased. Reality was also projected. We all know that this development has changed, and we are responsible for it ourselves. Can you also picture the costs to be expected for the future, knowing that an additional railway line is being built at Amstelveen, knowing that the North/South line must be operated, knowing that a Hoekse Lijn is being added to Rotterdam? It would be good to look at all these things, as we in the Infrastructure Fund do with management and maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u164	I'm afraid to tell you that right now. I do not think that with that vision of the future, we are already presenting choices at that level of abstraction. I do not think it is fair to suggest that there will be some kind of pan-ready plan for a next cabinet, which can say yes or no. That's not the way the plan's gonna look. I can get a picture of what's going on, as you asked. You can always show an estimate of the cost of certain investments for individual projects, but that is just different from what you are asking for. That would actually be a new coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u165	I am certainly not asking for a whole government agreement, because it would be a bit sad if it was just about public transport. But if the cost is going to cross with the available resources, you better get an early picture, so you can make choices. That's better than finding that you've financed structural costs with occasional resources, that you've seen an increase coming, but you've let it happen. I'd like to get a visual on that. I realize it's really not solved yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u166	Let me say in a little more general terms that I'm going to see what I can do. What do you have to look after anyway? What is the problem of management and maintenance? We just know that. What do the regions have to do with it? What are they still running into? Maybe we can say something about that, but I don't make promises up to the millions or even billions. You may have to say something about that in a general sense, but in the end choices have to be made. We don't make them that way in this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u167	May I help Mr Hoogland a little? Perhaps a slightly modified, slightly academic version of the transfer file could help at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u168	No. Moreover, transfer files are for directors and not for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u169	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u170	Yes. I would like to say a few things about the amendments. I have an amendment by Mrs van Veldhoven to replace the amendment on item No. 13. It's no. 15 years old. That amendment is about extra conductors on night shifts. I fully agree with the objective. I did not release EUR 10 million for this for nothing, but that was also assuming that this was a step up for NS to act quickly, because it just took a little while. But that's really something other than taking over responsibility. I have said from the outset that we would not be doing this structuralally. We now have the action plan and are doing well. Apart from all the good considerations you can have: this is covered by Article 13, Railways. Those are the resources I need to carry out completely different programmes. So Mrs Van Veldhoven is not helping me with this, because then I have to cut other programmes. Actually, I don't want to. I therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u171	For my part, therefore, we are talking about the amendment to item No. 15, formerly No. 13?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u172	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u173	This is not in the budget states of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment, but in the infrastructure fund. We have several piles of amendments here. One stack deals with the Infrastructure Fund and the other with the Ministry's budget. In the Ministry's budget, there are also amendments to item No. 13 and 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u174	Can I help you? 34550-A is the fund, 34550-XII is the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u175	That's right. I also said it for the people who follow it and have the other pile in front of them; otherwise they will have the wrong amendment in front of them. The Secretary of State actually has two points: she does not think it is necessary to do this structuralally and she has a problem with the coverage. I think it's structuralally necessary. By the way, I share with the Secretary of State that the NS should integrate this into its own budget, but we are asking for a considerable additional effort from the NS. That is why I would like to give the NS a little more time than the Secretary of State has in mind to incorporate this into the budget in a structural way. I note that the Secretary of State has a slight non-verbal point to make that I have a point. That leaves the point of coverage. I would, of course, like to consider with the Secretary of State whether there are any folds in the margins of the budget that we can get it out of, so that she also sees that as less objectionable. That is what I would like to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u176	Yes, because 'non-verbal' is very complicated in relation to the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u177	It is, but we were talking about charm and stuff. Sometimes you gotta take what you can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u178	Before you know it, there's a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u179	No, I'm not admitting anything yet. I expressed non-verbal understanding, because I know the argument, but I do not agree with it. I really think this is the core business for NS itself. I helped them get through this first year. Speaking of budget integration, I have had to wring out my own budget, which is also not so large, but I am not going to stay busy. NS is not a poor company. It is not just a question of deficits; it is also a question of choices. A promise had already been made about this double manning, without any form of state contribution. Then there was a fuss with the unions about the energetic nature of the implementation of that already existing promise. I jumped in at the time. The reasoning is: you did that once; you could do that a few more times. Then I say to Mr Van Boxtel: no, that's not how I got married; now you have to do it yourself. I really do. The subject is sympathetic and that is why I nod. I also understand that you can weigh that differently, but this has been my attitude. It was clear from the beginning. I believe that this should now be taken into account in our own budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u180	The Secretary of State and I do not disagree that this should be done in the long term, but we also set priorities within this budget in the Chamber. D66 considers it crucial that the people who are on the train every day can work there safely. I believe that we must ensure at all times that this reinforcement can grow into the budget. If something else is needed once in a while to achieve that path of growth, then I think that the Chamber can make this a priority. We can differ on that, but that is why I tabled the amendment and maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u181	I understand. I also believe that travellers are entitled to this. I also believe that the staff of NS are entitled to keep the promise. I think NS should just do that. Secondly, I come to the amendment to item No. 16 replacing No 16 14 by Mrs Van Veldhoven on the O/V bicycle. It is an extremely sympathetic subject. It also wants to cover 5 million for the O/V bike from Article 13, Railways. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. This is an example of innovation developed and further developed by the market itself. Use has increased from 600,000 to 1.5 million journeys over the last five years. By now you can rent two bikes with a subscription. I'm not a social-liberal, but these are the innovations you just have to leave to the market. Isn't that right, Mrs. Van Veldhoven? The amendment has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u182	I'm so social that I'd even like to give all those people in line for an O-Bike, which is a shortage, such a beautiful bike. There aren't enough bikes. I like to take my kids by train. But then they can't ride an O.V. bike, because they're not so big that their legs can reach the pedals. I am so social that I also like to give children a bicycle or that they can safely sit on the back. None of that has been settled yet. I would do that on the basis of matching, because, of course, NS must also take its own responsibility. In this way we could contribute to that door-to-door journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u183	Again, it is a market concept and there is huge growth in it. If we really want to be social, let us put the scarce money in those people who need it most.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u184	It doesn't make much sense to go through with this every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u185	No, but I appreciate the push from D66 to the left, just from my own private hobby. It's really refreshing to see that after all these years. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u186	Can we move on to the next amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u187	Perhaps the Secretary of State should attend some other debates. Well, apparently, she'd be surprised in the last few years, given her perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u188	I'm looking at the clock. Let's try to keep it short and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u189	Then I'll leave it at that. However, we are constantly talking about a journey from door to door. We have a national responsibility for that, too. In Better Benutten we also do all kinds of business. Let us make the best possible use of the infrastructure we have. Here's something. There's a big shortage, that's what everyone sees. Hence this amendment. Expand the OV bike and stop the queue, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u190	Does this fierce appeal lead to a changed opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u191	No, because I think the sector can handle that very well itself. Let them do it. There is another amendment tabled by Mr Smaling, in respect of item No. 12, on improving air quality in cities. He wants to improve air quality in cities by providing compensation for the exchange of diesel vans for a cleaner specimen and to demolish the most polluting two-stroke mopeds and mopeds. Of course, we've already focused on zero-emission city logistics. We made a deal about that. There is a lot of enthusiasm among parties to make that a success. I do not think that we should encourage diesel vehicles. To be honest, it seems very unwise to do so. The contribution of mopeds and moustaches to air pollution is low in itself, but there is a huge annoyance about some of the users. In the TNO report received by the Chamber last March, we see that buying up two-stroke mopeds and moustache bikes in itself makes a very limited contribution to improving air quality. Thus, in my view, a scrapping or exchange scheme is not cost-effective. That is why I would advise against this amendment, regardless of the fact that mopeds must and can become cleaner. The standards are being tightened up. We have already discussed this in the debate. We are in the process of setting stricter requirements for all new mopeds from 2018. We've already had the rest of the stock discussion. We are going to table with the seven major cities shortly to see what additional measures are cost-effective on this dossier. Moreover, the coverage of this amendment is not feasible, as there is already an expenditure for the Amstelveen line. So Mr Smaling would also cause something he really shouldn't want. There are therefore many reasons why, unfortunately, this amendment should not be accepted. So I'm gonna dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u192	There are still a few amendments which the Minister could perhaps take on board by now. I see that's the case. I am happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u193	Mr. Chairman. These are two amendments that I have yet to respond to. The first is the amendment to item No. 10, at least in my file. That amendment belongs to Mr Bishop of the SGP. It is not quite clear, but I think the goal is to succeed the earlier IDVV pilot Covadem. I really can't explain all that. It has to do with the fact that skippers can implement measurement instruments on board that measure the depth of navigation for their own logistics efficiency and waterway maintenance. He wants to make an extra million for that. I would advise against this amendment. Through the program Impuls Dynamic Traffic Management Vaarwegen, IDVV, I have already supported the broad pilot to get the system proven in practice. As far as I am concerned, the next step is now up to the sector. We have financed it first and now it is up to the sector to embrace the opportunities. In particular, the skipper has a direct advantage, because it leads to more efficient sailing and the better loading of the ships. MARIN and Deltares have prepared a stakeholder consultation for January, in coordination with Rijkswaterstaat. This was the result of a discussion here in the Chamber in the AO Shipping, in which it was promised. On this basis, financial contributions from market participants will be discussed. If there are interested market players, I am willing to support and facilitate that from I and M. But I really think that the first financial step should be taken by the market. I therefore reject the amendment. Then there is the second amendment I would like to address. That's actually two. The amendments to Parts Nos. 17 and 18 replace the amendments to Parts Nos. 11 and 12, which had been filed before. These require the hiring of additional staff for the ILT and, where necessary, to invest in the development of the current workforce. The cover for this comes from the Infrastructure Fund. The amendments are by Mr Smaling and Mrs Veldhoven. I do not recommend the amendments. I have undertaken to carry out an investigation into the tasks and budget of the ILT. In my letter of 8 March 2016, I also informed the Chamber about the necessary strategically oriented analysis. The ILT has started the transition, which will also determine the agenda for the coming time. That analysis is part of a wider program, Course ILT. After the investigation is completed, I will inform you about results and conclusions. So I am not prepared to take a decision in advance, in anticipation of that, to allocate additional budget. The second is that I am not in favour of the proposed coverage. The resources from the Infrastructure Fund are needed to carry out concrete projects and programmes and future commitments. Coverage from InfrafondsArticle 14 is not feasible due to the administrative obligation around the Amstelveenline. I think it was covered by the Secretary of State as well. So that is what we already have obligations to do. That was my response to both amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u194	It's really shabby kitchen manager if you want to amend budgets I and M and the Infrastructure Fund. The Amstelveen line is not in it at all, but now suddenly it is legally mandatory. In any case, I say that in the direction of the Secretary of State, a strange model. On the subject of ILT, I would like to say that it is actually very nice that the Minister is carrying out a motion that had not even been adopted. It was about the new plan for the inspection. But 35 million less to the inspection than in 2012, reaching 109 million or so, that's so substantial cutting into one of your most important services. That is why Mrs Van Veldhoven and I are really afraid that it will not be possible now if you compare the staff and the possibilities with the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u195	It is, of course, very good to hear that there is an interest in the functioning of the ILT and the question whether it can work out with the budget that stands for it. It's always good for the Chamber to talk to me about that. At the same time, I think that if you want to make extra money, you should also know exactly where the bottlenecks are, where you are short and where space is. Yeah, there's been cuts. In the first analysis we have done, it appears that in some respects you would actually want to put more manpower into it, also in the light of, for example, wishes that exist in the Chamber. There is still room for manoeuvre on other points, but you sometimes have to use a lot of FTEs, for example, because European legislation says that you always have to check so much percent of a particular sector or for other reasons. What is being looked at first is where there is overcapacity and where there is undercapacity and how you can change that between yourselves before you reach the final point, namely whether we can make it with what we are talking about. By then, because I think it is just as important as you, Mr President, we will make that clear and try to organise a solution ourselves within our own budget before we look around for a solution. Again, it's an important subject, but if you want to spend money on it, then you really need to know more precisely where to go, where to go, where to go and where to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u196	Finally, Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u197	We were just talking about Schiphol, and that's where the ILT is going to maintain more, but where are those people who are going to enforce more? I understand that the reduction is now largely offset by retirement. But then it's just the professionals that are going out. That's the case with Rijkswaterstaat. I just can't imagine that at a discount of such a large size, there's still an adequate staff to do all the things the inspection has to do. We are also on the microphone every week because we think that the ILT should be sent back to something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u198	What are you saying? To piss off? Important questions to ask!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u199	In my opinion, the Chamber can sometimes take a critical look at its own actions. Mr Smaling is right when he asks whether savings can still be made. If we were to cut back and it wouldn't matter, you could of course wonder what we were doing before that. That was also the reason for me to ask my own ILT to map that completely. I know, on the basis of the first activities and first insights, that people say that there is room on some points, but other points are tight. My first reaction is then: try to reconcile this and try to identify the priorities. It may well be that there are priorities that are the result of past questions from here or from the outside world, but which no longer have such a priority and that for other things that are asked for here or in the outside world, more effort should be made. A strategic analysis is now being made: how much do we need, how much do we need and what is needed to make a flexible bet to respond to specific questions. When that picture is finished, I think you can say: we have a deficit here and we have to do something about it, or we can go out with it, but then we have to move something between us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u200	We have now also had a debate on road safety. A large number of parties, including my party, would like to see the highway police strengthened. But now there's just a message on RTL that the highway police are completely disappearing. I understand that this is happening to the Minister, but perhaps she will be able to respond in her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u201	I'm not working on my second term yet. Would you like to comment on that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u202	Let us save that for the second term, then you can probably also provide a more substantiated answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u203	I hope so. I hope I can figure it out in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u204	I do not know whether it is possible and whether it is customary in this Chamber, but Mr Madlener is right, and I think it is good to have a debate on this. This will require additional work to be done, but I would like to have a debate on the decision that has just come out. I would not want us to have a ragged reaction to that in the second term. I would rather go into a well-founded debate about what exactly the decision is, what its consequences are...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u205	There is now a whole debate of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u206	I'd like to be able to do it in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u207	If you want a debate, the Minister has nothing to do with that procedure. If you want to have that debate today, you need to ask for an additional regulation of work. Otherwise, you will be able to request a debate next Tuesday at work. That is the way things are going if you want a debate. If you want a preliminary reply from the Minister, which I would advise, then perhaps the Minister can say something about it in the second term. Then you can decide what you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u208	Fine, but then it would be nice if the Minister sent a letter, because then we could act in a more orderly manner on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u209	We will first look at what happens in second term, and you can then initiate your procedural actions. My procedural actions are now to suspend for a few minutes and consult with the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u210	We need a reply from the side of the Chamber. By way of derogation from what is customary, I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren in relation to obligations elsewhere, in accordance with all the spokesmen who would otherwise have spoken for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u211	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas well-functioning traffic control systems contribute to the effective flow of traffic and reduce greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[Whereas, in the framework of Better Benutten, new systems, such as Talking Traffic, are being developed in the form of a pilot project, but such successes are not yet being scaled up nationwide;]] [[calls on the Government, together with other road managers, to promote the effective flow of traffic, such as (three-yearly) checking and maintenance of traffic control systems, the more frequent setting up of "green waves" and encouraging the scaling-up of modern techniques, such as Talking Traffic, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren, Visser and Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u212	Fine, yeah. And from Talking Traffic I don't know what that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u213	That's a personal name; you can do that. Then the text in the motion has been amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u214	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Coast Pact aims to strike a balance between protecting the natural nature of the Dutch coast and the initiatives of local authorities and project developers;]] [[Whereas at present holiday homes and parks on the coast are obsolete and empty;]] [[calls on the Government to agree in the Coastal Pact that existing buildings should be renovated or disposed of wherever possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas local authorities such as municipalities and provinces play an important role in achieving climate objectives;]] [[whereas some municipalities are already drawing up their own climate plans;]] [[calls on the Government, in close consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the Interprovincial Consultation, to examine how to further strengthen the direction of municipalities and provinces on climate and energy-related issues within their domain and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-21]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u215	Mr. Chairman. It was Tuesday evening and today again a rich and varied menu about infrastructure and environment. As far as I am concerned, it was satisfactory in terms of subjects that we have reviewed. Of course, a lot of things are not satisfactory for a member of the opposition, but I think there is a lot of work going on in all areas. I have a number of motions. The first one is about the cab drivers. I'll hear from the Secretary of State in her answer or she thinks she's already promised this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the situation with recruiters and shady taxi drivers at Schiphol Airport is still not under control;]] [[Whereas these taxi transport problems damage Schiphol's reputation;]] [[believes that this is unacceptable and should be improved quickly by banning recruiters and shady taxi drivers at Schiphol Airport;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently amend the General Local Regulation (APV) by the Municipality of Haarlemmermeer and to implement other effective measures in the event of a short-term lack of results, and to inform the Court of Justice of this later this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smaling, Mr Visser and Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u216	We have not been talking about asbestos for very long, but in the Chamber's term we have come to the conclusion that we are concerned about the pace in relation to the resources needed to get rid of the whole problem. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that different provincial and national asbestos restructuring schemes exist co-exist;]] [[Whereas this makes it difficult in practice to adopt an integrated approach;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the mess of asbestos remodelling schemes and to examine the possibilities of including them in a single overall asbestos remodelling scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smaling and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u217	I know that the Secretary of State is already very active on this dossier, that a management team has been set up and that there is an ambassador, who I know well, but she probably sees, like me and colleagues, that we are not going to make it if we keep up with the current pace. Then perhaps you should look at another approach, which will bring the momentum into it. I have one more motion, which I try to move the Minister to do something to pay for use in the car before she says goodbye. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is social support for converting the cost of car mobility from taxing property to taxation of use;]] [[Whereas payment per kilometre instead of vehicle tax (mrb) is fairer because the MRB is based on 16,000 kilometres per year, while the average private motorist only drives 12,000;]] [[Whereas the abolition or reduction of the bpm will make the purchase of new cars cheaper, which will speed up the greening of the fleet;]] [[Whereas payment for use raises awareness of mobility choice, reducing emissions and improving accessibility;]] [[considers that the introduction of payments to use should not lead to privacy problems, extremely high entry costs and disproportionate disadvantage for people in the rural area;]] [[calls on the Government to examine various options for the transfer of payment for possession to payment for use, thereby reflecting the advantages and disadvantages of the different systems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u218	"Pay to use" sounds reasonable in itself. But we already know "pay according to use," namely through fuel taxes. If you drive a lot, you fill up a lot and pay a lot. Does the research include why Mr Smaling is also asking for the abolition of road taxes and the use of petrol and fuel taxes for these taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u219	You have asked Mr Smaling a few times on Tuesday evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u220	The motion is made in general terms. She's a little tall, okay? But the operative part is, check it out. This includes everything: what you do with the car tax, what you do with the bpm. You can reduce the tax on motor vehicles, but then the excise duty may have to be raised again in order to keep the housekeeping book in order. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the options put forward by Mr Madlener must also be examined. Then we'll see what we come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u221	Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to the words of Secretary of State Dijksma concerning the death of Mr Talsma. I have also met Mr Talsma as a deputy of Noord-Holland in another position. I would like to express my condolences towards the PvdA. It is a very strange transition, but I shall now return to the budget. I would like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State and, above all, their officials, who, in my opinion, have worked hard over the last few days, nights and hours to answer all our questions. I would also like to thank both directors for the last budget in this composition. Mrs Van Veldhoven expressed all her appreciation. I think that was on behalf of all of us. In this respect, I would like to express my appreciation once again. I think we have had a nice debate with each other on how to ensure that the Netherlands remains accessible. Quite a few steps have been taken, but we can see that the traffic jams are increasing. So there is another step to be taken. We don't think so, that's how I concluded. For the VVD: no charging. We still believe that widening the roads is absolutely a solution to combat congestion, but we will have this debate with each other in the coming period, also in the direction of the elections. I have a number of motions. Just now the news came about the approach of the traffic hoods on the road. That's a big concern. The Minister said something about this, but I would also like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that traffic enforcement contributes to road safety and that police positions have decreased in recent years;]] [[Considering that the teams have moved from the Public Prosecutor's Office (OM) to the police on the condition that the police continue to make these FTEs available for traffic enforcement;]] [[noting that the basic teams can also contribute to road safety;]] [[having noted that the Office has identified new road safety priorities in the 2016-2018 guide;]] [[noting that the deployment of the base teams is determined by the local triangle and that road safety is not included in the integrated safety plans in all municipalities;]] [[Considering that physical enforcement makes an important contribution to the chances of catching up and thereby to the promotion of road safety;]] [[calls on the Government to promote greater attention to road safety and traffic enforcement in local authorities when requested by the local situation;]] [[calls on the Government also to provide, in the context of the increase in the packing opportunity, as soon as possible to the national spearheads of the Public Prosecutor with regard to traffic enforcement and to inform the Chamber about this by the end of 2016 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser and Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u222	I would also like to receive a response to the RTL message in the second term if I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u223	I have seen that the rulers have written along, so that will work in second term. You had another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u224	I still have a few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a safe road system contributes to road safety;]] [[noting that road safety standards have been agreed on for the national roads and provincial roads;]] [[noting that new CROW guidelines have been drawn up for the design of roads, but agreements have not yet been reached with the municipalities on their implementation for road safety;]] [[invites the government, together with the Interprovincial Consultation (IPO) and the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG), to explore ways in which agreements can be made on the provincial and municipal roads to set up the roads more secure, and to inform the Lower House of this in early 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser and Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u225	My next motion concerns the flow on the road network. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is essential for the traffic on the Dutch roads to link the main road network with the underlying road network;]] [[noting that the analysis of the ANWB bottlenecks shows that there are many bottlenecks on the underlying road network;]] [[noting that the money from the former broad target benefit is now channelled through the Province Fund and that no agreement has been reached in this context on the link between the main road network and the underlying road network;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that, in the development of the new MIRT system, the coherence and flow of the main and underlying road network are a permanent component and to include the bottlenecks analysis of the ANWB in the forthcoming MIRT administrative consultations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u226	Am I correct in saying that you have only one motion left?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u227	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u228	Then you don't have to race like that, because you still have time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u229	Then I won't race this time. My final motion concerns the application of red crosses. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in order to reduce congestion, it is important to make best use of the available capacity of the main road network;]] [[Whereas the crossing of lanes is necessary in order to be able to operate safely and handle incidents;]] [[noting that the "appearing" unnecessary crossing of lanes leads to social irritation and thus to unsafe behaviour;]] [[calls on the Government to limit the use of red crosses in the event of incidents and road works to those sections for which this is strictly necessary from the point of view of safety and to actively communicate to the road user on the application of red crosses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u230	I would once again like to thank both directors, including the undertaking that they will take into account the distortion in the fines, I would like to mention the Boordcomputer Taxi as an example in the investigation. Further debates will follow, in which we will discuss how to ensure that the mainports, such as Schiphol, the Rotterdam harbour, the greenports and Eindhoven, remain competitive. I'm looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u231	Mr. Chairman. I'll start filing a few motions. My first motion concerns the sustainability of ownership of housing corporations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a huge challenge to the sustainability of the built-up environment;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage housing corporations to make their housing stock more sustainable by removing barriers to energy performance fees and labelling steps,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u232	My next motion concerns the fair global pricing of aviation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas agreements have been made at global level to reduce CO emissions from aviation;]] [[considers that it is unique that agreements have been made on this scale in such a competitive sector;]] [[whereas European airlines, including our own KLM, must operate in a playing field that is not always the same;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent European airlines from being put at a disadvantage by separately pricing emissions at European level, on top of global agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u233	The next motion concerns support for green, cleantech start-ups and SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, through innovation and new products, small start-ups and medium-sized entrepreneurs can contribute to further sustainability;]] [[considers that the public authorities can facilitate them in doing so;]] [[calls on the government, small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups to support by removing barriers and informing the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Remco Dijkstra and Mr Cegerek. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u234	My final motion concerns the cheaper and faster cleaning of asbestos. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a legal ban on the use of asbestos roofs by 2024;]] [[Considering the need to speed up the reorganisation process;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a plan of action to clean up asbestos leading to a substantial reduction in costs and a better balance between the actual safety risks associated with asbestos and its clean-up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u235	I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the last and first budgets, respectively, and for achieving the goals. The same applies to all officials who have worked on this. The VVD opts for policies that work. I believe that we really have the best and most liberal environmental policy there is. Public authorities need to address resource problems by working on reducing emissions. We want to give innovation a wide range of opportunities, but we also want to guarantee that everyone can continue to live their lives and make their choices. In my contribution last Tuesday, I mentioned several examples of green entrepreneurship, which can benefit not only ourselves but also the world. We really have everything we need to keep our future in our own hands. So I am not going with the people who say there is nothing going on, with the climate deniers who are blind to change in the world. That's not good. But I am not going along with the line of, say, the climate crazies that only come with doom scenarios, talk us into a pit and ruin our entire life. I don't want to be acidic, I want to be optimistic. We need to look at feeling, but we also need to base ourselves on facts. Not with compulsion, but with free choice. Not to ban everything, but to try to achieve results with information. Not only look nationally, but also internationally. This contrasts with a number of parties in society, but also here in the Chamber, who are pursuing a creative ideal or who dare to call themselves liberal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u236	Mr. Chairman. We have had a lot of discussions, even in the first term, and we have talked about the situation as it is. I don't think we're getting all the way out of this. You can't cut 8 billion in unbridled and then pretend like nothing's going on and everything's going perfectly. But sometimes it seems that way. This debate will certainly come back in the forthcoming debates towards elections on radio, TV and in the Chamber. I have had to make a choice and I would like to table a motion on two subjects. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the compensation scheme for environmental zoning for vans aims to accommodate entrepreneurs in municipalities adjacent to a municipality with an environmental zone in the replacement of an older polluting van;]] [[Whereas the resources of this scheme are hardly used and therefore do not reach entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas municipalities have introduced different types of environmental zones;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the funds earmarked in the compensation scheme for vans reach the affected entrepreneurs in neighbouring municipalities as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the decrease in the number of road deaths and seriously injured road casualties has been converted to an upward trend;]] [[Whereas this means that the targets for the number of road deaths and injuries can hardly be met;]] [[Considering that maintaining the criminal use of smartphones is a low priority and that the number of police positions is decreasing and decreasing further;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a concrete action plan on achieving the objectives of reducing road deaths and injuries, paying explicit attention to the effects of using the smartphone in traffic,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Helvert, Mr Visser, Mr Smaling and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-34]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u237	I would like to thank both directors very much, especially the Minister, and that for the last time. The minister and I didn't always agree. That's not a bad thing either; we're not here to hand out pussy pictures to each other. Apart from that, the task of a ruler is very difficult and the Minister has done well all these years. I thank her for that. I also thank the Secretary of State, of course, but I suspect that we will see her again in this house in any role.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u238	Mr. Chairman. I'll start the mainport discussion. The minister looked a little glassy when I talked about the third mainport. In her letter, however, she wrote: "That is why the Minister of Economic Affairs recognised the digital infrastructure as the third mainport of the Netherlands." That is why it is important to hear clearly from the Minister here today that she also recognises the Brainport Eindhoven as a mainport. We have been promised by the Minister that she will send a letter on this subject for the general consultation on 7 December, together with colleagues. I'd like to look forward to that letter. The Secretary of State has just said that she has already answered the questions on asbestos, but I think that is still to be done. I'd still like to receive those answers. In addition, the State Secretary has made a commitment on sustainable procurement. We are further informed about the deal concluded with several municipalities and other governments. We also received a commitment on the raw materials agreement, which we will be hearing more about in December. Finally, I support a motion by Mrs Cegerek on circular economy and the position of the province of Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u239	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their answers and their reactions to our contributions. I would also like to point out that in the past period we have achieved quite nice things together. I have seen how the Minister has worked on complex legislation. The Environment Act is by the Lower House and the Upper Chamber. We're still working on it through the four AMvBs. We have modernised our environmental policy, focusing on health. The Secretary of State has worked very hard on the beautiful government-wide circular economy programme. We should really be proud of that. Thank you for your commitment to this. Two beautiful functions, two great functions that are also performed by two top women. That can also be said. I will now file my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thousands of people are still sick each year and are dying from the effects of air pollution;]] [[Whereas there are still important steps to be taken to put an end to air pollution problems;]] [[calls on the Government to use the Air Quality Action Plan wider than only in the cities of Rotterdam and Amsterdam, to work towards WHO advisory values and to put health at the heart of air quality policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the circular economy offers great opportunities to the regional economy;]] [[Whereas Smart Delta Resources is a progressive circular project;]] [[calls on the government to explore the possibilities of supporting the project Smart Delta Resources through the Rijkswide Circular Economy programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Cegerek, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Smaling, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Houwers, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-36]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Cegerek, Mr Albert de Vries and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u240	I had asked for attention in the first period of time for the fire and the fire alarm. In the written reply I see that the Ministry of I and M contributes to the initiative of the municipality of Nijmegen to an app that allows people with respiratory problems to consult to get information when there is a health risk. Over the past period, we have focused on the "my air quality" app. That app is a success. Mrs Van Veldhoven has also worked hard on this. We're glad the smog alert has been modified. To what extent is the Nijmegen app linked to the national air quality app?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u241	Mr. Chairman. I was just on my mobile device looking up what a pussy album was.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u242	Turns out that's a poetry album above the rivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u243	And so it's all about a comeback again, but that aside. Mr. Chairman. You'll just stand by it: every week the text "the region is on fire" and you're supposed to do something about it. It will look familiar to both the Minister and the Secretary of State. I have great respect for that myself. Whether it's the Merwede Bridge or the problems that are happening around the N33 in Groningen, day and night you need to be available for it. After these kind words, entirely in the spirit of Mr Van Helvert, I shall make three motions. I'm starting with a motion about the government's own fleet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the state has a large fleet of cars, including more and more electric cars, which are not used for much of the day;]] [[Whereas public authorities can contribute more to the sharing economy, for example by making available (part of) the fleet as sub-cars;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine whether, once the central fleet is ready, a substantial part of the state car fleet can be used for a pilot project in which people can use electric sub-cars in an easily accessible way and inform the Chamber in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Hoogland and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u244	My next motion is about urban accessibility. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas demographic shifts to large cities are stronger than expected and this entails major challenges for accessibility;]] [[calls on the Government to take into account in ongoing studies to what extent bundling of transport flows and solutions across the modes (like Whim in Helsinki) may be part of the solutions for the under pressure urban accessibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland and Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u245	Finally, I have a motion on ProRail. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Government intends to transform ProRail into an independent administrative body (zbo);]] [[considers that this should not be at the expense of the staff's working conditions and the price of train tickets and the usage fee;]] [[calls on the Government to shape the transition of ProRail in such a way that it does not affect the working conditions (including salaries and pensions) of the staff, nor does it affect the price of train tickets and use fees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u246	Mr. Chairman. I have six minutes to speak here, but I think I only have two. I'll start with two compliments. I don't do that much. First of all, the sweeping action at Schiphol Airport has finally taken place. It seems very good to us to tackle those taxi recruiters, because it is not a good business card for our country. Secondly, I would like to congratulate the Minister for the construction of new roads. It has indeed been sown by its predecessors, but I find the Minister enthusiastic. We haven't been given a bill ride in the past cabinet period, so it could have been even worse. The cuts, on the other hand, are not something to be proud of. This minister reaps what her predecessors have sown and sows what her successors are going to reap. I'm very concerned about that. This Minister has harvested well, but has sown too little. I hope that we will be able to catch up in the future. A whole new road-billing coalition has been formed on the left side of this room. The SP up to and including D66 are all excited about it all of a sudden, while I thought we had just finished that discussion. Unfortunately, we are back in the past. My party will enter into the discussion again with all its strength. We shouldn't do this. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the tax on motor vehicles in the Netherlands is far too high;]] [[calls on the Government to halve the vehicle tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u247	For the coverage of EUR 2 billion per year, I refer to our election programme. If this continues, it is of course a great improvement in purchasing power. In this way we also get a shift from taxing property to taxing use. That is exactly the line we need to follow. We don't need to charge for that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u248	I see Mrs Visser on the interrupting microphone, but we would limit the interruptions to the utmost. That's what we just agreed. Is that the case here, Mrs Visser?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u249	Yes, because I am trying to understand what Mr Madlener is proposing. I don't have the text of the motion before me, so I'm just gonna ask. Low burdens, of course, sound very nice, but if Mr Madlener had wanted to do so, would he have just tabled an amendment to the General Financial Reviews? I think I missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u250	For coverage, please refer to our election programme. I'm doing it on purpose. It's $2 billion. I can't just take that out of this budget. That really needs to be taken out of other budgets. That's why we have to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u251	This has been discussed Tuesday night. Mr. Madlener will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u252	No, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u253	No, I won't allow any more interruptions. This has been discussed, done. Mr Madlener continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u254	I'm on my way to the next motion. It's about the distribution between money going to the railroad and money going to the road. There's about as much money on the road as there is on the track. That seems very fair, but of course that is not fair at all, because no less than seven times as many people use the road. In fact, there should be seven times as much money on the road as on the railroad. To get a little chunk back to the road, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more than seven kilometres are travelled by car than by train;]] [[Whereas 95% of journeys in the Netherlands are faster than public transport;]] [[Whereas investment in roads yields more than investment in rail;]] [[calls on the Government to end the ERTMS rail project and to use the available means to build and improve roads,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u255	Then my final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u256	If you want to do that, it is good, but that will be at the expense of the speaking time of other speakers of your party in other budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u257	Then I'm gonna drop the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u258	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u259	Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to both regiments. I have tabled four motions and hope to have time to thank them in detail, but at least I have said so. Working safely at the NS is crucial. Perhaps we do not need 5 million for this, but we want to be sure that we can guarantee that next year too. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas NS personnel should be able to operate safely at any time;]] [[Whereas next year the NS will still need to take into account the costs of additional staff on its own budget;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, in the autumn paper, the contribution that can be made to ensure that sufficient budget is available for the double-humanisation in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u260	Then a motion about the OV-fiets and the bike parking. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the additional funds announced for bicycle parking at stations are a good step in the right direction, but more is needed in the future;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the relevant partners, to draw up a long-term plan with the corresponding funding to fully resolve the deficit of at least 100,000 places by 2030,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas both the energy saving understanding of energy audits and better enforcement of the Environmental Management Act can give a significant incentive to energy saving for companies;]] [[calls on the Government to link the obligation to carry out energy audits to the Environmental Management Act so that the competent authority can request a plan of approach from the company, and to ensure that the laws and regulations provide clear bases for the competent authority to actively maintain,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-44]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u261	This is, of course, only true in cases where the list of measures has not been chosen as a solution. I'm filing my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the air in the Netherlands is far from healthy everywhere, and there are 1 million people in the Netherlands suffering from lung complaints who suffer from unhealthy air;]] [[Whereas the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme (NSL) focuses on European air quality standards, which are not equivalent to healthy air;]] [[noting that in 2017 the Health Council will come up with targets for actual clean air;]] [[calls on the Government, together with provinces and municipalities, to consult in 2017 with a view to reaching a national air plan (NLP) in 2018 to focus this NLP on the targets for healthy air, to address the most polluted points first and to examine, together with the partners, what measures are effective in terms of both health benefits and costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Cegerek, Smaling, Dik-Faber, Van Tongeren, Ouwehand and Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u262	In that one second I have left, I would like to reiterate the thanks to both directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u263	Mr. Chairman. My colleague has already thanked me, so I'll skip that. We have the same opinion in this area and on other subjects. I shall now proceed to read out the motions I have before me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that the separation of water between the Empire, the province and the municipalities, but also between roads, water and rail should be stopped;]] [[believes that different governments, as well as companies, scientific institutions and residents should work together and look at the best way to get from A to B, and not staring blindly at asphalt, a train connection or a bus lane;]] [[calls on the Government to replace the Infrastructure Fund with a access fund based on high-quality national main links and optimal regional networks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u264	I'm going to move on to my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court expressed concerns with regard to the provision of information to Rijkswaterstaat on the management and maintenance of the main road network, including the bridges;]] [[Whereas in the 1960s and 1970s a lot of infrastructure was built, which now requires management and maintenance;]] [[calls on the Government to provide further information to the Chamber on the state of play of the management and maintenance of major strategic bridges on the main road network by the summer of 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u265	I'm aware of my minus, but I can afford that for a while. I had promised to answer the question of the VVD whether D66 is now aiming for a headline on policy. I think there was a misunderstanding. In particular, I had comments on the fact that there is no ambition yet in terms of CO reduction and sulphur control. In fact, we are already doing so, so you will not hear D66 about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u266	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their reply. I would also like to thank the Minister on behalf of my colleague Eppo Bruins for her commitment to look at what the Ministry can do to make the Dutch flag more attractive for commercial cruising vessels. This is important for our economy and for employment. I would like to hear from her when we get more information. I have two motions for resolutions and then a brief comment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that recent TNO research shows that even new scooters do not meet European emission standards while they are wider than those of passenger cars;]] [[Whereas, in particular, cyclists and pedestrians face these health-damaging emissions of ultra-fine dust on a daily basis;]] [[Whereas a new European regulation will end the sale of two-stroke mopeds;]] [[Whereas there are currently alternatives in the form of electric scooters and speed pedelecs;]] [[calls on the government, in the green deal to be concluded, to agree on the remaining stock of two-stroke mopeds and to phase out all petrol mopeds as a spot on the horizon;]] [[calls on the Government to put enforcement in order so that all vehicles comply with European standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u267	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an international CSR agreement (CSR) is being drawn up with the textile industry in order to make the entire textile chain more sustainable;]] [[noting that there are still many improvements to be made in the chain, including in the case of actual recycling of textiles after collection;]] [[Whereas, thanks to a recycling contribution, the Netherlands is also the leader in the valuation of materials of deprecated white goods and electrical appliances;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with the parties concerned within the textile agreement on financing arrangements so that collection and recycling can actually be achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u268	I have to confess, I eat a lot on the way. I'll buy a meal at the station. Unfortunately, that is very often in plastic. I'd love to see that different, but that plastic is right there. Then I try to throw that plastic away in any case separately. I'll come to the station and have to pass six trash cans for all the garbage. With the courage of despair, I'll do it in the seventh trash can. Why is there so many places where so much plastic is sold, no separate collection? I asked questions about this in the first period. They have been answered in writing. In summary, we share the point, but we do not see the solution. My group has previously tabled a motion to make the Waste Fund available to companies, for example for separate collection of waste at stations. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if this is a way she can see for herself. I have held a motion on this point. I'm considering filing that motion, but that depends on the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u269	You can activate your detained motion at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u270	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions. I therefore have plenty of time to thank the directors warmly for their reply and to apologise for being absent from some of their answers, particularly in the appreciation of the amendments. That was not indifference, but there was something in another area that was equally urgent. I would like to thank the directors for the careful way in which they have answered the questions raised. This thanks also to the staff who have undoubtedly contributed to this. The appreciation of the only amendment I have tabled in this dossier was a little raw on the roof. There's a decent cover in it. I am referring to the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party This is a very innovative way of making inland navigation even more compatible with the possibilities that exist and making it a powerful player in the modal shift, that word that we should not use. It's just a way to strengthen that dynamic water traffic management.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u271	If you do it in English, do it right. It's the modal shift.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u272	Yeah, shift. That's right. You're back on your feet, Mr. Chairman. If you could do this, you will make a very active contribution to future possibilities. Of course, the skippers themselves benefit from that. They must also bear the costs. However, you could consider contributing as a government to the start-up costs. The government has an interest in it, too. It is important for the fairway manager. I'm thinking about dredging. It is important to make shipping cleaner. It also helps the integrated approach to mobility and the strengthening of the sector as a whole. There is a social and economic interest. I would like to make it clear to the Minister that one million is still to be made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u273	Mr. Chairman. I remember this minister, when she arrived on her wallet a few years ago, saying: we're going to keep an eye on the environment. In the meantime, the same ministry, through the Secretary of State, talks about drastic choices and the need for a truly different life to save the climate. I'm just saying, nothing's impossible. This also applies to the Secretary of State himself, who, in his former capacity as Minister of Education, had not had so much to do with integrating sustainable education in schools and who is now really working on an approved motion from the Chamber. Nothing's impossible. In order to strengthen that myself, I'm not filing any motions today. Changes can take place, people. Of course, I have something to say. In answering the questions of the Chamber, the Secretary of State underlined once again how urgent it is that we now seek solutions to climate change. The agreement we concluded in Paris is not nauseous. She also said that I thought that was very good and very valuable, for which I thank you for the fact that all important decisions to reach those targets in 2050 will have to be taken in the next five years. This is in line with the motion that the Chamber has already adopted and which I asked for in my first term, namely long-term climate policy. The motion adopted by the Chamber in 2014 calls for a coherent strategy for implementing the necessary and desired system changes. That is why I am not tabling a new motion, but I am asking the Secretary of State to proceed with this. The first test we had for a while in an interrupting debate, about the system changes that are needed, different lives and drastic choices. I asked her about the livestock business. The planning agencies say that there is a need for drastic intervention in agriculture. We also know that shrinkage of livestock is necessary. The Secretary of State did not dare to become concrete there yet. I ask her to explain the long-term climate policy in the next five months so that there is a package on which we can quickly work with a new Chamber and a new Cabinet. It's a safe route for her. I understand she doesn't want to make any concrete commitments right now. I'm asking her to work on that with her people, even if it's an explosive package that's coming up. I can tell her we can handle that and we can keep the VVD quiet. She doesn't have to worry about that anymore. So get to work on carrying out that motion. Agriculture is one thing. Another aspect I have tried to discuss with the Secretary of State is the still existing taboo of dealing with consumption. I have tried to make it clear that there are initiatives to inform people about the environmental impact of their food choices, but that these initiatives are on the margins and actually only reach the informed and involved citizens. I mentioned that there are incredible developments in neuromarketing. The question is: what are we going to do about it? We can reverse the norm. Meat is now the norm. Meat is what is offered. If you want to eat vegetarian, you have to do your best or ask for it. The reversal of the standard can then greatly help. In Belgium and in Britain, behavioral economists and social scientists are used to push people in the right direction, for example with regard to collecting taxpayers' money. The possibilities and the dilemmas that lie there, I am thinking, for example, of nudging, which we must discuss in the Chamber. This way, we can share our thoughts on the choices that we will have to make later. I shall not table a motion here either, but I shall propose to the Chamber that we hold a general debate on this. What do we do with the developments in neuromarketing and nudging? What do we do with the great challenge of making policies on consumption, with respect for citizens' freedom of choice? So I will come up with an initiative to debate this and perhaps organise a hearing, so that we can also participate from the Chamber in the choices that will have to be made in the long term in terms of climate. We're gonna have to cut some buttons. Thank you for the State Secretary's commitment to tackle the detailed plan for sustainable education with the Minister of Education. Thank you also for the commitment to inform the Court of Justice of this before the spring recess. Then we'll talk about it later. I had two final points. One point concerned the end of the fossil age. As far as I am concerned, there is also an exploration in the long-term climate plan that the Secretary of State is hopefully going to write. One of the choices we will have to make is that within ten years our addiction to coal, oil and gas will end. In this light, I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State and everyone here to the protests that are taking place in the Indian reserve Standing Rock, where the Dakota Access Pipeline is threatened with being built. We're with those protesters. It would also be a good idea for the Dutch cabinet to take a more active stance on the interests of clean water, human rights and the preservation of the country. We may not be able to intervene too much there, but we can say what we think. And if it is true that ING and ABN AMRO are involved, we can appeal to them for their responsibility. My final point was that nature is a buffer for climate change. We also see a very clear role for the Minister of Sustainability who is coming to us. In the long-term plan for climate change, we will also have to include elements such as palm oil, whose production is taking devastating forms. We want a European import ban on this and we are going to fight for it. All these elements should be included in the long-term climate plan. As far as we are concerned, this plan will come before the elections, so that there is something to discuss and the Secretary of State no longer has to take into account the interests of the coalition. Then there can really be a free debate about everything we can do to save the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u274	Mr. Chairman. I already mentioned it to Mrs Ouwehand: I believe that there has already been a statement by the person responsible for that pipeline and that alternatives are being looked at. So maybe her wish has already been answered. In my first contribution, I spoke in particular about road safety. I have two motions on that. Before I read it, I would like to thank the two directors for their response, especially for the efficient written response. But sometimes, as a member of parliament, you still feel the need for the Chamber to give a ruling. So that's what I'm going to do, also because I see others asking for similar things. The first motion concerns speed checks at locations with an increased security risk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in Germany controls are much more deployed at sites with an increased security risk, such as intersections;]] [[Considers that checking for speeds at locations with a relatively low safety risk, such as motorways, contributes little or to a lesser extent to reducing the safety risk;]] [[considers that checks on speeds in traffic should be aimed at reducing the risk of accidents and not at bringing in as many fines as possible, even if their proceeds benefit the general means;]] [[calls on the Government to focus more on speeding checks on sites with an increased security risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Houwers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u275	I have spoken, like Mr Van Helvert, about the use of mobile devices, to put it that way. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to Safe Traffic Netherlands, the use of a telephone during traffic is increasingly the cause of accidents;]] [[Whereas it is possible to check for alcohol or drug use after accidents;]] [[Whereas it is technically possible to check most telephones for recent use;]] [[Whereas control of the use of a telephone after an accident may have a deterrent effect and thereby contribute to road safety;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether checking telephones for recent use following a traffic accident is feasible and feasible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Houwers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XII-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u276	This brings me to the end of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u277	Thank you very much. This has also brought us to the end of the parliamentary term. I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes to give the rulers the opportunity to settle the points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u278	I would like to give the floor to the Minister to give a brief and concise opinion on the motions, but she may start by answering the outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u279	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I had a number of outstanding questions. I'll try to answer it as soon as possible. That's gonna save you a few more meetings. Mr Hoogland had asked for 20% electric. How did we achieve that percentage? BZK makes the purchase of the sustainable fleet and had thought that not all electric vehicles are available for all applications. Think about the pickups for the road inspectors. I happened to mention it as an example myself. BZK sees 20% as a feasible percentage. This is also in line with the Green Deal Electric Transport last April, where the commitment is to equip the national car fleet with 20% to 25% electric vehicles by 2020. If the supply increases, more can be realized in the future. Mrs Visser asked when the evaluation on the Merwede Bridge will be completed. This will be in spring 2017. There is indeed a protocol; I have just checked it out. In the event of planned closure, consultation with interested parties shall take place at an early stage. In unplanned situations, restrictive measures may be taken immediately, such as an emergency closure. The environment and those involved will also be informed as soon as possible. Consideration is being given to whether additional rules could be introduced for the future. Mrs Belhaj had asked whether the maintenance situation of the area could be seen at the touch of a button. Rijkswaterstaat has a good picture of the maintenance situation of the infrastructure and works of art. About 6,000 works of art are managed, including about 4,000 bridges and viaducts. A file is available in the DISK system, the Data Information System Artworks. Such a file consists of inspection reports, maintenance plans and conditions for safe use. This is also used by contractors in the work. Mrs Belhaj also asked for 300 million for the UNG for road safety. I didn't recognize that. We provide almost 2 billion from the Empire to local authorities for traffic and transport. A large part of it goes through the Province Fund. Previously, it was through the BDU. Transport regions still receive this through the I and M budgets. This includes road safety, infrastructure, operation and public transport. It's about everything. I understand that it is mainly a wish of them to get an additional 300 million on top of that. Mr Madlener and Mrs Visser asked for the abolition of speed police following a report at RTL News. I just switched with the Department of V and J. The first reaction of V and J is that it has been decided to organize it in a different way. They had started a pilot there to shape it in a certain way, but they're going to organize it differently. Eventually, the traffic police, together with all the other employees of the Infrastructure Service, will direct his almost 1,300 employees to the fact that more arrests can be made, at least that's how I understand it. Their intention is to significantly increase the standing of serious traffic offences on the main infrastructure. This is the message I received from V and J about his intention and its design. I also read the message on RTL. It says: sources say that... There is no letter from the Minister of Justice on that point either. So I think it would be a good idea for the Chamber to ask for more information about this at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u280	I did ask for that in the first place. Of course, this is an excuse from V and J. I really want to ask the Minister if she wants to take a firm stand against this, because the police who are just being hired to keep people standing are now being cut off and all the others have to go along with it. The Minister himself knows how that goes, because we all know how much work it is for an ordinary agent to keep someone standing, especially because of the administrative acts afterwards. Is the Minister just gonna swallow this story of V and J or is she gonna go against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u281	In the debate, I have just said that it is very important, in my view, if you lay down rules, that they can also be enforced. I will make that very clear to my colleague, but it is now a cup of coffee. He says no letter was sent, but it's about sources. I don't want to speculate on this. Mrs Dijksma had a wonderful saying from her grandmother about the "what if" situation. I think it is a good thing that the Chamber asks for more information and gets more information about what it really is about. My position has also been asked. I think it is important to maintain it. I have made sure that a pilot has been launched and that our own road inspectors are given more powers to enforce.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u282	We agreed that we were going to be very restrictive. Mr Van Helvert has received an answer to his question. I call Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u283	I'd just like to say I'm surprised. We often have debates here with Minister Van der Steur and Minister Schultz. They work closely together, I thought, and that's what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u284	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u285	The Minister seems to be completely ambushed and surprised by this. That surprises me, because there is cooperation between the Justice Department and this Minister to promote road safety. That appearance is also raised, because the debates are held together, but now the Minister knows nothing. I do not think this deserves the beauty prize, and I would like to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u286	It would be serious if something had gone out without my knowledge, but nothing went out without my knowledge. Like I said before, it's sources that say that. The Justice Department has not yet issued a decision on this matter. The Minister of Justice knows how important it is for me and for the Chamber to increase the chances of getting caught. In fact, I hear people think this is only gonna get better. Furthermore, it is really still an internal journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u287	Mr Hoogland has just made an application for a debate on an additional arrangement of work. I think this is good. I think it would also be a good idea for the Minister to deal with this in a moment's time with the motion on the chance of getting caught. It's about the chance of getting rid of those traffic cocksuckers. I think it is also a good thing that a letter should be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible to give some more text and explanation about its status, because I understood that the Ministry of Security and Justice did respond to it in the media. I believe that everyone in the Chamber now wants clarification on road safety and the handling of traffic hoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u288	To be precise, Mr Hoogland has not requested any additional work to be done, but he has asked for this matter to be referred to the Court for consideration next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u289	Then I would like to clarify my question and ask the Minister, possibly in conjunction with the Minister of V and J, for additional explanations on this possible decision, even before Tuesday's settlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u290	The Minister heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u291	A point of order, that was exactly the request I made earlier, namely for a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u292	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u293	I don't care who's the main applicant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u294	We'll see about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u295	You can do it together. Once again, as far as I understand, no decision has yet been taken by my colleague, who has been brought out, but is concerned with sources, i.e. internal decision-making. I'd like to ask if he's ready to say anything about that, but I think it's rather crazy to have to respond as Minister of I and M to something announced in the outside world as sources saying that... Perhaps it would be a good idea for the first question to be formally sent to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u296	I suggest that we do not have an order debate on this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u297	No, I wanted to talk about the content. The minister claims it's hearsay, based on sources. In a respected newspaper, de Volkskrant, a spokesperson of the national unit confirms that the team of twenty agents did a good job, but that the work has simply ended after two years, according to that spokesperson, whose name I will not mention. Then it is clear that it is not about hearsay, but that it is confirmed by the team itself. If the person responsible for road safety in the cabinet is apparently unaware of this, then the question is what is going on here. I would also like to clarify this in the letter that has already been requested and confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u298	I will. I shall now turn to Mrs Dik-Faber's question about the ccvs, the commercial cruising vessels. The relevant investigation is almost complete. I hope to be able to inform the Chamber of the results and the follow-up this year. I should like to comment on Mr Bishop's speech. He asked in the amendment to No. 10 (34550-A) to make another 1 million available to Covadem. I share Mr Bishop's view that the system offers many advantages. That's what I said. Unfortunately, he wasn't there, but I'm sure he can still read that I've spoken positive words about that. In particular, the skippers benefit from this. That is why I said last time that I paid once and that I think that the market should now pay for that. I supported Covadem's pilot. The sector is now simply to embrace the possibilities. I don't want to do this forever. I therefore still reject the amendment, even if it is only a limited amount. The PVV had a story about sowing and harvesting. I have tried to make it clear to Mr Madlener that we have sown more than the predecessors and therefore I expect my successors, whoever they may be, to be able to reap more than I do. However, I think I need a few more debates to convince him of that. Mrs Mulder from the CDA said that we would send a letter before 7 December. She asked me in the debate to consult with my colleague and to tell him what I would do in connection with the motions to initiate the debate on the mainport. I will, but will a letter be sent? I think this is an AO that my colleague will be carrying out. That's up to my colleague. I have indicated that I will consult with him before then and will provide him with all the information that is requested in the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u299	It's not so strange that a statement of motions is given, is it? It usually comes two weeks after the motions are filed. That's a lot to ask. Now that my motion has been passed, I would like a response from the cabinet within two weeks. 7 December is not such a crazy guideline for a letter showing how these motions are interpreted by the various ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u300	This is something you should discuss with the Minister of Economic Affairs, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u301	That's actually what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u302	Well, okay. As long as that letter comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u303	I think the Minister of EZ will do the same. What the chairman says is exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u304	Maybe you could make another phone call about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u305	We form a single cabinet and we share the same opinion. I will at least ensure that my information is discussed there in time, but it is primarily up to him to determine the reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u306	I'm gonna take a look at the clock. We still have a lot to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u307	Yeah, excuse me. I'll go into the motions. In the first motion, the motion of members Van Tongeren, Visser and Hoogland to item No. 20, it's about Talking Traffic. I wish I could say it in French now that the President has received such an important award, but unfortunately I cannot. All I can say is I'm taking over the motion. New techniques do make traffic smarter. I interpret this motion as a policy support. I take over the motion and assume that I can inform the Chamber through the regular channels of information about developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u308	I'm gonna go do the exact thing. You say "support policy" and you say "I'm taking over the motion." You can't do both. You can take over the motion, but I must ask the Chamber if all Members agree that you do so. That's what I'm asking now. I see and hear no objection. That means the motion will be taken over. It is therefore no longer part of the debate and will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u309	I'm going into the Van Tongeren motion on piece number one. 21. It makes a special request in that regard. It asks the government to agree in the Coastal Pact that existing buildings should be renovated or disposed of wherever possible. I assume that she does not mean the entire building of Scheveningen and that it will be otherwise meant. I'm gonna have to ask this MP to hold the motion. If she doesn't want to, I'm gonna have to discourage the motion. This concerns the responsibility of the province and municipalities. That's not up to us. However, I will take the suggestion into account in the debate on zoning, because they decide their own zoning and they decide which places they do or do not work in. I therefore ask the author to hold the motion. And if you don't, I'm gonna back off the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u310	The problem is that Mrs Van Tongeren is no longer here, at least not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u311	Shall I then dissuade the motion for convenience, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u312	That's up to you. The advice you have given is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u313	Then I come to the motion in part No. 25 by Mr Smaling, inviting the government to examine various options for the transfer of payments for possession to payments for use, while highlighting the advantages and disadvantages of the various systems. As has already been mentioned in the debate, information on pricing is available and is also publicly available. I'm not going to do that again. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u314	This was the motion in part No. 25. That means that the motions on pieces Nos. 22, 23 and 24 will be dealt with by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u315	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u316	I'll keep those motions separate for a while and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u317	In the motion in part No. 26 by Mrs Visser and Mr Hoogland, in the context of increasing the chances of taking action, the government is invited to give its attention to the national priorities of the Office as soon as possible. I'm taking over this motion. The Minister of V and J and I are currently examining how road safety and traffic enforcement can, if necessary, get more attention, including in the local triangle. We aim to inform the Road Traffic Chamber of 15 December. The national priorities are focused on the deployment of teams of traffic. This commitment focuses in particular on national priorities such as speed, alcohol, red light, multiplegers and distractions. I regard the motion as a policy support and therefore take it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u318	Mr Madlener has a question on the Minister's opinion on the motion by Mrs Visser and Mr Hoogland. Am I hearing that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u319	Yeah, that's right. I doubt I can give a positive opinion on this. The small fines are a thorn in our eye; all these very small speeding offences do nothing about road safety. However, this increases the chance of getting caught. But I don't want to increase the odds of someone driving 50 km/h instead of 50 km/h. If the Minister says we're going to do the whole package, I don't support it. If the Minister or the petitioner explains the motion in such a way that it is not about those very small fines, that is another story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u320	I just said it's about things like speed, alcohol, red light, multiplegers and distractions. It's very difficult to say whether something is a minor or a major offense. If you drive too fast, for example in a residential area, a few kilometers can be too much, while on a highway you don't notice the difference between 100 km/h and 110 km/h very much. Responding to Mr Madlener, I cannot say that we will turn a blind eye with small differences in speed, apart from the fact that I am still not the one to pass the fines. I think it's good that we keep the tasks separate. I'll take care of the speed increases or reductions if they're needed, and the Minister of V and J is about the fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u321	I will reply because Mr Madlener had questions on behalf of the proposers. The motion refers very explicitly to "the number of standing positions." The number of standing positions also implies just asshole behavior, whether in a residential area or on the highway. It may be speed, but as far as we are concerned, it is also the people who are driving with alcohol, following the guidance of the Public Prosecutor, who said that they should be explicitly part of it. Perhaps this will reassure Mr Madlener. We were just having the debate about RTL's report that a team is being disbanded. I would like to include that in the letter. The Minister says to take over the motion, but it is also explicitly about the number of standing positions and the team of traffic, which is apparently being lifted, is part of that. I wonder how that relates to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u322	As I said, I will clarify this for the next general discussion. If it's possible, I'd like to try to put that in the letter that the Chamber wants to receive for Tuesday. However, I am dependent on the specific information I get from V and J at this point. The commitment of both of us, regardless of the form of organisation that the Chamber is now concerned about, is precisely to increase the chance of taking action and strengthen enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u323	I have the same point here, Mr President. I do not deny anyone that his motion will be taken over, but we still need...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u324	I'm about to ask that question. The Minister said she wanted to take over the motion. Are there any groups that object to this? Mr Madlener or Mrs Belhaj perhaps? I'm doing this through the formal channels, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u325	Nice. We do not necessarily object to this, but would like the motion to be put to the vote so that we have a little more time to look carefully at this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u326	In that case, the motion will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u327	I am now at the motion for a resolution on part No. 27, Mrs Visser's report on road safety. I'm taking over this motion. The motion calls on the government to explore, together with the IPO and the VNG, how to agree on municipal and provincial roads to set up this traffic safety device. As I said earlier, I am working on the new Road Safety Strategy, which focuses on the risk approach. As I will draw up this new strategy with the other governments, I will also point out the motion in this way and consider it to support policy. So I'm taking over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u328	Does one of the Members object to this takeover, with the interpretation that the Minister has just given? That is not the case. This motion shall be taken over, shall no longer be part of the debate and shall not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u329	The motion in part No. 28 invites the government to ensure that, in the development of the new MIRT system, the coherence and flow of the main and underlying road network is an integral part of this process and to include the bottlenecks analysis of the ANWB in the forthcoming administrative consultations around the MIRT. I'm taking over this motion. We must, of course, realise that we have agreed that provinces and transport regions have their own decision-making area for the use of their own resources, whether they are provincial, come from the Municipal Fund or come from a broad target benefit. However, I also read this motion as an appeal to the regions to look closely at the whole coherence of the road network and to agree on it jointly. I'll take this from here. It will also be possible, because we want to use such a more programmatic and flexible approach for the future. This will enable us to respond to all developments in infrastructure and investment in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u330	Is there any objection to takeover? That is not the case, so this motion is no longer part of the debate and it will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u331	In her motion in part No. 29 calls on Mrs Visser to limit the use of red crosses in the event of incidents and road works to those sections for which this is strictly necessary from the point of view of safety and to actively communicate to the road user about the application of red crosses. I'm taking over this motion. In the event of incidents and operations, Rijkswaterstaat crosses to ensure the safety of road workers, emergency services and salvagers. We're working with incident management. In order to prevent the incomprehension of road users, we can provide more and better communication about the nature and duration of incident work. I will check with Rijkswaterstaat whether there are possible optimizations in crossing the lanes and the communication about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u332	I note that none of the Members objects to the adoption, so this motion will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u333	The Secretary of State will respond to the motions on the documents No. 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34. I now come to the motion on part No. 35 by Mr Van Helvert and others This motion calls on the government to draw up a concrete action plan on achieving road safety objectives in terms of the number of road deaths and injuries, with a view to giving explicit attention to smartphone use. I see this motion as a policy support. I have already said that I am working on the new Road Safety Strategy, which will review the objectives. I will inform the Chamber before the AO of 15 December about the handling of the use of the smartphone on the bike. I think that's why I'm taking over this motion. In the case of 'policy support', a motion is taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u334	Mr Helvert of the CDA has a question on this interpretation. It's starting to make me a bit of a fool of myself, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I have a question about that interpretation. The Minister went through the motion very quickly, but I did not hear her speak about the essential points relating to the Association of Insurance Companies. What is the Minister's position and how do we deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u336	I indicated that smartphone use will explicitly get a place in it. Much earlier than the plan is due to come in 2018, as I said in the debate, I will already respond to the smartphone, for example for the next AO on road safety of 15 December about smartphone use on the bike. Over the years, as we conduct more targeted research, as D66 had requested, we will be able to provide more information about other types of smartphone usage. Mr Houwers has also said something about it. There's still a lot coming for you at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u337	Is the proposal to take over the motion welcomed by the Chamber? That is the case, so it will no longer be part of the debate and will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u338	The motions on pieces No. 36 and No. 37 will be dealt with by the Secretary of State. I come to the motion Hoogland/Van Veldhoven on piece No. 38 over the fleet. I welcome Mr Hoogland's proposal. We are working to grow from 60 different fleets to one state car park; this is an administrative and organisational challenge. I do not know if this can be increased with a partial car concept with citizens. In addition, most cars are closed and not in publicly accessible areas. When the central fleet is ready, this will also pave the way for some concepts, such as subconcepts. As I said earlier, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is acting on this. I'm a little doubting the advice I have to give. It says "investigative," and it's already under investigation, so I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. I can give it to my colleague from BZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u339	Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u340	Yes, I apologize for using the abbreviation, Mr President. The motion in part No. 39 by Mr Hoogland and Mrs Visser on Whim Helsinki, on behalf of the Secretary of State, because she is on both of our territory. I see this as a policy support. Together with the local authorities, I investigate what options exist to minimise the difference between financial flow and cost increases. Innovation through the market is an important opportunity; I am also giving it an important place in the future. Whim is a beautiful innovation from the concept "mobility as a service" and we can also use it. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. The Secretary of State discusses the motion in part No. 40. The Madlener motion in part No. 41 is about halving the vehicle tax. Despite the fact that this motion does have cover, Mr Madlener has not added it, but he mentioned that it is included in the PVV election programme, it is not real coverage, because the PVV election programme has no formal status in our budget. After the General Reviews at the budget meeting of the Ministry of Finance, there is the possibility to move between ministries. That's the time to do this. I do not agree with the content of the cover, but that is a completely different story. I have to discourage this motion. Perhaps next year Mr Madlener can try with better coverage after the General Reviews at the Minister of Finance. The motions on pieces No. 42 to 46 are dealt with by the Secretary of State. I come to the Belhaj motion in part No. 47 in which the government is asked to replace the Infrastructure Fund with a access fund based on high-quality national main links and optimal regional networks. I advise this motion for two reasons. At the beginning of the motion it says that the water separation between the Empire, the province and the municipalities must be stopped. I don't share that opinion. I think we should have a separate national budget. Whether or not you should have a more strict separation between different modalities is now being examined in the interdepartmental policy investigation. This exploration will be sent to the Chamber and the advantages and disadvantages of a accessibility fund will then be addressed. I will inform the Chamber about this during this cabinet period, so I think it is premature to set up a accessibility fund on the basis of a motion. I therefore advise against this motion, but we are studying its content. In substance, therefore, Mrs Belhaj and I may be able to get closer together. In her motion in part No. 48 Ms Belhaj asked the government to provide further information to the Chamber on the state of management and maintenance of the major strategic bridges on the main road network by the summer of 2017. I can agree to this motion, so I'll take her over. Through the conservation annex of the Infrastructure Fund and the MIRT, I inform the Chamber about the management and maintenance of replacement and renovation notices. I have already, in the annual report for 2016, committed to providing an indication of the extent of delayed and delayed maintenance by network, i.e. for roads, waterways and water. I can extend this promised overview and specifically indicate whether there is a lack of maintenance at these bridges and, if so, how much this is and what bridges it concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u341	I see that none of the members are against takeover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u342	The motions on the documents Nos. 49 and 50 will deal with the Secretary of State. Then I come to the Houwers motion in part No. 51, in which the government is invited to focus more on checking for speeding offences at sites with increased security risk. Both the enforcement with digital enforcement tools, i.e. the flashboxes and route controls, and police enforcement through standing will take place in places where this contributes to road safety. In my new road safety strategy, enforcement will also be addressed in the context of the risk-driven approach, focusing on specific local issues. So I can take over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u343	I see that none of the Members object to takeover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u344	In his motion in part No. 52 Mr Houwers asked the government to examine whether checking telephones for recent use after a traffic accident is feasible and feasible. I will investigate what is possible to check afterwards in the event of major accidents whether a smartphone has been used shortly before the accident, including the relationship between use and accident. I don't know if it's possible, including from the point of view of privacy, but I'd like to have this investigated. So I'd like to take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u345	Does any of the Members object to taking over the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u346	Yes. We would like to see for ourselves what it means for privacy. We would therefore like to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u347	Then the motion cannot be taken over and it simply comes to the vote. There's one more change of players. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u348	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps I can say a sentence, if only one, to congratulate you, Mr President. You are chevalier dance l'ordre national de la Légion d'honneur, I understand. Of course, that's a mouthful in a foreign language, but it's beautiful. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u349	Thank you very much. It got out this afternoon. The award will be awarded later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u350	I shall begin with a number of subjects which have partly remained in the first period. An important subject is the plans unfolded this morning by Mr Janaillac, Trust Together. I can report that a letter will probably be sent to the Chamber tonight with a more extensive appreciation of that plan. In any case, it is clear that the CEO of Air France-KLM really wants to improve the situation at Air France. It is, of course, a great need to become more competitive, to have higher cost-effectiveness and at the same time to be more productive. This is not just the case with Air France, as you know. This is also the case with KLM. We have always said from the Dutch public interest that we will pay attention to the quality of the network, the strong position of KLM and, of course, that there will be no job losses in the Netherlands. At first sight, the plans that have now been presented seem to me to be positive. Of course, we will also have to follow the way in which this plan is worked out. We will do that very carefully. The House will receive this letter and I will hear whether you are satisfied with it or whether there will be another debate. That's not up to me. I would like to say to Mrs Ouwehand that she has said a lot about the enormous challenge we face. I do not agree with all the comments she has made. It is very important that we work together within the cabinet on a coherent strategy for the future. We do so in good cooperation and we are always making great strides there. We have done so and we will continue to do so as far as I am concerned. I would like to say that there are still plenty of documents coming up, and I can assure you that in the coming months too, there will be plenty of debate. There are no taboos, but there are choices. That is, in the end, just a political balance. I am sorry about Mrs Mulder and Mr Bishop. I mistakenly thought that some of their questions were in the written answer concerning the asbestos regime and the elaboration of the indeed ambitious plan to bring about a clean-up before 2024. Everyone has recognised the need for a substantial effort to achieve this. It was deployed a few years ago. It is now becoming apparent that steps are being taken there. Until last year, on average, around 4.5 million m of roofs were renovated each year. In the first half of this year, a similar amount has been cleaned up. The incentive arrangement, as I reported, has recently been raised. We are now working on a broad partnership. I'll be right back to the motions. We are working together, among other things, with Deputy Prevoo, one of the ambassadors Mr Smaling said: I know him well in order to develop a common approach and support new initiatives. For example, we have constant discussions with LTO and others, because there is much to do in the agricultural sector. I know the position of the companies involved, so I know that's not easy. The Chamber gets the plan of action. Then we can judge with each other whether we are on the right track. I shall, of course, give an appreciation of the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u351	I tabled a motion for a national plan of action in March. I assume that's what you're referring to. In the motion I had asked for this to be done before the end of 2016. Speaking of which, I wonder what the state of affairs there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u352	I am working with the deputy and others to carry out that motion. By the end of the year, we will come up with this plan of action. Mrs Dik-Faber had asked a question about the separation of waste at stations. She asked if we could still use the old Waste Fund for that. Within the programme VANG Buitenshuis, as it is so beautifully called, initiatives on waste separation are being worked on, among other things, at stations. There's even a green deal on that. We are investigating whether solutions can be found financially within the framework of the Waste Fund packaging. I myself have seen that the new FLIRT trains, which will soon be on track, have wonderful opportunities to separate waste. Mrs Cegerek asked about the national air quality app and the Nijmegen combustion alarm app. Can we set things up? That app for the fire alarm is a pilot. They haven't been paired yet. We can see in the long run whether that is possible, but I cannot make a promise about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u353	That's good news from the Secretary of State about separating waste. I'm glad they're working on it. When I tabled the motion, we had a discussion about citizens' waste, about consumers' waste. That system is indeed there in the train and at the stations. But you can also see it on campsites and in hospitals. Is there such a wide-ranging view or is it really specifically about the stations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u354	That question about the campsites was included in the written answer. Out of my mind, the answer is "yes." Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about the green deal on scooters. I informed the Chamber last July about my intention to make such a green deal. We started working with RAI, ANWB, BOVAG and Scooter Recycling Netherlands and we hope to finish the green deal this year. If that succeeds, we will, of course, inform the Chamber. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked when the Health Council would deliver its opinion on the future air quality policy. The Health Council will issue that opinion at the end of 2017. In 2018, the new Air Plan will come. At least that's what the department's planning is now holding. Until then, we have the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme and the Air Quality Action Plan with which we are working to improve air quality. Mrs Van Veldhoven referred to a motion on cascading biomass. In the national-wide Circular Economy Programme, we have indicated that cascading plays an important role in the sustainable use of biomass. We are also going to focus on this in the transition agendas that we will draw up in the framework of the state-wide summer programme. I must make a correction in my response to Mrs Van Tongeren's speech. I have promised a deadline of 3 kV, but it does not appear to be the first but the second quarter of 2017. We switched with NS and ProRail among others. They still have to deliver capacity "in child." The first quarter is just not feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u355	Mrs Van Tongeren will read back the Acts. Are we going to the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u356	That's right. Last but not least. In her motion, Mrs Van Tongeren asks for item No. 22 to look, in consultation with, among others, the VNG, at the direction of municipalities and provinces on climate and energy-related issues. I want to take over this motion. More and more local authorities have climate plans and are also looking at drawing up the energy agenda. We are actually already engaged in this consultation. So I could simply take over the motion in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u357	Does any of the Members object to taking over the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u358	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u359	I see that this applies to more parties. Then we'll just vote on it. Then what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u360	Then I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I come to speak about the motion on item No. 23 about the taxi recruiters. I see this motion as supporting policy and leave it to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 24 ask Mr Smaling and Mr Van Veldhoven to "make a map of the mess of regulations relating to asbestos remodelling and to examine the possibilities of including them in a single umbrella scheme for asbestos remodelling'. I would actually advise against this motion, but I would like to make a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u361	That's a special combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u362	Politics is also about meeting each other. Honestly, I do not think it would be a good idea to come up with a single overall arrangement, also because there are sometimes reasons for organizing something regional with its own arrangement. But what I can do is see what kind of arrangements there are. We are actually working on such an inventory in the plan of action. Then there is the question of how we match these arrangements so much that they reinforce each other. I think that's what you're talking about. I understand the objective of the motion, but you can withdraw it and then this would be my commitment. But now to one arrangement we're not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u363	Are you going into the advances, Mr. Smaling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u364	That's what I'm gonna do, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u365	What does that mean in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u366	That I withdraw the motion. As far as I'm concerned, this commitment is fine. The same applies to Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u367	Since the Smaling/Van Veldhoven motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u368	Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Remco Dijkstra on part No. 30. It aims to remove obstacles to energy performance fees. That seems to me to be an excellent idea in itself, but this is Minister Blok's policy area. I do not like having to make a motion for a resolution in his area, while he himself is still conducting an investigation. I would ask Mr Dijkstra to hold the motion. I will, of course, indicate in my consultation with my colleague how important this is. In substance, I can fully follow Mr Dijkstra, but I would also not like to see motions for resolutions tabled by colleagues which fall under my responsibility, which I cannot see for a moment. It is therefore a matter of fair game; I would ask Mr Dijkstra to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u369	And then what? You don't have to react immediately, but if you have something to say, you have to do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u370	Before the vote, I would like to consider whether I am holding the motion or whether it is going to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u371	Mr Dijkstra is now forcing me to give an opinion. I'll do it procedurally. Again, the content is very sympathetic to me. But for procedural reasons, I advise against the motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 31. The same goes for that, but this is on my territory. I am exploring what steps should now be taken to link the agreement we concluded in Montreal with the current policy on aviation and ETS. I very much agree with Mr Dijkstra that we should not delay our European air transport sector. That's entirely at your service, I'd like to say. However, I would not like to anticipate proposals because I would like to await the Commission's analysis and possible proposals. My request is to hold this motion. I really understood the message, but give the Commission the opportunity to do something about it. Otherwise, the same judgment, i.e. dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u372	I will give the same answer on this motion: I will conclave with the spokesmen. I got your message.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u373	That's it. Then I come to the motion by Mr Remco Dijkstra/Cegerek on part No. 32, which calls on the government to support entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups. I think that's an excellent idea. I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Remco Dijkstra on part No. 33, which states that the government must come up with a plan of action before the end of the year and take a good look at risk assessment and cost efficiency. As I have said, I am actually working on this, not just, but in conjunction with a whole series of parties. Of course, we are also looking at efficiency. This motion is policy support. I'm willing to take her over, because this is just standing policy. The House will have the plan in December. If no one objects, I can take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u374	Mrs Cegerek, first an explanatory question before you give your opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u375	As I said, there has been a motion from me for a national approach since March. I do not think it is necessary to carry out this motion. It's as if the Secretary of State is now working on another plan of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u376	Well, no, I just explained that we're doing this. I have also referred to your motion before. It's just nice to see so many parties wanting the same thing. I myself think that is excellent, but I said I could take over the motion. I'm sticking to that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u377	Does any of the members object to taking over the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u378	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u379	Well, in that case, I say judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u380	Then the motion will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u381	Then we get to the Van Helvert c.s. motion. in piece No. 34. He wants the funds earmarked to be placed in the compensation scheme for vans in neighbouring municipalities. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. Setting up an environmental zone is, as the Chamber knows, a local choice. If a municipality chooses to do so, it can also provide compensation for entrepreneurs. However, a motion by Mr Schouten and Mr Groot has been adopted in favour of a broader buy-back regime. The implementation of this motion will also consider whether there could be a relationship with diesel fraud. The Chamber will be informed in 2017 by its colleagues from Finance. That's what I'm gonna say. That is also why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u382	I think something went wrong somewhere and we're not as far apart as we think. The money has already been earmarked and is on the shelf. Nor do I see the combination with diesel fraud. It's actually about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u383	Would you like to cut to the chase?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u384	I would like to ask the Secretary of State to take a look at this, because the money is just on the shelf for the purpose we call, but the budget says that we are taking it easy and just looking at how we are going to do it. In the meantime, the signatories of my motion say: 'Come up with that money, these environmental zones are not a fan of it,' but they are there, and we want the money that is intended for it to be spent.' Would the Secretary of State like to take a look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u385	I don't think this money is on my budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u386	Just a point of order on how the Secretary of State interprets that motion. Members who have signed the motion have already tabled a motion on banning environmental zones. The Secretary of State is right to say that there are environmental zones now, but a number of municipalities are now expanding those zones. In the meantime, entrepreneurs would like to make use of the compensation scheme set up by the State Secretary, but they cannot do so now. This motion calls for this. Those funds are on the Secretary of State's budget. She set up that scheme last year for vans. When municipalities introduce zones, entrepreneurs in neighbouring municipalities can rely on a compensation scheme. Apparently, there are also many discussions about diesel fraud and compensation arrangements at Finance. That will be all, but there is also simply a subsidy scheme in the budget of this State Secretary and our request with this motion is: make sure that the money that is already available is spent. This is completely separate from the debate on the usefulness and need of environmental zones, because these entrepreneurs are simply entitled to do so. Make it available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u387	I propose that I send a letter to the Chamber about exactly what the discussion is, because we are not getting out of it now. I think it would be useful to include the Chamber in that. Then we'll pick up this point. My request now is to hold this motion. I want to be very precise, by the way. The motion referred to by Mrs Visser on the environment was about the uniformity required of the cabinet to make road signs in favour of environmental zones. The Chamber said that we do not. Setting up an environmental area is and remains a local responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u388	I'm sure that'll be in that letter again. Is the Secretary of State's suggestion to hold the motion pending that letter followed, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u389	That would be a pity, because the Secretary of State himself mentioned it in her answer to Question 59. Maybe it's possible that we get the letter before the vote? After all, it's not such a big item. Then we can add another sleeve before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u390	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u391	Okay, fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u392	But what happens to that motion? Is it being stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u393	No, Mr. Chairman. The letter comes before the vote, so we can just decide on it in the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u394	I will also add a written appreciation of the motion so that everyone can see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u395	That's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u396	I'm getting to the motion on part No. 36, by Mrs Cegerek. It calls for the Air Quality Action Plan to be used more widely than only in Rotterdam and Amsterdam, and to work towards WHO advisory values. I say again that the current Air Quality Action Plan is already broader than just Amsterdam and Rotterdam. We work closely with seven major cities. The action plan also contains a very wide range of measures. I am indeed on my way to working towards a plan for 2018. It will also include the NEC Directive and the advice of the Health Council. As has already been said, we also want to work towards the WTO targets. However, that is something other than the legal definition. If I may interpret this in this way, I can leave this motion to the discretion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u397	I have a very clear question, Mr President. This is not my motion, but I am asking this question precisely because the Secretary of State gives it the interpretation she has just expressed, and because I want clarification on this. Does the Secretary of State say that as long as the NEC directives have not yet entered into force, the starting point is simply the current EU values? The NEC Directive will then be transposed into European laws and regulations. These remain the basic principles and legal standards. Work will then be carried out on the development of WHO standards, which will largely be achieved through the NEC Directive. However, I believe that it is good to establish what will not be legally regulated and what the Ministry of I and M are seeking on behalf of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u398	This is a fair question. I have always said that WTO targets will not be legally anchored. I'm gonna hold on to that. We will adhere to European legal standards. However, that does not relieve anyone of the duty to do so, where you can put something on top of it. That's a matter of measure. Such proposals will also be made in the Action Plan. Then the Chamber can also see what is acceptable or not acceptable, which is cost-effective or not. That is something other than transforming WTO targets into legislation. The latter is not the intention. That's why I said that should be clear. There will be another motion later, and that is exactly the same basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u399	As important as this may be, I would ask the Secretary of State to respond a little more compactly, because people are already eager for a further budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u400	Yes, I know, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 37 is about Zeeland. That's what I'm saying: "Very good, let's get to work." Judgment Room. On the motion in part No. 40, about ProRail, I want to say two things. I find this motion to support policy. My assessment of this motion is that it must be up to the Chamber to give a ruling on it. But I have just exchanged with Mr Van Helvert that we are not having the debate on this today. That is why I can also imagine that it is chic. Let me take a look at Mr Hoogland's report in order to hold the vote on the motion until a time when the debate has taken place. However, I would like to say that what is in the motion is what I intend to do. So the motion is policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u401	On the basis of the conversation we have had here in the Chamber and of conversations I have had in the corridors, I say that I fully agree with what the Secretary of State is saying. So we're holding this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u402	At the request of Mr Hoogland, I propose his motion (3450-XII, No. 40). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u403	I come to Mr Madlener's motion, to item No. 42. He does not want an ERTMS, or at least less, and he wants to use the resources available to build roads. That is a one-way "dissuade"; he can check that himself. In the motion in part No. 43 calls for additional resources for double-humanisation. I made $10 million available once. Of course, the money doesn't grow on my back. I would like to see this as an effort obligation. The amounts mentioned in Mrs van Veldhoven's amendments are far from the amounts available. So I want to see what's still possible and I'll come back to this. But this is not a promise. In that sense, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u404	This motion was not ours either, but I do have a clarifying question about it. My colleague, Mrs De Boer, has also tabled a motion in the past to extend this and not just look at rail, but also at regional transport. This motion only controls the NS, so it's on track. If the Secretary of State is looking at this, we would like it to be extended and regional transport also to be looked at. Just came back with reports of a bus driver's assault. The Secretary of State recently signed the action programme. I think she'd look at it more broadly. Is the Secretary of State prepared to broaden the interpretation of the motion and to include not only rail but also regional transport in it, as an effort obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u405	This reduces the chances of the operation being successful. Again, this may be about very small amounts. We also carried out Mrs De Boer's motion. I have also earmarked part of this 10 million for measures for all carriers. The fate of the bus drivers is just as much to my heart. But I think that the decentralised concession providers should take their own responsibility here. They really have to, 'cause otherwise everybody's gonna be looking at me all day. That's a lot of fun, but it doesn't always work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u406	What is your verdict on the motion in part No. 44?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u407	I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I already have to do something in one area and I do not want to start thinking about something else in front of another cabinet. That's really gotta be another ruler. So the motion in part No. 44 is not recommended. The motion in part No. I should like to leave it to your Chamber to decide, but with the same interpretation as Mrs Cegerek's motion on air quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u408	This was the motion in part No. 46. What is your verdict on the motion in part No. 45?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u409	Sorry, the motions were reversed. I now come to the motion on part No. 45. It is about linking energy audits to the Environmental Management Act and about clear principles for enforcement. I'd like to look at that link and see if the Environmental Management Act can be improved. However, I do not want to make an energy audit mandatory. If I may read the motion in such a way that I am only going to look at a better link, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. But then Mrs Van Veldhoven has to come out here and say it out loud, so I won't be told later that I should have done more. Because in that case, I would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u410	I think it is right that the Secretary of State should send us a letter about the results of what she has been looking at. And then I'll hold the motion. The Secretary of State is already willing to do this. If we still want to have a discussion about making a commitment, we will do so on the basis of that investigation. That is also clearer for all colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u411	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (3450-XII, No. 45). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u412	Please continue with the motion in part No. 49.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u413	It's about enforcement. A green deal is already under way and the phase-out of polluting mopeds is the perspective. I would therefore like to leave this motion to the House's judgement. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 50. That's the same thing. We are already working on a covenant, as Mrs Dik-Faber knows. We are also looking at financing arrangements. Moreover, this is an effort obligation and not an outcome obligation. It is therefore up to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u414	That brings us to the end of the reply. I'm being a little short, because the next team is already ready. Thank you very much for the comprehensive answer. I would also like to thank Members for their commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u415	I propose that we vote on the motions next Tuesday and on the budget and the amendments in the week from 6 to 8 December.
