ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. I give the floor to Mrs Siderius as the first speaker on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. I will begin by giving a compliment to the Youth Organisation for Vocational Education, the JOB. The JOB is the driving force behind this bill to combat the abuses of admission to MBO. It is young people who take on board for those who do not have the opportunity to be admitted to vocational training, an MBO training. You are young and you know what you want to learn, namely a real job as a car mechanic, child leader or hairdresser, but your dream is already brutally disturbed before you even step into an MBO school. The cabinet and the MBO schools have the mouths of offering opportunities, but learning a real profession becomes a big hurdle for these young people so prematurely. You do not enter school and the rejections of MBO schools are often contained in beautiful prose, but sometimes they are also hardcore. The letter from the JOB showed the examples: "Too old. You need too much care as a student, so we can't hire you." "Your IQ is too high for this education. So the danger of boredom is imminent." "You're completely incapable of this training." "You show too many emotions to be able to follow this training." "Your initial training is too high to be able to take this MBO training." As far as the SP is concerned, this cannot be done, because this way it is just chaos. It is high time that the MBO's admission policy was put in place. The bill we are discussing today is therefore urgently needed with regard to the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u3	I hear Mrs Siderius mention these examples, but I understand that they are only one hundred or two hundred cases a year. It's not about so many cases. The cases that are now mentioned are of course all annoying and sometimes even dramatic for those students, but it is only one side of the story. I've worked in the MBO for a long time, and I've told stories like this. We didn't tell those stories for nothing either, because the experience taught that students with too high an IQ at a certain level were indeed bored. Students with a certain psychological or physical condition are indeed sometimes not suitable for doing a particular training. What exactly is the problem? I don't think it's good to go very deeply into those stories and take the school side with us. Schools give advice in a very professional way. Why are you so suspicious of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u4	I shall begin with the first point that Mr Beertema raised, the numbers. There's a lot of discussion about that. Are there indeed only a hundred, as the MBO Council says? Or are there many more, as the JOB says? In previous debates, I asked the Minister to investigate the number of students actually rejected by MBO schools. The minister didn't want that. The SP very much wants it to do so, and that is why I will make another proposal today. The SP believes that we should give every prospective student the opportunity to do a certain degree programme. That is what we are constantly discussing in Parliament, for example yesterday in the debate on the education report. The inspection also says that there are fewer and fewer opportunities for children to obtain training. The SP wants to give children those opportunities, because we think it is right to motivate young people to get what is in them. The SP really cannot support saying in advance: you have a limitation and therefore you should not take this training.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u5	The interruptions must be brief and the response to them must be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u6	I do not agree with that at all. My next question to Mrs Siderius would be: do you not think that you are very deeply interfering with a generic law for a certain number of clear cases? That generic law intervenes very deeply in the professional actions of teachers. That intake is one of the cores of a teacher's existence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u7	I don't know what's wrong with a student admission. We're just gonna get together now that if someone has a VMBO degree, he can just be admitted to the MBO. That's great. If you're a student or an aspiring student, you just have a right. Then you can't just be rejected for all kinds of vague reasons, including the reasons I just mentioned: too much care, too smart or too stupid for this education. If you have that VMBO degree, you can just go to the MBO. I really like it when we can arrange that here today. I wanted to say that the SP supports the fixed registration date and the right of admission in this bill. We believe that this is a real step forward. However, the SP also has some wishes. The first concerns the registration of that rejection. It is unclear exactly how many students are rejected and what the reasons for rejection are. Mbo schools don't have to register that. There is a lot of discussion, among other things between the MBO Council and the JOB, about these rejection problems and their size. That needs to be clarified as far as we are concerned. Registering rejections means that MBO schools can no longer easily reject students. Opaque grounds for rejection make it very difficult for students but also for their parents to file a complaint to challenge this rejection. This does not prevent grounds for rejection such as "too old" or "we cannot support your limitation." The MBO Council reacted enthusiastically to this last week in the hearing on this bill. The MBO Council is interested in this. I would like to hear today whether the Minister is prepared to oblige MBO schools to register this. The SP Group has prepared a proposal, a motion for a resolution. The SP also considers it important that students can receive a reasoned rejection, either on paper or by e-mail. With that rejection in hand, they can then go to a complaint committee to challenge the rejection if necessary. With a mandatory rejection letter, MBO schools must clearly describe why a student is rejected. Is the Minister prepared to work on this? Parent involvement is very important in the choice of study. We have received complaints from parents and young people over the age of 18, with parents being excluded by the MBO school. An 18-year-old must independently take an intake for a new MBO training and with the pedagogical consultancy in connection with the appropriate education for any additional support at school. Parents are very much welcome in this, but some schools say: no, that parent should not be at that intake. This means that young people with disabilities have to go to that intake alone. Sometimes these young people have not yet accepted their own restrictions. As a result, these young people do not clearly indicate what guidance and support is needed during the training in order to successfully obtain a diploma. I would like to know today from the Minister whether this is the normal procedure. Does the Minister consider it desirable that parents should be sidelined? Does she see opportunities to discuss with the MBO schools that parents are involved in the choice of study and in the intake interview, especially of young people with disabilities who need additional support? According to the SP, education is not a diploma machine to hunt students through the MBO for a job in the labour market. We therefore still abhor the so-called "cascade cost" whereby schools get less money when a student does longer about the study. In our view, education must be an instrument for general and broad development. The SP is not really a warm supporter of a maximum number of training places for certain professions. We therefore do not support the rejection of students because they cannot be accepted from the point of view of training capacity or labour market prospects. Every student must have the opportunity to be trained into a profession, even if the labour market offers less perspective. We would like to see a clear exchange of opportunities for work with the student and, where appropriate, with the parents, if you start this programme and if you successfully complete it. The final choice should really lie with the student as far as the SP is concerned. Does the Minister see any possibility of restricting this selection at the gate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mrs Siderius is always talking about vulnerable students who need to be taken on board, but now it almost seems as if she is some sort of D66 student who assumes that these students can handle anything and know for themselves whether there is a labour market perspective. After all, we have these training courses to put these young people in a good position on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u9	Before I become a member of D66 we will be a little further, so at least Mr Rog doesn't have to worry about that. We have so-called macro-efficiency in the MBO. The Ministry of Education examines which courses are admitted to vocational education and the prospects for the labour market. As far as we are concerned, that should be enough. If we allow a certain education, then you should give everyone the opportunity to take that training. We're not saying there's no need for conversation. We are in favour of saying to a student: you want to take this programme and you have a passion for it, fine, but you do realize that it might be a little more difficult to find a job in this field. Those opportunities and those risks must be clearly discussed with the student.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u10	It's two-and-a-half. Or the SP chooses a five-year plan and the government records all of it. That would provide clarity, but the question is whether the government is the appropriate party for that. The SP and the CDA think differently about that. Or you leave that to the institutions, but then it is also up to those institutions to say at some point with knowledge of the regional labour market: it is sluss and this student is no longer there? Then it is not up to the student to determine that there is a labour market perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u11	Mr Rog knows as well as I do that the Ministry of Education does not say from behind the office that one training does have a labour market perspective and the other does not. This is, of course, an interplay between MBO training and business. The Ministry must allow such training, but ultimately, in the regions, the MBO institutions and the regional business community together consider whether it is viable. After that, we need to have that conversation with that student. In the end, it's up to the student to make that choice. We are not the party that says to students: you should go to this training, because there will soon be work in it, and that is all good for economic growth. We think that education is also meant to allow people to develop widely...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u12	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u13	Okay, Mr. Chairman. Too bad, I was just as good in my story. In the eyes of the SP, the lottery tickets for training should not be preferred. If that happens, it must be fair and just. The Minister wants to exclude prospective students who register for MBO training after 1 April from drawing lots or put them at a disadvantage. That creates unequal opportunities for admission. Did we not want to speed up equal opportunities in education? Students who apply after 1 April are thus disadvantaged. These are often the side-intromers, but also the students who later make a choice of study. We want to treat these students equally, just like the students who apply before 1 April. We want this injustice to be removed from the law. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. I come to the binding negative study opinion. The idea of the proposal before us is that the gap between VMBO and MBO is being reduced. 2,000 students do not arrive at the MBO after VMBO. Another 6,000 students quit in the first year of MBO training. The Minister now wants to introduce a binding negative study advice for students with a lack of study claims. This basically gives the MBO school the right to dismiss students themselves. But wasn't it the intention of this law to keep these students in school instead of sending them away? How does this relate to each other? How does this also relate to the qualification requirement, whereby students have to obtain at least an MBO-2 level training? Isn't that contrary to each other? Is the binding negative study opinion not an appropriate way of circumventing the right of admission that we have in this proposal? Schools will have to hire students who qualify for pre-training, but can send a student home after four months under the guise of poor results. Isn't this some kind of restraining order? It is quite possible that external factors affect a student's study results. If your parents get divorced, it could have quite an impact. This may result in a student being less focused on his schoolwork. Why shouldn't a student try again the following year to successfully complete the programme? And how does the Minister prevent arbitrariness? In the MBO we don't know any credits. When will the results be sufficient or insufficient? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. The introduction of the binding negative study advice is a very bad idea. D66, together with the SP and GroenLinks, tabled an amendment on this subject. The importance of career orientation in VMBO is frequently mentioned in the legislative proposal. The SP fully agrees that this is important. We have tabled an amendment on this at the time of the VMBO Act. With this we want to include that career file in the Mavo direction, the direction vmbo-tl. There was a majority before that. In my view, the Minister put this into a regulation on 1 June and would also discuss it with the field of education. What are the results of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u14	I would, of course, like to offer Mrs Siderius a trial membership. Especially in view of the text she has just spoken, I am giving her good opportunities. Maybe she'll be able to be MPs for our beautiful party someday. We're gonna see. Mr. Chairman. Today, there is a legislative proposal which lays down the right of admission for MBO. At the moment, when you sign up for an MBO programme as a student, all kinds of barriers are raised. So it is good that we are now introducing a clear right of admission. It is a proposal that D66 can fully support. I would also like to join in congratulating the JOB initiatives in this area. However, my group still has some concerns as to whether all the institutions will pass this new right of admission on to potential students. After all, even now students may deviate from an advice given by institutions, but that is not always clear to students. Many of these procedures give the impression of being selection procedures against which no defence is possible. Who is going to ensure that MBO institutions also comply with the right of admission, not just with regard to the letter? Institutions must also ensure that students are aware of their rights so that they can enforce this right. Moreover, MBO institutions do not opt for admission procedures and selections because they like it so much, but because there are large financial risks to offering opportunities. These are perverse incentives that allow vulnerable pupils to pile up and limit the flow. This can lead to a high percentage of students walking around as an MBO institution for which you receive little or no remuneration from the government. The municipality of Rotterdam has recently denounced this problem. It is a fundamental question which is at the origin of the admission problem. This bill does not remove the core of the problem. Does the Minister share this analysis and what will she do if she shares that analysis? D66 is therefore positive about the right of admission, but we still have reservations on two points of this legislative proposal. First of all, the binding study opinion. It can happen, of course, that a student is not in his place or may not be doing his best. As far as we're concerned, that's a reason for the institution to start talking to that student. Does he have a problem with the level? Should he get used to the new education, to the other way of studying? Does the student need extra help or time? Or is the student better placed in another programme? What could that be? That is what a study opinion should be, a final piece of extensive guidance by an institution. But higher education shows what is often the practice now: an arbitrary standard for the number of credits you have to obtain. They're not looking at the student, they're looking at the norm. So it's not about getting the student in the right place, it's about getting as much money as possible and minimising risks. Yesterday, in the debate on the education report, we talked about opportunities for children, for young people. This binding study advice prevents opportunities. That's why D66 wants to delete this from the bill. We have tabled an amendment to this effect together with the SP and GroenLinks. A second objection has been raised by my group with a national registration date of 1 April for the MBO. Higher education already has such a notification date, but it is 1 May. It seems to me that it is much clearer to apply the same national registration date for the entire tertiary education system. Moreover, I do not share the Minister's reasons for choosing 1 April. Officially, MBO training starts on 1 August and HBO and WO training starts on 1 September, but in practice this difference is significantly less. The subjects on the roc's will not start until September and in higher education too, institutional and training introductions often start in August. The Minister also writes that habo- and vwo-students are longer in secondary school than vmbo-students. That is also a point of discussion in the future, but good. The VMBO students are therefore less long in school before they have to make a choice. The HAVO and VWO students, their parents and the school have more time to prepare themselves for this. In addition, these students are older. Isn't that exactly the reason for putting the registration date for VMBO students a month later? Then they can prepare for a month longer and are also a month older. In short, the Minister's reasoning on this point is a bit crooked. For the sake of national clarity and for the purposes of informing on notifications, our group seems to have one more clear notification date. Information on this is then more uniform and appropriate to organise. That is why we have also tabled an amendment on this point which sets the date of notification on 1 May. It's nice to have the right of admission there, but don't move that barrier to selection right after the gate, but really remove it, so delete the binding study advice and give these students real opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr. Chairman. Every child in the Netherlands is entitled to good education. That's what we're agreeing on today, I think. And no one wants to divide in education. We also agree on this very quickly. A great deal has been said about this yesterday in the WHO on the annual report. I also want as many students as possible to have the opportunity to follow the training they want to take and which offers prospects for a job. However, these two things do not always go together, we must realize. We must also be honest in this, including with students. Not everyone who wants to can study sports and event management, or animal management. There are simply more students interested in sport and animals than there are jobs. I also want every student to be in the classroom with motivated fellow students, a class in which not a small group, which really doesn't want to go to school or can't handle the level, causes the other half of the class to be bored or annoyed. Those students are actually only there because they had the right to be admitted. Right of admission in the MBO? In principle, I say yes, because every student deserves a chance to prove himself. However, pupils' rights must be balanced with the opportunities in the labour market and also with the obligations for pupils to make serious work of their training. I cannot escape the impression that many pupils are now mainly concerned with rights. I have spoken to teachers who say that students who are totally unmotivated say to them: master, you will not send me away, because then I will be an early school leavers and the school will be fined. Those aren't the students I'd call vulnerable. I call those students annoying. They may be, because they are teenagers and they still have to learn that rights include duties. Right of admission? So, provided we also dare to make demands on the student. You didn't sign up on time? Then the VVD still allows you to be admitted on a rock, but you can no longer rely on the right of admission. That right is a duty to register in good time. Not participating in the compulsory intake or study choice activity required for your training? Then you may still be admitted from the VVD on a rock, but you cannot rely on the right of admission, because that right belongs to the duty to participate in an intake. You actually just signed up to receive student funding and an I.V. card and never showed up at school again? For you, the right of admission will expire anyway, because student funding and an O.V. card are meant to enable you to go to school, not as an alternative to a benefit. Rights belong to duties, and it is best to make this clear to students as soon as possible. With this you prepare them better for the future than by declaring them vulnerable, because that might become a self-fulfilling prophecy. We must dare to distinguish between those who deserve support and those who need a kick in the ass. I think teachers can make a pretty good assessment of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u16	My neck hairs are standing up proudly, I can tell you, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u17	Then that goal has already been achieved!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u18	Yeah, that's great, if that's your goal in parliament. My goal is to organise good vocational education. You started your contribution on behalf of the VVD with: no one wants to divide education; we all want everyone to have equal opportunities. What does the VVD do next? It presents proposals that lead to unequal opportunities for prospective students. Take the right of admission. If you sign up for April 1st, you'll have a free pass. If you then sign up, it will depend on the MBO setting itself. How does that relate to each other? You say that you do not want a division, but then you put certain students who are a little later with their choice of study, at a considerable disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u19	There's been a lot of dichotomy around here lately. There are different kinds of dichotomy. If the division is motivated versus unmotivated students, there will be a difference. Any child who wants to start an education must have that opportunity. That is why I am in principle in favour of a right of admission. That is what I am telling you very clearly. I, too, have had the opportunity to work up through education, so that I stand here today, and that is worth a lot to me. However, we must also be honest. In the MBO, not every student is by definition vulnerable. There are also students who are unmotivated. Of course, we should try to motivate those students, but also in the VMBO you can expect students to just sign up in time if they have followed a study choice activity. If you didn't do that for a good reason and you make that reason known to the MBO, then I'm still gonna let you in. Only, I won't allow you to invoke the right to be admitted. In this way you also get all kinds of unmotivated people in the classroom who really don't want to go to the MBO at all. This really reduces the level in the classroom and the level of education given to the other students who are motivated. That division between people in the classroom who do want to and people in the classroom who don't want to be appointed as far as I'm concerned. Mrs. Siderius is running away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u20	I would like a brief answer, Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u21	The VVD acts as if every MBO student who signs up after April 1st is unmotivated. Of course, that's not true at all. Many students do not know on 1 April what study choice they want to make and are therefore not in time for that registration date. They are put right here as "unmotivated" and as "students who harden the place in the classroom." Indeed, in the written input, the VVD Group has pointed out that these are students who harden things up and prevent good teaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u22	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u23	This is an unequal treatment. I think that is really contrary to our Constitution. The VVD should consider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u24	Those are very harsh words from Mrs Siderius. I certainly don't recognize myself in that. Only 34% of students in the MBO feel challenged. I'm really worried about those numbers. I'm beginning to find the students in such a class who do want to and who just want to have good education, vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u25	I wonder which problem Mrs Lucas wants to solve. Of course, you've motivated a school, a little less motivated and unmotivated students. That's what's happening now. That has nothing to do with a right of admission, unless Mrs Lucas would consider that students who make use of the right of admission would suddenly be less motivated. I don't see that causal link. Could Mrs Lucas explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u26	As I have indicated, I want to ensure that there is a better balance between the rights and the obligations of the pupils. I think it is important that anyone who wants to start a study can do so even if he or she has the right pre-training and there is a labour market perspective. I do not think it is right that mbos should be able to refuse unmotivated students, because they are funded institutions and they should simply be teaching. In principle, I am in favour of a right of admission. I shall come back to that in a moment, but I do not think that this legislative proposal is properly regulated and I certainly do not think that the rights and duties are in balance. That's what I'm trying to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u27	That's a very theoretical story. You can, of course, see if a bill on paper will balance all rights and obligations, but my question was: what problem do you want to solve? Is there such a problem? And if so, does it have any relationship with the right of admission that we want to regulate here for very different reasons? That is precisely because of the unmotivated or poorly motivated rejection. It is common for a student who is not admitted to one school to another school to be a well-motivated student. There's no such connection. Mrs Lucas really wants to solve a non-existent problem by the wrong means. The MBO itself is perfectly capable of guiding those students with good guidance and good advice either to the finish line or to the exit and that is already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u28	The interruptions must also be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u29	I think that Mr Grashoff and I are more in agreement with each other than we might have thought in advance, because I too wonder whether this proposal on the right of admission is the solution and whether the problem is indeed that big. I, too, have that question, but I propose that at least the rights and duties should be more balanced. Back to the bill. That raises a lot of questions at the VVD. As Mr Grashoff said, the first question is indeed whether this bill is really necessary. Were we not able to solve the problem of 100 to 200 pupils, which is 0.1% of the number of students who may be wrongly refused, with much more transparency about the criteria used and, for example, additional possibilities for objection and appeal? How hard are the figures on which the Minister bases this whole bill? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The Minister says that the main purpose of this bill is to get the group that disappears between VMBO and MBO to school. However, this can be done much better by making a real job of career guidance in VMBO or, for example, by providing more bbl-spots, so that students who doubt whether they want to continue learning or work can opt for a combination of work and learning. These are better measures than these administrative proposals on a date of registration, the right to a conversation and then a right to admission. These are mainly paper rights instead of really good career advice or a practical learning place, things that the students can really do with. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Both the MBO Council and the MBO lecturers, who are actually required to implement this bill, have serious objections to this bill. The Minister, but perhaps also Mr Van Meenen, should be concerned about this, should he not? The MBO Council and the MBO teachers fear a huge bureaucracy and think that this bill might even be counterproductive for the group that the minister is trying to help. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I regret that we had to deal with this bill under high time pressure, so that we have not been able to obtain advice from Actal on the administrative burden for the schools that are going to bring this bill. I assume Mr Rog will come back to that later. The VVD is in principle for an admission right in the MBO. If you have the right pre-training, if there is a labour market perspective and if you are motivated, you should not be refused by an institution that is paid to provide you with good education. But that doesn't mean we're in favour of this bill. As has already been said, we do not find rights and obligations in balance. Moreover, we find it strange that, when there are limited training places, happiness determines whether you are admitted instead of the chance that you will successfully complete the course, as fortunately happens in higher education. On the contrary, I would like to give vulnerable young people the opportunity to escape their sometimes unfavourable situation by giving them a very motivated explanation of why they should be admitted to training with a limited number of places. I would like to hear from the Minister why not the chance of success but happiness, lottery, was chosen as a criterion, and why there is a deviation from the situation in higher education. The VVD has tabled four amendments: three in order to balance rights and duties and thus protect the really vulnerable pupils from a class full of unmotivated fellow students, and one in order to replace the draw with decentralised selection based on motivation and suitability for training. We are opposed to Mr Van Meenen's amendment aimed at removing the binding study opinion from the law. In fact, this creates an unbiased right of residence in the MBO. We think this is irresponsible. You cannot oblige schools to admit everyone without ever being able to say goodbye to a student, even though no study progress has been made and funding has stopped. The MBO thus becomes a kind of youth base instead of a school. If this amendment is adopted, we will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u30	Well, Mr. Chairman, where do I start?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u31	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u32	Sometimes you know the right way to the opposite, I'm just saying. I really cannot understand why a liberal, who my colleague believes to be, can say that if this law is introduced, a single motivated pupil will end up in classes full of unmotivated pupils and that an unbiased right will lead to large numbers of pupils without any progress in study... et cetera. I now address Mrs Lucas as a liberal. You're assuming that people can make that choice themselves and that people feel responsible for their behavior? You're not going to introduce all kinds of instruments in advance, the value of which hasn't been proven, not even in higher education, to punish behavior that you don't like?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u33	I'm a real liberal, but I'm also a realist. I also see what's happening at those MBO schools. We see that only 34% of the students feel challenged. We hear from teachers that there are really students who rely mainly on all their rights but do not contribute to a positive learning environment in the classroom. I do trust that the professional in that school will be able to distinguish in an intake interview which students do indeed deserve support because they come from a difficult home situation and, of course, are entitled to good education. I expect the teachers to be able to take those students out and provide them with the support they need. I also want those teachers, those professionals, to have something in their hands. I fear that the students who are really unmotivated and you can see coming from miles away that they are not going to make it a success, perhaps because they don't want to make it a success because they just sit there because they have to sit somewhere, are going to ruin it for the big group. The professional must be trusted in that judgment. Mr Van Meenen takes that judgment away from them. Everyone is admitted and the last leftover that allows the professional to say that he really does not see any study progress is taken out of this law by Mr Van Meenen. The right of residence will then arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u34	It is true; the binding study opinion is not here either. This is now being introduced as a kind of counterpart to something that Mrs Lucas believes has only meaning for a very marginal group. We give people a huge instrument to do that, while 34% of students in the MBO are motivated and challenged. Is that the problem for those students, or should we perhaps invest more in teachers and give them more space to challenge their education rather than sit on the other side and show students who are not challenged the door?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u35	Short response, Mrs. Lucas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u36	Mr Van Meenen is all about it. The teachers are also very critical of this bill. They can now give the advice on the basis of the intake: you cannot start this training. If the criteria are unclear, then we need to clarify them. If objections and appeals are needed, then we must settle them. We are now opting for a right of admission for everyone to be admitted, and this includes something, namely a binding study advice if there is no progress at all. If Mr Van Meenen tears that out of the law, he will force me to vote against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u37	Mr. Chairman. This is a legal process and it is now said that the largest party in Parliament will vote against this law because of an amendment I have proposed. I think it would be a good idea to discuss this further. Will you allow it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u38	Yeah, but not endless. You may interrupt again, but not endlessly. If the interruptions are short and the answers are short, I would like to give all the room for debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u39	I understand, Mr. Chairman. One more time, because this is a big deal. Apparently, with this amendment, we are causing the VVD to vote against. Apparently, the binding study advice for the VVD outweighs the right of admission that Mrs Lucas says is very much in favour of. Can I put it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u40	I said that in drafting the right of admission in this legislative proposal the rights and obligations are not in balance. Four amendments have been tabled on behalf of my group. If Mr Van Meenen's amendment is adopted, we will be voting against the legislative proposal anyway, because we believe that the MBO will then be burdened with a major problem. It can then no longer remove students who do not make sufficient progress and may never appear, while funding has already ceased. This is at the expense of students who do want to do so, at the expense of the quality of education for an entire class. I'm not gonna take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u41	I have a factual question for Mrs Lucas about the VVD amendment. She wants to break the rights of MBO students. How many students who now have an I.V. card and study funding never show up? How big is the group that does not want to make the training successful? How many students is that, Mrs Lucas?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u42	We do not have these figures and we do not know how many students are wrongly refused. This bill is based on a feeling and a JOB monitor that indeed gives examples. Mr Beertema has already said that we do not know the other side. We do not know why these students were refused. This summer a study will be carried out on the number of students who have only registered for study funding and an O/V year card. Those sounds are already from schools. I understand that, too. Young people don't just get benefits anymore. Sometimes young people are advised to enrol in an MBO course because they receive a study grant and an O.V. year card. They are supposed to do so, but sometimes they do not. Sometimes they don't show up. From the summer we know how many there are. I think that you can deprive students who do so and who actually abuse student funding and see it as a form of income, in the following year, of the right of admission. I believe that a right includes duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u43	Mrs Lucas makes a big statement about large groups of students who do not want to go through the mbo and who ask for an annual card and study funding to provide themselves with an income. I think it's pretty good if you can make a living on your college funding. If Mrs Lucas does not deliver butter to the fish by saying how big that group is and has not done any research on it herself, she is standing here with a very weak story. The only thing she wants to do is to take away rights and those who stifle things are her words, because I think there's something completely different going on just refuse. With these students, however, you should go into conversation to find out how they can be motivated and what is actually going on. External factors often also play a role. I already gave the example of the home situation. It can have a real impact on education. Mrs Lucas is completely ignorant of that. All she's doing is refusing and getting the good students into the MBO and getting a diploma. I'll let the rest of you figure it out at home. I really think it's a very, very, very skinny VVD vision. I think it's really, well, sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u44	I don't recognize myself in this story at all. I'm assuming the teacher's professionalism. They conduct intake interviews with students. I trust they will take account of the home situation. I'm assuming that the teachers are professionals who can assess which child really needs support. Mrs Siderius does not seem to have that confidence in the teachers. She thinks that it is all grade fetishists who simply send everyone away and that we therefore need to re-establish a right of admission, when we do not even know exactly how big the group is that is being unjustly sent home. This whole bill is based on the feeling that perhaps 100 to 200 pupils are wrongly refused a year. If that is the case and students are wrongly refused, then we certainly need to do something about it. I only think that the cure is worse than the disease if we also get the binding study advice out of it. That's what this is about. Mrs Siderius can put all kinds of words in my mouth and pretend that I am not in the best interests of education. I do, but I have the best interests with all the students in the classroom, and then rights and duties should be in balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mrs. Siderius, I thought it was a personal fact. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u46	Teachers would be grade fetishists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u47	Mrs Siderius puts all kinds of words in my mouth. This is not a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u48	No, it was about the previous remark. At least that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u49	Mrs Lucas says: Mrs Siderius thinks teachers are all grade fetishists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u50	Apparently, Mrs Siderius has no confidence in the teachers. That's what she says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u51	Mrs Siderius has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u52	The SP has a lot of confidence in the teachers. Teachers must also have room for good conversations. Unfortunately, we are also regularly informed that MBO schools say "you are too old for this education," "you have a limitation," "you are too old, so you cannot do this" and "your IQ is too high for this education and there is therefore danger of boredom." Those aren't grounds for rejection, are they? Yeah, the SP proposed to register that. I couldn't get my hands on that in this Parliament. I'm very sorry about that. We would then know exactly where the problem lies. Let us be honest: the VVD is tabling all kinds of amendments to remove all kinds of students' rights. It's really, well, sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u53	Mr. Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u54	Do I get a chance to respond to this, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u55	You may respond to this. You did not say anything, so I wanted to give the floor to Mr Grashoff. You may respond, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u56	I was processing what Mrs Siderius had poured out on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u57	Okay, I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u58	I have a lot of faith in the teachers. I don't think students should be wrongly denied. I therefore welcome the fact that we are examining the grounds on which pupils are refused and that the possibility of appeal and objection is strengthened. That's all I mentioned in my story. What I don't want is that the right of admission is going to mean that all kinds of people must be admitted to the MBO who can't then be removed by the professionals, namely the teachers. They will have problems, because they will then have to teach a class in which students who may not be in it will also be in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u59	The link between the adoption of this bill and the amendment on the binding study opinion is motivated, among other things, by sounds from the field. We received a letter and held a hearing, in which we spoke with the Professional Association of Teachers MBO (BVMBO). Her main criticism of this bill is the binding study advice. It does not want this, because a binding study advice can be at the expense of the MBO who will start later, increases the workload for teachers and leads to a different dynamic in the relationship between the student and the training team. She doesn't want this. If Mrs Lucas wants to make that fair, she should also come to the conclusion that we can improve the legislative proposal by adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u60	The same teachers also wonder whether this legislative proposal is necessary in this way. That is the first question they are asking. Mr Grashoff ignores that too easily. They then argue that mandatory binding study advice can create a great deal of bureaucracy for all pupils. I think we should take that concern seriously. It would be good to first have an Actal opinion on the regulatory burden this legislative proposal brings. Mr Van Meenen's amendment completely removes the binding study opinion, not only a mandatory binding study opinion for all pupils, but also the possibility of a binding study opinion in special cases. I find this irresponsible, because it also means that students who do not make any progress can no longer be expelled or that they must be allowed back in the following year. I think that's really unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u61	I asked that question very explicitly in the hearing: would the bill improve on it if we deleted the binding study advice? The answer to that was clip-and-ready: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u62	Because they may not have that rule pressure anymore, but that doesn't make this bill balanced. It seems that Mr Grashoff did not find that interesting, but that was also said by the teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u63	After this intense discussion, I have a question. I remember that in the round table the BVMBO was not necessarily in favour of the right of admission, but that does not mean that all teachers are opposed, as Mrs Lucas said. As I recall, the AOb, which also stands for teachers, has said that it is very much in favour of a right of admission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u64	That's right. I mean to say that the MBO Council and the MBO teachers, united in the BVMBO, are opposed. They wonder if this bill is necessary. Are we not in the process of shooting a cannon at a mosquito, when we could have solved that much better in another way, both for the students and for the teachers? I think that's a fair question. I also think that the Minister should give a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u65	You agree with me that the AOb is on the other side, so there are two possible explanations? On the one hand, the BVMBO says it is against an admission right, but on the other hand there is the AOb, with 85,000 members, which is for an admission right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u66	Yeah, that's right. We hear everyone saying that we want to give every student a good chance. That's what I want. To the question of whether this bill is the correct answer to that question, I have so far said: no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u67	I am trying to get the facts straight, because Mrs Lucas does cherrypicking when quoting, and that is incorrect. The BVMBO says in its response that it is not necessarily for an admission right, but for the right of admission. That's a marginal difference. She also says that she is opposed to a binding study opinion. Mrs Lucas says that teachers very much want a binding study advice, but the professional association does not seem to want that. What's the deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u68	I don't do cherrypicking. The professional association has said that it is opposed to the binding study advice, because it involves a great deal of bureaucracy and because it is a compulsory binding study advice for all pupils. She thinks that is very unnecessary, which brings in a lot of extra hassle. All pupils must then be indicated whether or not they can pass the following year. What you do want is that at some point you can say goodbye to students who really aren't making any progress or who are really unsuitable. After all, you're gonna let them all in. Now they do that screening at the front, through the intake interviews, and sometimes they advise someone to just really not start the training. It's gonna be a lot harder. If you take away that possibility, you're giving schools a very difficult assignment. That's what the MBO Council's letter says. I would advise Mr Van Meenen to read that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u69	I thank Mrs Lucas for that advice. The suggestions she makes here are simply not correct. Of course, this advice at the front can continue without any delay. The only thing this law regulates is that it is really an advice, and not like a lot of institutions, a kind of sham selection where a lot of students are put on the trail that they just can't get in. I also said it at the hearing: look at how this is done in MBO schools. It just says, "Selection procedure, test this, test that." All that can go on, but the student decides eventually. And that's the law that's being taken care of here. So no increase in administrative burdens!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u70	That is disappointing to me from Mr Van Meenen, because he is saying again, in my opinion, that a lot of students are wrongly put on the wrong track. Where does he get those numbers? It's about 100 students a year. That's 0.1%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u71	This is really a tip of the iceberg, because there are a lot of students who are discouraged in this procedure to follow the training of their dreams. Believe me! Well, then we're gonna investigate that together. That's the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u72	That's gonna stay the same when it's a consult, isn't it? They're already being discouraged, aren't they? The point is that teachers can now say to someone at the front: you are really unsuitable for this training; this is not going to be him. I think they should do this very little and have clear criteria for that. I also think that they should be very transparent about this. They need to clearly explain why they did that. I agree with Mr Van Meenen. Mr Van Meenen wants to deprive teachers of that opportunity at the front. It'll be an advice and they'll have to let that student in, even if those teachers think it's not gonna work out. However, Mr Van Meenen also wants to deprive teachers of the opportunity to give a binding study advice to that student at some point, because it did not work out. The teacher's professionalism turned out to be great. He's made a pretty good assessment of that. Then Mr Van Meenen puts these teachers in an impossible position. How are they supposed to teach that class?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u73	Mr van Meenen, I would like to conclude on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u74	The roles are now reversed, because now a question is being asked to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u75	I heard. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u76	I am not putting teachers in an impossible position at all, I put them in the position that they are very aware that a student has the right to admission, even if that advice, however substantiated, is negative. So that's advice in front of the gate. This bill regulates that right for that student and that it also becomes crystal clear, contrary to what is currently the case. After that, the situation must arise that this school also takes responsibility for that student. The binding study advice is a very easy way-out for a student who, for example, ignored that advice on the front. The institution must continue to feel responsibility for the student.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u77	So I also assume that this institution is in such a way that it feels a responsibility for students, that it does not just send all kinds of people away. I also find it very strange that Mr Van Meenen has so little confidence in the schools and teachers. I assume that people who work in funded education do so, because they want to help as many students as possible. I assume they're not out to send away as many students as possible as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u78	Thank you. I'm sorry, Mr van Meenen, but I'm not giving you any more opportunity to interrupt Mrs Lucas. I call Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u79	Mr. Chairman. The CDA, of course, also attaches great importance to well-accessible education and a good transition between the types of education. This is, of course, all the more true for pupils who are subject to compulsory schooling, and still the majority of those who are involved in secondary vocational education. In the case of new legislation, we are also looking at the effectiveness of this legislation and its proportionality. We must be convinced that the solutions proposed really solve the problems. We still have a few questions about that. We would like the Minister to look again at why it is not possible to reach binding agreements with the MBO institutions. Why does it consider this legislation to be a solution and to what extent does it increase the administrative burden? I would add the question as to whether she is prepared to allow Actal to conduct a brief examination of the administrative burden associated with this bill. If she makes that request, we will save time, otherwise the request will have to be made through the Chamber. That takes extra time and that is, of course, a shame. The CDA sees it as a major problem that 2,000 young people are out of work every year when they switch to MBO training, the so-called summer leak. Mr President, I see that Mrs Siderius wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u80	I see Mrs Siderius as well, but I thought it was a good idea to let you finish your block first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u81	I still have a lot of things, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u82	Oh well, then I give Mrs Siderius the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u83	Mr Rog went on very quickly after his question about the research that the CDA wants Actal to do. If we don't have that Actal investigation, is the CDA going to vote against the bill? I believe that was the case yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u84	I think we had a procedural meeting. It took a while before the left-hand section of the Chamber was prepared to allow a request for information from an organisation which was set up to deal with the administrative burden. It took a while before those parties too wanted to put that organisation to work. I now understand that at least there is a majority in the Chamber for this proposal. So if the Minister does not accept my request, I can still do it by that route. I learned from our Prime Minister that I have nothing to worry about and that we just have to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u85	The Prime Minister often says things that shouldn't be taken over. My question was whether the CDA threatened to vote against the law if that Actal investigation didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u86	I think a lot of parties in this house have already formed their opinions on this law. Not the CDA! The CDA weighs and weaves and wants further information for this purpose. I just asked for that information. Oddly enough, Mr. Chairman, I also have a few other questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u87	Then you'll continue with that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u88	I will also take the answers to those questions into account. The proposal for an early registration date, precisely in order to prevent that summer leak, strongly supports the CDA. We also draw the Minister's attention to the motion adopted by me to make real progress on links for graduate VMBOs in the period after the exam and before they would start their MBO training. The aim is to prevent this leak and thus to prevent 2,000 young people from falling out every year. The registration date of 1 April leads to a lot of doubt and discussion among people in the MBO field. The Minister chooses 1 April, but I have seen an amendment by Mr Van Meenen passing over 1 May. The field is very divided and therefore I would like to hear again from the Minister why she chooses this registration date. I fully agree that the date of registration should be brought forward, but whether it should be 1 April or 1 May, my group is not yet clear. I would also like a more precise understanding of the negative consequences that a later registration date than 1 April or 1 May has for the upcoming student. I'd like to get an explanation from the Minister. This could make up for the choice between 1 April and 1 May, because 1 May is further away in time. Then the period in which you can experience negative consequences of not registering on time is thus less long. The CDA welcomes the fact that students are given the right to a study interview with this bill. This study choice discussion is not binding, but could it not be experienced in this way? What does such a study choice interview look like in practice? Why does the education agreement not become part of this conversation, so that the student is clear that he actually has a right of admission and so that he has a clear view of what is expected of him. In this context, I must say to Mrs Lucas that my group also considers the balance between rights and obligations to be very important. Some stakeholders argue that this bill would provide a solution for only 100 to 200 students who are not currently admitted to the MBO training they would like to take. The Minister suggests that it is a lot more students, for example because there is no learning workshop available for the potential MBO student, but what changes does this bill change to that practice? Does the right of admission in this law mean that students can no longer be refused or expelled from the training if there is no internship available? Does the Minister not see a risk that training and social partners will now consider all possible situations in the front, agree protocols on them and identify all possible deficiencies of all individual qualifications in order to prepare intakes and prospective students? The question is whether students will get along if they are admitted, build a debt and then be expelled, for example because there is no internship available. And, according to the Minister, does the right of admission also mean that the student is given the right to receive good education? The CDA welcomes the increasing attention paid to career orientation and guidance, especially in vocational education. This is of great importance both in the VMBO and in the MBO. We also support the Minister's wish to have a study progress report in the first year of MBO training. Can the Minister explain again why this had to be laid down by law? Do I understand that the study progress interview does not necessarily have to be held after four months, but can also be held later in the first year? Does the binding study advice not provide further opportunities for students to stop their training in the meantime? Isn't there already the possibility of allowing students to end their training in the meantime or to remove them? Does this not make the legal status of students worse rather than better? Mrs Siderius rightly pointed that out earlier. Why should this binding study advice be laid down by law? Could there also be another clear moment in the progress of the study on which agreements are made and on which training is possible to draw a line? These were my questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u89	I would like to put a more fundamental question to Mr Rog. Does he agree with me that having an appropriate diploma as a matter of principle gives access to further education and that, logically, there should simply be such a right of admission?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u90	I am in favour of easy passage from one education to another, but say something about that: behavior can make a difference. It may also be that in certain training courses you have to have certain qualities. I think we should pay attention to that. In the base there should be a normal flow right from the vmbo to the mbo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u91	That's the answer I can get out of my way. I assume that Mr Rog agrees with me that there are very special reasons which are technical or skill-technical in nature, need to be transparent and clear and clear to everyone in advance. For this to apply: equal monks, equal hoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u92	It seems to me desirable that this should be the situation as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u93	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the proposal on admission to secondary vocational education. Every student with the right education deserves an equal chance to prove himself in the MBO. The aim of this law is therefore to ensure that the transition to the MBO goes well, to strengthen the position of the student and to regulate a right of admission. On all these points, I shall go back to the rest of my speech. Vocational training must teach young people skills and knowledge, both professional skills and life skills. The choice of training and a school is an important moment. During the many work visits and discussions with young people in vocational education, and with parents, I increasingly hear that young people are refused for all kinds of unclear reasons. Mrs Siderius has already mentioned those unclear reasons. These range from "you are too highly trained for this training" and "you have a far too high IQ for this training" to "you don't quite fit in with the composition of this class." During the round table we got the wonderful example of a person who was refused because he didn't have some skills yet, which he would learn during the training. That's weird, because you're going to school to learn something. If you knew, you wouldn't have to go to school. This brings with it enormous confusion. Young people do not know where they stand, and that is undesirable. On the one hand, the JOB and the LAKS indicated in the recently organised round table here in the Chamber that they received many complaints and that this is just the tip of the iceberg. That is a bit exciting, because on the other hand, the MBO Council indicated that it was a very small number and that this bill shot a cannon at a mosquito. It is a question of how the MBO Council intends to combat the swarm of improper refusals. Is there an alternative that does justice to the young people who are now being refused? Is there any expectation that all the rocks will comply with the admission agreements now that the board of the MBO Council does not want legislation? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. My introduction doesn't make it that exciting anymore: the PvdA is for a broad right of admission that focuses on a transparent admission procedure. It is clear that the starting point is that any student applying for an MBO course at levels 2, 3 or 4 and meeting the appropriate training requirements has the right to be admitted to the training for which he or she has applied. Of course, someone who wants to study at an art academy must have something of an artistic talent. However, the adage should remain that appropriate pre-training should provide access to the corresponding follow-up training. Does the Minister share this view? I come to my most favorite subject: career guidance. That's incredibly important. It is good that LOB activities and study-choice activities are very prominent in the proposal. As the young people of the LAKS have just underlined: there must be a strong commitment to guidance, guidance and guidance. The best possible preparation already begins in secondary education. That goes well in many places. There are still signs, however, that there are still schools which find cooperation between vo and mbo difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u94	I've lost my touch for a while. But a right of admission for everyone, very broad. This is also warmly supported by the Labour Party. But, yes, there are also courses for which specific competences are required, such as art training; I myself think of something like sport. There too, however... What about that? Are all those students who are unable to work out, who do not have any talent for that, but who do have the right degree, to be admitted to sports training?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u95	No, I'm not. It is quite clear in the explanatory memorandum and all the other documents we have received and read. The adadium is that if you have the right education, so that VMBO diploma, you can go to the MBO. There are exceptions, for example dance training. If you can't dance, it's pretty hard to get in anyway. The documents already indicate that these exceptions are possible, so it is nothing new.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u96	When it comes to something cultural, all left-wing parties are convinced: no, those are the higher arts. But if you want to be level 4 secretary and have no language skills, isn't that like not being able to dance and still want to go to dance school? Or is that from another order? Is that more vulgar? That's not as high as you think? Explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u97	These aren't words I'd take in my mouth. High-ranking, low-level; it doesn't occur in my idiom. Anyway, I'll leave that to Mr. Beertema. If a young lady wants to attend administrative training and her language skills are not yet in order, then it is up to the school to guide her, because language can be learned. If you don't have a talent for dancing, you can try so hard, but you can't. Language is to some extent very good to learn. That's what a lot of people see. Again, I think it is good that we use the adadium: if you have a proper pre-school, you will be admitted to an education. There are certain courses where it can be said that it is not going to work, for example in fine arts training. I had come to the counseling. The career orientation is very important. VMBOs have to make a choice for further training at a relatively young age. That's kind of hard. It is therefore good to have a look at professional environments and working practices there. Initiatives such as VMBO On Stage play a very important role in this respect. In such a project, people make sure that young people are inspired to think about their future. That's my vision, too. Education must be motivated, education must be inspired, education must move young people forward. However, such initiatives do not relieve education from the responsibility of preparing pupils for the next step in their education career. Educational institutions should also contribute to the successful integration of training. What more can be done to provide this important support to enable these young people to make a careful choice of study? In the round table that has been mentioned many times here, the AOb said something that I found very interesting: a huge conceptual framework has emerged; can you not simplify the concept framework used? There is now a forest of concepts: intake, registration, registration, acceptance, admission, offer, education agreement, signing education agreement, rejecting, refusing, and so on. Teachers and students do not deserve a clear concept framework, as was the plea of the AOb. I really feel like that. What can the Minister do to meet that? The quality of the guidance is decisive for the further development of the student's choice and should therefore be good. Similarly, the quality of the study progress talks and the accompanying binding study advice. How is the guarantee of that quality arranged? How does the assessment take place and what is the procedure for reaching that binding study opinion? The binding study opinion is an important point, as all the speeches made by the various groups have shown. They vary a lot, from fiercely against the BSA to very much for the BSA. The BSA offers the MBO institutions the possibility of rejecting MBOs when it is clear that they are stuck. But if I understood correctly, the BSA is not there to block the way to other more appropriate MBO courses. The importance of young people must always be at the centre. As far as I am concerned, the emphasis should never be on sending away, but on guiding to another training. In this way, we will make sure that every effort is made to help young people choose appropriate training and ultimately to find a job that matches their talent and interest. However, there is also a lot of criticism of the BSA. So I say again that I am very open in this. I would therefore like the following questions to be answered by the Minister. What is the risk that a binding study advice will be at the expense of a later MBO? What is the risk that the binding study advice will lead to an increasing workload for the teacher? To what extent does the binding study advice also put pressure on the relationship between the student and the training team?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u98	Mrs Jadnansing rightly states that there are rather different views in the Chamber on the binding negative study opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u99	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u100	However, Mrs Jadnanancing is not judging. It does not say what the Labour Party's view is now. As a left-wing friend of the Labour Party, I can hardly imagine that the PvdA would be in favour of a binding negative study opinion. That, in fact, also leads to division. Students can be expelled from an MBO institution, while we want to offer opportunities. Now I know that Mrs Jadnansing will be in this Parliament for eight months, let's say. Is she going to give these students a stump in the stomach by keeping that study advice in the law, or is she going to pet them about the sphere and vote in favour of the amendment I tabled together with my colleagues Van Meenen and Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u101	Yeah, those two gentlemen are literally behind you right now, too, Mrs Siderius. It looks very nice. I will answer the question very openly and honestly. I see the advantages and I see the disadvantages of the binding study advice. That's why I said I'm open in it. I'm not crazy. I also heard during the round table that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about this. What is this binding study advice going to mean? That's why I asked my questions. I like to hear the answers. On the basis of those answers, I'm going to decide which way I'm going. I'm really open in it. On the one hand, I think the right of admission is very good. However, we must always strike the right balance between rights and obligations. I'm very upset about the orb, but I'm also very strict. One of my young people, whose mentor I am, sits in the back and knows it. So there are rights on the one hand, but on the other hand there are sometimes simply duties. In between, you must always find the right balance, in favor of the younger. That is why I would very much like to hear the Minister's answers to the questions I have asked. On that basis, I want to determine how we find the right balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u102	This is simply a story in which Mrs Jadnansing once again mentions the advantages and the disadvantages, in the hope that there will be no further discussion. During her career in this Parliament, Mrs Jadnansing has always said that vocational education is such a valuable type of education. She has also always talked about equal opportunities and the provision of opportunities for students. Then it would be very weird if she suddenly said: well, then we really have to keep that binding negative study advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u103	No, I didn't say that either. I didn't say that. I didn't say I was in favour and I didn't say I was against it. I said I'm very open in it. If I did that differently, I might as well get out of here right now and get another job somewhere. If we are discussing this with each other, is it really a question of exchanging information, facts, figures, with each other? Based on what we exchange, you come to a judgment. Of course, it is very clear to me in the basis: I am very, very much in favour of an admission right. That is what I really want to talk about today. Of course, this binding study advice is also very important. That is why I am asking the Minister a number of questions about this, in order to reach a weighted judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u104	Mrs Jadnansing asks fine questions; I do nothing about that. Is not the most important question about the binding study advice, however, whether it can actually be given in a good way? Mrs Jadnansing has also been a spokesperson for higher education for years. That's where it works. There they say: this year we set the limit at 43 credits. If that doesn't work, we'll make it 47 credits. There is a complete arbitrariness behind that. Mrs Jadnansing also said that I do not think that credits are being used here. It is therefore very complicated, also given the young age of these groups of students. Some students may not even be 17 yet. At that age, they would already be given binding study advice. Then they're still growing. Are you sure this is justified? Is it even possible, according to Mrs Jadnansing, to give such important advice to such a student in a well-founded, transparent way? Isn't that also a question she should ask the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u105	Thank you for this inspiring question. However, a young person is not sent away. It's not: it's done, over and out. It is an obligation of the educational institution. That's what makes it so complicated. If it were all done, over and out, I'd really hate it. It can't be said: you can't do anything anymore, it stops. The proposal states that the student will then be escorted to another programme. So it's not: the odds are gone, it's game over. It's not that. However, having said that, I would like to hear the Minister's answer in order to be able to reach a decision weighted. I'm really open in it. I'm also taking what Mr Van Meenen says. I look like a politician when I say I'm taking it. I really want to hear the Minister's statement first. She probably has even better answers to that than I do. For me, the most important thing is that we get access rights for all those young people and that we offer equal opportunities to all those young people. For me, it is important that young people should not be able to do anything if advice is forthcoming. If that were the case, I'd be against it immediately, because I really can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u106	It may not be game over, but it's dream over. I know that Mrs Jadnansing thinks this is important, too. What do kids dream of? So that could be over after four months. But on the basis of what? That's really the question for me. Of course, in my view, we find each other on this subject. A study opinion is very important. That's what it's gonna be after the gate. For the gate you give advice and then you have to continue to advise the student, even if it is not going in the right direction. But that's really different from a binding study advice, because then it is: even if you stay inside the school, at least you get away from your dream. I would like to give that to Mrs Jadnanancing. She doesn't have to answer this and she doesn't have to burst into sobbing, but that's something I've always felt like it's touching her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u107	That does affect me. I really think that everything we do in this Parliament should strike a balance between rights and duties on the one hand and putting young people in a position on the other. That is why I think this bill is so beautiful and that is why I am so in favour of the right of admission, because it really ensures that we put the students in a better position, regardless of randomness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u108	An image is now emerging as if this right of admission should suddenly be subject to an additional duty, from some sort of sense of justice. That surprises me, because I thought we were going to regulate the right of admission because there was an imbalance because there was no right of admission. Does Mrs. Jadnansing agree with me? Do you think she could go into the following? There can always be totally unmotivated students. They'll be there by now. I can't imagine the school doesn't just have the right to say "I'm sorry" at any time, but if you're acting like that, you're just gonna leave. You can do that with compulsory education even at a vo-school. He could just be expelled from school. I believe that there is a long way to go before that kind of excrement can be avoided. Isn't this some sort of sham discussion about the balance between rights and obligations? After all, we were in the process of restoring a rather poignant situation of the lack of balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u109	I'm really focusing on the front. We discussed this with each other, even during the round table discussion. You can see that young people are already being refused at the front, for all kinds of crazy reasons, which you think: that can't be true. So that's where we find each other. There must be a right of admission. What I've been thinking about is this. You have a right of admission, but at the same time, of course, the school must also have means, tools to say: if it really is not possible, we must be able to say goodbye to each other. A binding study opinion is an option for this. I'm listening to what you're saying now, and I'm going to listen to what the Minister will answer. On that basis, I can say: it is a good idea or not. However, first of all, the right of admission must continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u110	Mr. Grashoff... you need to think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u111	Sure, also because I would like to put my question in a balanced way. Sometimes it's not that easy at all. The professional association of trainers in the MBO has said, among other things, that the culture in the MBO must be aimed at guiding to the finish line rather than settling for insufficient study progress; you can also read that culture is already largely focused on this. How does Mrs Jadnansing weigh this factor in the context of this discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u112	Of course, I weigh that very heavily. It is one of the most important factors to reach judgment. In every debate I have here, I say: the importance of young people is paramount. The aim is to train young people as far and as high as possible. So I will definitely take that into account. Again, I am really concerned about the right of admission. All the other things that are meant to ensure that this is done in a very orderly manner will be dealt with. I will take a good look at that and think about it, but today we have to regulate the right of admission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u113	I also respond to the story of the rights and duties. I very much welcome the story of Mrs Jadnansing, who points out that there must be a balance between rights and obligations, especially in the interests of the pupil. I am therefore very curious to know what she thinks of our amendments which have the following meaning: if you want to invoke the right of admission, you have to ensure that you have signed up for the registration date, precisely because it gives students an incentive to sign up in good time and to get to that intake interview, for example. It is precisely these activities that allow students to start well prepared. Does Mrs Jadnansing agree with me that it is not bad at all to put a little pressure on it and say: do so, because then you will also retain that right of admission?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u114	Although I love the build-up of Mrs Lucas' question, I am not going along with it. Her amendments go a little too far for me. Why are we doing this? That right of admission came for a reason. On the one hand, it is a question of avoiding the false grounds for refusal, but on the other hand, we cannot say to a large number of young people, who we want to bring in, that they should not participate because they applied late or did not participate in the study-choice activity. We really need to get these kids to a diploma. They are often also subject to learning or qualification. You already punish them a little, because if they register too late, for example, they are not eligible for all those beautiful training courses for which they are awarded. They're too late for that; that's what it's game about. So they must be afraid of that. So I do not go so far as to follow Mrs Lucas' reasoning and say: we are going to bring in all kinds of grounds for refusal. I support the law that is now in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u115	Well, then it's a good thing we're having this little chat. My amendments are designed precisely to encourage students to go to such a conversation, because precisely that gives them a much greater chance of success, because at least they will get to the right training. So sometimes it can be very helpful to keep an extra stick behind the door and say: if you want to use the right of admission, you have to make sure that you sign up in good time, then you have to make sure that you have participated in such a study choice activity. I therefore hope that Mrs Jadnansing will look again at the amendments with those eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u116	You know me like no other. I'm always with diplomacy and always look at it. At the same time, I fear that I think: we should motivate young people and not demotivate them; we should not prevent young people either. This law is intended to bring in and keep young people in, and to get the right training. That's how I read this law and that's why I think it's a very nice law. I'm about to finish. It has already been mentioned by a number of other colleagues. In the round table we shared the fear that this right of admission would lead to bureaucracy and judicialisation. Can the Minister tell us to what extent that fear is justified? I couldn't quite pinpoint it. Oh, I do use a lot of English words. Sorry, Chairman. The bill introduces April 1st as a fixed login moment. In HBO it's May 1st. Can the Minister explain why she opts for different reporting times? Why not both April 1st or May 1st? I'm very much in favour of a registration date, but I'd like to be clear. It will not surprise anyone: the bill can count on the support of the Labour Party. Vocational education is there to offer all those thinking doers as many opportunities as possible to develop themselves. The institutional importance must always serve the interests of young people. Young people must be at the centre, not the system. No measures to ward off young people, but to motivate them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u117	Mr. Chairman. The proposal is then: the right of admission to the MBO. That's very good. It took a while. Already in October 2014 we talked about a shocking broadcast of Nieuwsuur, in which it became painfully clear that many young people were refused MBOs. We saw harrowing images of young people who wanted to be motivated, Mrs Lucas, but who were refused, for unclear reasons, while they had a right, appropriate diploma, a degree at level. Meanwhile, we know through JOB that there are a whole list of at least 100 to 200 complaints from people who are refused on the most wonderful grounds. It can't be. It is a fundamental part of our education system that you have the right to have with the right diploma. If that right is not guaranteed, I think we should act as legislators. That's ahead of us. It's not a favor to grant these students a right. It is the right that they already have and that we are now legally anchoring, a right that is already enshrined in international agreements. This bill now provides for and regulates this. We can have all kinds of discussions about how it is precisely arranged. I look forward to the Minister's reaction to bureaucracy and so on. Nobody's looking for bureaucracy. I don't think it's too bad, but I'd like to hear it from the Minister. There are, however, a few issues that we have some doubts about in the further development of the law. The legislative proposal states that additional requirements can be imposed only in the case of ministerial regulations and after intensive consultation with regard to the registration of different training courses. That is a limitation of the right of admission. Why is this regulated by ministerial regulation? After all, it affects the essence of the law. Is it not better to include these restrictions in the law itself, or to regulate this per AMvB by means of a suspension procedure? Would the Minister care to comment on this? On the limit of the six years of residence, my question is: why was that number chosen? In the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal, I do not really read back anything about this deadline. "Negatively binding study advice" is a very strange term in any case. In fact, we should remove that term from the dictionary, because an opinion by its nature and meaning is not binding. These kinds of artificial words don't usually do things right. It is actually a decision on the road; perhaps the Minister should include this in the law. The Minister wants a progress meeting to be held. We think that's excellent, too. That advice is given? I'm fine, too. I imagine that in that culture of MBO, in which guidance is very important, a mentor in a compelling conversation says to someone: are you in the right place? But in the end it should be up to the student himself whether that advice is followed or not, perhaps with the exception of very specific, strange behavior. I think I would like to hear from the Minister that an MBO school already has excellent opportunities to dismiss someone who really ruins things for others, as can be done in secondary education and even under compulsory education. So what's the problem? What's that BSA for anyway? If it were to be about restoring a kind of balance between rights and obligations, we find that amazing. After all, we were in the process of restoring an important defect in that balance between rights and obligations, namely the lack of the right to admission. Then you cannot then keep the story that all kinds of other duties should logically stand against it. Can the Minister answer that? It should be noted that the binding study opinion can be given after four months. That's very special. That's almost tying the cat to the bacon. A school that has had to comply with the right of admission with long teeth and reluctance could choose to take advantage, above all, of the first opportunity to keep that very sharp against the light. It will not happen very much, but I would not like it, and I would even like to avoid the appearance of it. I cannot imagine that an educational institution can actually judge after four months whether a student in the MBO has a chance of success or not. That's way too soon. A little while further away from the question of whether it should be binding at all, it is a wondrous deadline. Does the Minister agree with me? And if so, is it prepared to do so at least? What exactly does this binding study advice do? In my opinion, the law says "you will be sent away" and not "you will be accompanied to another education." I found Mrs Jadnansing's contribution interesting on that point. She said that the binding study advice is actually meant to guide a student to another programme, but that is not in the law. I see the Minister's gestures now, but I'm very curious about that. I have not been able to read that in the explanatory statement. I think the law just states: you'll be expelled and you'll find out for yourself. It is striking that the binding study opinion is also one of the most important objections that the professional association for trainers in the MBO has against this bill. I found it striking that this very important group says: this really does not fit the MBO; this is not the way we want to deal with our students. I think that is an important point. I would very much like the Minister to take that up. I think that we really need to be careful when we go overplanting these things, which we already have the greatest possible doubt as to whether they work in higher education, to the MBO, where there really is a link between teachers and students other than in higher education. It's a fremdkörper. I come to the deadline of 1 April. We very much agree that there will be a fixed, uniform registration date, but I would very much like the Minister to look again at whether this registration date should be 1 April or 1 May. If at a later date of registration there would really be insufficient time to go through a careful procedure with an intake interview and a study choice advice, then I can imagine that that would be an argument to choose before 1 April. However, I can well imagine that this could be done by 1 May. If so, I think it would be preferable not to set the date earlier than is strictly necessary. That's for all kinds of reasons. Many have already been mentioned. There may be very legitimate reasons why a potential student should register later. Can the Minister answer that? But let us be clear: my group is strongly in favour of a uniform registration date and a clear procedure with the advice and study guidance in advance, which will then look at whether the training really fits a student. This could work extremely well together with career guidance in VMBO. In this way, a lot of problems could perhaps be solved. In this context, I come to the training courses in which there is a lottery. Mrs Siderius has put that point very sharply. There's something strange in it that someone who has legitimate reasons to sign up later is actually fishing behind the net because he or she can't participate in that draw anymore. I can imagine that this training would be already full, unless there was a random hit and someone was losing it after that, so that that person would still have a chance. In this case, the chances of such a student are really decimated from one moment to the next; that is a good thing, because I think that chance is almost zero. That would be very strange if someone had just good reasons to sign up later. Would this be in favour of going to 1 May anyway, because that date might be more reasonable? This is very important for my group. There are two amendments. These are amendments tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Siderius. I have not yet determined my position on this. This will depend to a large extent on the Minister's response. I come to the sanctions policy. My group was already surprised in 2014 that so little is being addressed by schools about unjustly refusing pupils. After all, let us be clear: we are now laying down this right legally, but in fact it already existed. That right was already a pillar in our education system. How is that possible? And how is this governed by this law? Is there a tighter sanction provision and an earlier and clearer action of the inspection in the case of detected missing persons? That would be necessary if this right is to be properly anchored. Can the Minister answer that? The law also states that there is currently no restriction on the number of training courses, which will also be determined by ministerial regulation. On this point, too, I wonder whether such a fundamental issue should not be regulated by law. Finally. There is now a legislative proposal which is very good at its core, and my group is therefore very positive about it. At the same time, however, the binding study advice is on our stomachs like a heavy stone. I wonder how that will work out in the end with regard to our voting behaviour. In this sense, it is part of the solution. Mr Van Meenen also referred to this because there are still elements in the funding system that can be traced back to return, even if it is called study value here. In this way, we continue to give schools an incentive to prevent a student who is a little more difficult because it takes a little longer and needs some more guidance from being refused. Of course, the majority of schools will not do this, but every student who is refused this kind of argument is one too many.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u118	Mr. Chairman. During the preparation of this debate, I had to involuntarily think of a term from a completely different policy field, the foreign policy, namely 'departure with unknown destination'. This term reminds me of the 2,000 pupils who disappear in the summer between their initial training and their vocational training. It is a good thing that the government is paying attention to this undesirable situation and that there is now a proposal to regulate the right of admission. I would like to deal with two points, perhaps even three if time allows. First of all, I would like to talk about the transition of students. The transfer of information between schools and schools should be as easy as possible. The SGP therefore likes to look for the slenderest model. For this reason, the SGP has a number of doubts about the design of this proposal. The exchange of data is currently taking place in three steps: the secondary school supplies the data to the MBO, the MBO checks the data and then sends them back, after which the secondary school re-checks the data. As far as we are concerned, this can also be done in two steps. The MBO could, for example, pass on students' applications to secondary schools after 1 April. After all, the MBO knows which vo-schools these students come from. The secondary schools can then immediately check which pupils are leaving school but have not yet been notified. In this way you hit two birds with one stone, because at the same time you have regulated the responsibility of the vo-schools. They must ensure that students opt for further training. In our view, such an approach would make it possible to achieve the objective much faster. It also means that secondary schools have a keen interest in the vocational training of their pupils. I would like to receive a response from the government on this point. This type of action is inextricably accompanied by some bureaucracy. The MBO is burdened more than other sectors, because different models exist side by side. In addition to the education and examination regulations, there is an education agreement. There will also be a practical agreement. Does the Minister recognise that this system creates a lot of additional administrative burdens and even risks in terms of implementation? Is it prepared to take a critical look at these different systems side by side and look for ways to relieve the pressure? My second point is the admission of students. The regulation for this must be careful. It is clear that students should not be able to be prevented on improper grounds. The youth organisation from the MBO rightly suggests examples of bottlenecks. At the same time, schools deserve the opportunity to refuse pupils, especially if this is in the interests of that pupil himself, of other pupils or of education as a whole. The government expects institutions in the MBO precisely that they do not just allow students to walk in a hopeless path. On the basis of this proposal, institutions should not be held to be impossible. The bill provides a ground for refusing or excluding students for incapacity for work. The SGP considers this to be an acceptable basis, but the impact is still causing some confusion. In its further reaction, the government states that this is morally reprehensible behaviour. At the same time, it is added that admission can also be refused because of serious personality disorders. The SGP would not like to associate these groups directly with each other. It is also unclear why a personality disorder based on behaviour and statements should be demonstrated. Isn't this the kind of disorder that requires an expert opinion from a professional? The SGP believes that institutions should be allowed to pass pupils' preferences if the training cannot be successful for psychological or physical reasons. Think, for example, of a student suffering from major psychological problems. Is it wise to give this student a right of admission to social assistance training? We don't think so. The school certainly has its own responsibility in that regard. Or take a student who doesn't manage to sit still for several hours in a row. Does this student have to be given the right to undergo driver training? I would like to hear from the Minister what scope the proposal offers in such situations. The SGP Group considers that institutions with careful justification should be able to deviate from the study preference of the notified pupil. The institution will then make an effort to find another suitable training. Finally, the key issue of the binding study opinion. If I read the explanatory statement correctly, I realize that there are pros and cons; they have already been mentioned and I will not repeat them. The explanatory statement states that the binding study opinion must be a careful process and not come as a surprise. The statement of reasons must state the reasons on which it is based and must state its reasons in writing. The instruction is added: in so far as students are still subject to qualification or have not already received three negative binding study advice, they are entitled to another training. All in all, the SGP Group is of the opinion that although it can well imagine the hesitations about the binding study advice in the MBO, it has been carefully designed. It supports the binding study opinion drawn up in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u119	That careful design is only paper in the law. Mr Bishop has also spent years in education. I'm trying to make a show out of that. What is a carefully substantiated and considered binding study advice for a 17-year-old MBO student who has just started his training? Does Mr Bishop have any representation? Can I ask him to reflect on the way things are now going in higher education, for which no doubt similar texts on the binding study advice are in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u120	Let me start with the latter. I do not fully understand whether it has been developed in a similar way for higher education. I've focused on the effects for the MBO. It may remain a paper tiger, but it is then up to the inspection to monitor it so that it is carried out as provided for in the explanatory memorandum. This means that there has been a progress interview, the study progress has been discussed with the student and the development is being looked at. You can decorate it in all kinds of ways, but at some point the signal has to be given: I don't think this is a study for you. The explanatory statement says literally, and I find that heartwarming: it should not be a surprise. It's got to be the end of a trajectory. Perhaps I could add a question to the Minister? Does this mean that these discussions, which could lead to a binding study opinion, also involve looking at the training that the student might be able to take? I do have faith in the care with which the process is organized.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u121	The whole process described by Mr Bishop, the conversation, it should not come as a surprise and so on, is it in education now too? The extent to which this is done is, by the way, quite difficult to determine by the inspection. The only tangible thing is the piece of paper at the end that says: you can't go on with this training. That's the big difference. I am concerned about whether we should do this now for this target group, sometimes after four months. I think it's a big deal. I do not understand very well why Mr Bishop says that the inspection should monitor this. We were just trying to keep the inspection away a little bit, but now it has to be for about every student the entire call file...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u122	This concerns the adequacy requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u123	Well, that's what's missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u124	I can feel those hesitations. I agree that this right is created in this legislative proposal, but then a school of balance must also have instruments in its hands to be able to conduct good policies. I would like to hear an explanation from the Minister, but I have read it in such a way that the law that a school can apply has been carefully designed. That's how I look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u126	I was at the end of my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u128	Mr. Chairman. The differences in levels 2, 3 and 4 were very clear before competence education became a reality. Some students piled from 2 and 3 to level 4. In my case, that was in the training management assistant. They didn't pass the language management exam, which involved stylistic errors, inconsistencies, incorrect short phrases, pleonasms and that sort of thing. That was a matter of hard work and a lot of practice. Most of them made it, fortunately, and they became those supersecretaries that we can hardly find anymore; at least not in the rocks, but we can find them in non-cost education. Why is that? Why do we find the truly well-trained secretaries in non-cost education and not in the rocks anymore? Because in the rocks, as in the left, there has been an overfocus on equal opportunities for years. There's no such thing as over-focus in non-expensive education. There the quality is strictly monitored, so that the level remains the same for years and the civil effect is very strong. In the rocks, that overfocus on equal opportunities got a place in competence-driven education. If there were supposed to be no equal opportunities, something had to be devised to help everyone get a diploma. The examinations for different subjects, also for that beautiful subject language management, were replaced by a so-called aptitude test. Language control only made up a few percent of that. So it could happen that we now deliver management assistants or executive secretaries with a beautiful diploma, who are unable to complete a composite sentence and who have no idea of verb spelling or punctuation. But they can work nicely with colleagues and they never forget to say "good morning" to a guest. Everything counts equally. Everyone a diploma. Also the stackers, who from level 2 found the way up, and even flowed to the HBO, and we knew that, because that did not degenerate into the diploma fraud, of which the HBO is still recovering. This bill is in line with that left-wing ambition to allow everyone, regardless of their suitability, to receive any training in order to give everyone the opportunity to obtain a qualification. The left-wing parties call that equal opportunities, but we call it diploma inflation, because that's what it is. It's the reflex of the left, based on envy and jealousy. It cannot and must not be the case that someone with more ambition and harder work distinguishes themselves, for example by making more money. I'd rather all be poor. In education, that translates into this kind of policy. If one student has less chance than another of a nice diploma, we lower the level. All equally poor and equally dumb. What do we see now in this bill? Registration and registration of prospective students are crucial processes for education. They really belong to the core task. This includes appropriate and proportionate legislation. The PVV has serious doubts as to whether this is the case. It is desirable to encourage students to apply as early as possible. But that's what the training can do, isn't it? MBOs serve the region in which they are rooted. They are supposed to have warm contacts with the VMBOs in their neighborhood. This will enable them to make good arrangements to hold information meetings at an early stage, still far ahead of the exams, in order to point out to pupils the possibility of registration. In the case of such an early notification, there will be an intake interview as soon as possible to organise a possible placement. That is also what happens in practice. I don't know any better. I know examples of teams that have placed more than 60 suitable and motivated students every year for the summer holidays. First come, first served. That's a good principle. Why do we have to shut everything down? Why is there the mandatory notification on 1 April? What does a study choice advice add for a student who is motivated and has received a favourable opinion following an intake interview? What's with the over-regulation? Shouldn't the choice of course be widely discussed from the pre-training point of view? It's not for nothing that we've rigged career orientation. That is precisely what has been done to support students in making a choice. How's that going? Is there something else, or perhaps very much, wrong with its implementation? And if so, where does the Minister see opportunities for improvement? In our opinion, this law is based on great distrust, distrust of educational institutions and teachers. As if they would not be able to attract and place a potential student at an early stage; as if they could not organise valid intake conversations. Of course they are capable of doing so, and of course this is done very carefully. After all, schools benefit from preventing early school leaving as much as possible. What does the House of Representatives really think about interfering with a generic law in how the intake procedure for which an education chooses? How many times did it happen to me? During a Level 2 intake interview, students answered the question of what they wanted to become: I want to be a lawyer; I want to be a pediatrician; I want to be a judge. Those are of course beautiful dreams, but we are dealing with placement on level 2. Then they stranded in the same training; they applied to another sector, then got out of sight and went to another rock. After about four years, I saw them back in our building. "Hello sir," was it, "how are you?'. Should such a student be granted a right of admission? No, the training must have the right to refuse students on grounds of incapacity and then to accompany them to a more appropriate training. The chances of getting a diploma and finding a job are greater. That's very important. Those schools do not need these legal interventions in their way of working at all. Recently, we discussed the reversal of the first and second corrections. This concerns the examination in secondary education. By parties here, by all those domes and by some 3,000 angry teachers was made extremely miserable about that. It would be based on mistrust. That is right in this case, because there is a great deal wrong with that correction. However, it would also affect the professional. But is it not right that this bill is based on unjustified mistrust and is it not right that this bill is a huge attack on teachers' profession? What exactly is the problem? What is the extent of the problem? We've already talked about it. The question of how proportional this law is then is related. One of the objectives of this bill is to prevent early school leaving, but why do we not arrange it in front? Why choose a right of admission for all students, regardless of motivation or specific suitability? Why should we allow these students to hang around in the classroom for another year as dead weight, to bother fellow students and teachers, and then make them disappear through the back door with binding study advice? If we do so, many motivated MBOs will also leave the training early. I've seen it so many times. After all, in a few months they become severely demotivated because each teacher ultimately focuses on the level of the worst, most unmotivated pupil. That way, the real mbos will disappear prematurely. I've seen that happen too. Around Christmas vacation, those students disappeared. I would have loved to keep them. And where did they go? To the non-costed training courses. I would like to give it my heartfelt support, but it is detrimental to the rocks, which already have the image that they only serve problem groups. I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u129	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u130	Mr. Chairman. First, let me tell you how I'm gonna do the answer. This might be useful in view of the expectations of Members. I shall begin with a few general comments. They will also relate to the usefulness and necessity of this bill. Then I will go into the questions that have been asked about the April 1 registration, the moment and the how. Next, I will deal with the right of admission and the exceptions to it. Then I will deal with the many questions that have been asked about the binding study advice and finally I will deal with the other questions. Last week around this time, all VMBO final exam candidates were informed if they had passed. For many, that was a pleasant and happy day, because they could prepare for a further education. Others may still have to retest or fail. That's annoying, but for those with a retest there is also the possibility to continue afterwards. I also said last week: "Congratulations all; it is time to celebrate but also to think about your further education. You shouldn't wait too long, because learning until a start qualification gives you a ticket to a bright future." We're discussing the right of admission here. That is part of a broader agenda. That agenda for the MBO is made up of three tracks. The first track is about improving quality. That's why I improve and invest heavily in the MBO with the quality agreements. At the same time, we also raise the bar. With the Action Plan Focus on Vakmanschap the road to challenging vocational education has been used. I have also invested specifically in education for talented students. The second track consists of responsive education that responds to societal and economic challenges. We've rolled out a solid agenda for that. Through the Regional Investment Fund, I invest in innovative projects, encouraging education to work together with companies on challenging and contemporary education. The revision of the qualification structure and the introduction of electives provide an incentive for the renewal, simplification and flexibilisation of the MBO. In addition, the Chamber will soon be presented with the proposal for an experiment with cross-overs. In doing so, I am promoting that education should be better and faster in line with the needs of the labour market. The third track deals with equal opportunities for all young people in order to achieve a good degree and thus meet the challenges and opportunities of the labour market and society. That is what we are talking about today with the right of admission. In recent times, I have called for attention to be paid to young people in a vulnerable position. The decline in the number of early school leavers shows that policy is also paying off. I am proud of this, but at the same time I must point out that we can increase the ambition in this area. Today we are actually discussing, in a way, the final part of this agenda. With this bill, we will ensure that the MBO is accessible to all young people and offers opportunities for all young people. I mention young people who may not get it out of their homes, for whom it is very important that they can get acquainted with further education. I call young people who, for whatever reason, may be vulnerable and need protection. But I also mention young people who may have excellent opportunities. That is why I am also saying to Mrs Lucas: of course, this legislative proposal focuses to a large extent on the creation of equal opportunities. It focuses on opportunities for those who don't have the parents who can try to talk them in on a detour somewhere. But it's also about excellent students. I recently heard about a student who had received the award for excellent student and entrepreneur in Twente and now has his own company. He has double diplomas, but at first he was refused twice in an education because he was too old or because he was not considered motivated. So that's the kind of talent people can grow into. We have an efficient school system in which students make the transition to secondary education early. This means that the selection also takes place relatively early. We discussed this in detail yesterday in the context of the inspection report, the State of Education and the OECD publication, which states that our system is in itself well organised but that early selection is vulnerable if the transitions that follow and the compensatory factors are not properly organised. A part that is not properly regulated is the transition from vmbo to mbo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u131	Let me make a point of order. Mrs. Lucas, I've seen you standing. The Minister has indicated the elements on which she intends to go, and I propose that the Minister should now be given the opportunity to conclude her general introduction. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u132	Mr President, I was addressed directly by the Minister. I think I can always respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u133	If it's a personal fact, you're welcome to respond. I'll give you a chance now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with the Minister that every talent should have a chance, and I do not dispute that at all. What I would like to know from the Minister is exactly how big the problem is. There is this case of a successful entrepreneur who has been refused twice, but what exactly are we talking about? What are the numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u135	Mrs Lucas, that was not a personal fact. I suggest that the Minister continue with her introduction. You will then have the opportunity to ask questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u136	Mr. Chairman. Access to education is a great asset, as it is a driving force behind upliftment and also a driving force towards a job as a driver, nurse or ICT specialist. It's all possible. I want to talk about accessibility. Each year, more than 100,000 pupils move from secondary education to MBO, including those with a VMBO diploma from the follow-up profile and those passing through practical education. Fortunately, this transition is good for many students, partly thanks to the guidance of the vo-school and a good intake on the MBO. But there's also a group that isn't doing well. That brings me to Mrs Lucas' question, which was also raised by Mr Beertema and Mr Rog. What exactly is the reason for this bill? Can the Minister explain that one more time? This bill is intended for the students whose transition is not going well. This is done, for example, after late registration by the student in the further training. As a result, wrong choice of study is only discovered much later and the chances of flow and a successful career are reduced. It also happens with the so-called "summer leak," something that affects 2,000 pupils. We lose these students because we don't have a warm transfer between vmbo and mbo. We're gonna put an end to that with the bill. There are also the uncertainties in the admission policy of the institutions. The figures differ, because one says one hundred and the other two hundred. Someone else says it's the tip of the iceberg. We know that there are many signals, and we also know that these signals are very persistent. This bill does more than just solve the problem of the students who have been refused, because it is also important for those 2,000 students we are losing now. There will now be a right of admission in principle. Mbo doesn't have that! It is the only education sector in the Netherlands where that right does not actually exist. Yesterday we talked very intensively about creating equal opportunities and then we all found that the vulnerabilities are in the transitions to education. I think that with this bill we can greatly improve the transition from vmbo to mbo. With this bill alone, it is not possible, and that is why Mr Rog asked about the links. Are we going to stimulate these pathways, as requested in his motion? Of course! We need more than just this bill. There is also a need for cultural change. In my opinion, it is of the utmost importance that we also work on improving the LOB in addition to the links. On the LOB the Chamber receives a letter from the Secretary of State and me before the recess, because we want to involve them more in the continuous learning line from vmbo to mbo. Our system works with a civil effect. With a diploma, you have a right of admission to further education. We are now repairing an omission in the current legislation. Students, for example, are refused because they are too old. I spoke to Linda, who was refused because she has two children. Yousef had a 6 on his VMBO diploma, but did not pass the additional test at the MBO. I also heard poignant stories from vmbo-qualified people who are 23 years too old or would live too far away. Recently I heard the example of a blind boy signing up to become a piano tuner. Because of his visual impairment, he was refused. He then asked for one chance to vote a piano on the spot. Turned out what? He absolutely had the qualities for this and could therefore just start the training. In the MBO, unlike in other sectors of education, we have actually made no arrangements for this. I think it is important that every young person who has obtained and can learn his VMBO diploma can go to the MBO, regardless of his or her background. The young people in the MBO are very often still subject to learning or qualification. They should be given the opportunity to obtain at least their MBO degree. More than 30% of pupils who go to MBO for the first time are subject to learning or qualification. This means that the solution is different from that in higher education. I have often heard the comparison with higher education, including the admission and study advice. The MBO is largely comparable to secondary education. A very large group of students have to go to school. We need to ensure that they can get there in a good way. I say to Mr Beertema, Mrs Lucas and Mr Rog that there are persistent complaints about transparency. Students don't know why they're refused. Half of the institutions have refusals to a greater or lesser extent. Students are not always formally refused, but are advised informally to seek a different solution. Sometimes students don't know why they can't go anywhere. That affects their motivation. Motivation is also determined by how you are looked at and what expectations are expressed about you. Students with a VMBO diploma who apply for further education are told that they are not smart or social enough after all or that they are otherwise unfit. That's not acceptable. Mr Grashoff spoke about the right of transit. I call that the civil effect, and that is what we are dealing with here. It is about the right to go to the MBO with a VMBO diploma with the right subjects. This also helps the motivation of students and it is good for their self-confidence. Mr Rog and Mrs Jadnanansing asked whether this would require a law. Can this not be done in another way, for example by means of self-regulation? You can do a lot with self-regulation. As an association, the MBO Council can make agreements with its members, i.e. with the MBO institutions in the Netherlands. In the event of non-compliance with these agreements, the association may itself take appropriate measures. This depends on what happens between the MBO Council and the institutions. The disadvantage of this is that a student cannot rely on agreements made between the members of the MBO Council. The student is not a party to these appointments. Nor can the inspection monitor the fulfilment of agreements by ROCs because it is not a party either. It is not that complaints have arisen overnight. Complaints about the admission procedure have been known for a long time. Roc's had the opportunity to do something about this. The efforts of rocks have sometimes been successful so far but, in my opinion, have had sufficient results in general. That is why I think it is important that this legislative proposal should provide institutions with a clear framework and strengthen the student's position, among other things. Those objectives cannot be achieved by self-regulation by ROCs and that is not in line with the admission requirements in other educational sectors. It is therefore only logical once again to avoid self-regulation. The administrative burden associated with this bill has been asked for. That is my last point in this general block. Mrs Lucas and Mr Rog have asked for this. I have tried to keep the administrative burden as low as possible in this legislative proposal. I see the concerns in the Chamber about administrative burdens and closed procedures. That is precisely why, with this legislative proposal, I often agree with what is already happening by intakes and teachers in the regions, such as the registration date, the exchange of transfer data and the proper intake. This is satisfactory in many regions, but not everywhere. This bill calls for a number of things which, in my view, are quite self-evident to ask. Firstly, institutions and vocational schools are given the obligation to exchange some information on the notification with each other and with municipalities. This is to enable that warm transfer of students from vmbo to mbo. The charges are set out in the explanatory memorandum. These amounts to 2.9 million in total: €86,000 for vo and 2.8 million for mbo. The fact is that in most regions these burdens are already borne by schools and institutions on their own initiative in order to gain insight into the transition. They indicate that they need this because that insight pays off. If you want to make sure that the transition from vo to mbo goes smoothly, you have to know who your students are and where they are. Otherwise, you'll never be able to prevent that summer leak. It also leads to less failure and switch behavior. By legally anchoring this exchange, with more safeguards for privacy, the costs are attributed to the bill. In fact, therefore, it is a question of costs which are already being incurred to a large extent, but which we are now explicating here. If we want a continuous career orientation and guidance, there's no other way. I would add that we did this according to the Actal method. That means that the calculation for each operation is set out in fifteen minutes. By the way, the Ministry of OCW has received the compliments of Actal for the way it deals with its own administrative burden calculations, I am proud to say. We are one of the three departments that Actal has said are doing well. Institutions will therefore be obliged to make available the information on which they set up their admission procedure by 1 February. That's an extra burden, but isn't it logical that we want to give students this information? We also ask institutions to give students a study choice advice. That's an extra burden, but that's a very logical step if you want to keep students in the right place. In higher education, that has never been an argument either. I now turn to all other examples and questions. I would also like to come back to the administrative burden. At the end, I will come back to the main question, namely whether or not an opinion should be sought from Actal. That is all about the general questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u137	The Minister states that there is actually a right of admission in all other types of education. I think that's true. That's why it's a good thing we're looking at how to fix that in the MBO. I have also always said that there is nothing wrong with a right of admission in itself. The question is, however, how do you manage it? I have a very specific question about that. The Minister himself makes the comparison with higher education. There is indeed a right of admission, but other conditions apply. In higher education, an institution may refuse a student who has not taken part in a study choice activity. In higher education, a form of decentralised selection has also been explicitly chosen. If there is a limited number of places, students can be placed on the basis of the greatest suitability and most likely to successfully complete the programme. Then why did the MBO choose to do this in a completely different way? I am in favour of a right of admission, but let us stay very close to the way in which we have dealt with it in higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u138	I think I've just gone into that. I must honestly say that I see in different places, even in my own department, that the individuality of the MBO is not always sufficiently recognized. The MBO is included in many studies with primary and secondary education. There are numerous opinions that are about po, vo and mbo. Or the MBO is included in higher education, because it is a further education. But, I say, more than half of our youngsters are on that MBO. The MBO is a very own type of education with very own characteristics, but also with a very own population. Some of the pupils on the MBO are subject to compulsory schooling, some of them are subject to qualification. Part of the pupils are 18 years and older, and even a fairly large part is 23 years and older. And so we have to judge the MBO on its own merits. I do not think that a number of things that are justified in higher education are self-evident in the case of MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u139	Now I think we are getting to the heart of the problem. It is precisely because the population of the MBO is so diverse that I think it is very difficult to let go of one generic scheme as it is now. This indeed leads to the administrative burden. Has the Minister considered applying this proposal only to, for example, 16-year-olds or 17-year-olds, or to pupils in level 1 or level 2 who do not yet have a starting qualification? Has the Minister also considered how more tailor-made work could have been done, rather than shooting a cannon at a mosquito in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u140	That cannon and that mosquito came from the MBO Council. I am sorry to hear that Mrs Lucas repeats those words, because I do not recognize myself in that. In fact, I think it is only natural for us in the MBO, as in the other education sectors, to say: you have a right of admission. I think it's only natural that we say: if you have your VMBO degree and you have chosen a good direction, then you simply have the right to a further education. If we really want to compensate for the early selection we have in the Netherlands in a good way by stacking and growing, then we have to start by ensuring that the most basic transitions are in order. This is a very generic law. It still offers a lot of space for customization for settings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u141	That statement about the cannon and the mosquito is not so much about the right of admission as about this bill. Are we not trying to solve this by means of this bill in a way that may only make it worse, and at least brings with it a great deal of administrative burden? Shouldn't this bill have been a little more refined, with a little more attention being paid to the different groups in the MBO, and therefore also to the rights and obligations of the different groups? I'd like to hear a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u142	Mrs Lucas draws a conclusion on the administrative burden. I find that conclusion rather far-reaching. I've just gone over the administrative burden. This indeed means that data from vmbo must be transmitted to the MBO. But without it, you can't solve the problem, including the summer leak. There is a need for further study discussions; I will come back to that in a moment. The entire Chamber attaches great importance to better career guidance. I honestly cannot imagine how this career guidance could be realised without a conversation between the student, the school and the teacher. You can call this administrative burden, but if we do that, any educational activity in itself is actually an administrative burden. I can hear Mr Rog doing this in an inquisitive way. I still get that. But now this is happening in a concluding sense, because it is said that this would entail a huge increase in administrative burdens and would therefore not be proportionate. I think that is a far-reaching conclusion that I do not share; let me be clear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u143	We're talking about the admission procedure, the intake interview. The Minister states that in the current situation there are also prospective students who are refused in an informal manner. I think we want to get rid of that. But does this bill take that away? Can the Minister comment on that? Do we not achieve the same effect in the end, for example by setting up the intake conversation and knowing exactly what elements students can be rejected on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u144	I don't expect that. When I look at the experiences in higher education, you see that this helps to prepare properly for the choice of study. Students appreciate that study-choice check, too. Student and school together can therefore make a more conscious choice. I think that the way we are shaping that now is really going to help us make a better transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u145	That is the ideal picture, and that will also be considered desirable by my group. What could also be a result is that the intakers, if there is a spot somewhere, are well prepared for what elements, on which qualifications etc. in that trajectory they can reject the prospective student. In fact, don't you still have that informal rejection circuit the Minister was talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u146	I want to limit that by making it much more transparent, so that students know what is going on. Now that's all very shady. It's also hard to get a grip on it. The fact is, we've been hearing a lot of these complaints for years. I understand that with a law, I can't solve all the problems in the MBO. I wish! But I do think that we can make a contribution, and we can also strengthen the position of the students, where appropriate, and thus gain more control over these vague rejections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u147	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u148	Several questions have been asked about the registration procedure, especially about the time of 1 April. Why does it have to be April 1st and not May 1st? Mr Rog asked what the effects of 1 May would be. Mr Van Meenen has tabled an amendment to postpone the date to 1 May. Let me be honest that I have wrestled with the question of whether it should be April 1 or May 1st. Everyone who thinks about it thinks first of all: we use 1 May in higher education, don't be so difficult and do so here too. But I was just saying that we have to judge the MBO on its own merits. From our perspective, it can be practical to use the same date as in higher education. But if you talk to schools about that and see how things are going, there are other arguments conceivable. For example, I see that there is already work in many regions with an early registration date, i.e. 1 April. In the regions Utrecht, Noord-Holland and Brabant people already work with the date 1 April. Of the Utrecht region, I know that more than 90% of students apply in good time. The majority of the other examples are also on time. They also indicate that there is no confusion with 1 May. Another argument is that if it becomes clear at the beginning of April that a student has not yet applied, there is still time for the school to accompany him while he is still at school. Finally, it is important that MBO settings indicate that an early login date gives them the space for a careful intake, because they often start earlier. Because I hesitated, I asked the question during the internet consultation what would be the ideal date: 1 April or 1 May. I note that we have received more than 100 responses and that there are differences in preference, but most of them express a preference for 1 April. So I took over that date, but May 1st is not impossible. The question is whether we do it because we think "let the MBO go with higher education." Or are we satisfied with the specific requirements that we impose on the MBO? I think it is important that this way the transition and the LOB activities can also take shape with both dates. It forces or stimulates students, just what you want, to think about a choice of studies or a follow-up course on time. As has been said, the Court will soon receive a letter on the LOB activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u149	Mr Van Meenen, I see that you want to interrupt, but we have just agreed that the Minister will finish this part of her speech first. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u150	What are the negative consequences of registration after 1 April, Mr Rog asked. It has no consequences for the student's right of admission. He retains this right. The deadline for registration is 1 April. What does this mean for someone who signs up later? This loses a number of advantages of early registration, namely the right to study advice, a timely intake procedure at the MBO and quickly know if you can get to the training and priority for popular courses with only a limited number of places. Eventually, you're gonna have to do something. Soon I'll come back to that in great detail. These are the advantages of an early application. With a registration on April 1st, there is a little more time for that. That means that I am referring to Mr Van Meenen's amendment to item No. 16 yet betrayed, weighing everything. I deliberately chose 1 April, but as far as I am concerned it is not a very difficult issue. I think that early admission is the most important thing. I understand that most schools say that 1 April is more practical for them and that they have more time for proper preparation. Then who am I to tell them to go to higher education anyway? That was my reasoning at the time and, frankly, I do not have much to add. It is important that the transition is properly recorded. ICT systems should provide insight into all switchers from vmbo to mbo. We're already having the first good conversations about this. I am prepared to facilitate the parties. This point again has to do with administrative burdens. Most of the RMC regions, schools and institutions already implement this registration. The administrative burden does not therefore change with this legislative proposal. Schools are already investing in registration. That brings with it burdens. Schools acquire a system for this, because it pays off: a better understanding of the switching student often leads to less failure and switch behaviour. However, these systems only provide a regional insight, not a nationwide one. To ensure the privacy of students, this exchange is now given a legal place. If a student has applied to the MBO in good time, he will thus be entitled to a study choice advice during the course of application. That's an important incentive to sign up early. It is quite possible that a student may still have doubts about his choice, the final career or the institution itself after registration. So that's all possible. It is not a duty to follow the training you have applied for. You do have the right to be accompanied. An intake call is not a selection call and a selection advice is not binding. That's important to report. It is a tool for the student and a way to lose the "summer leak," which is 2,000 students between vmbo and mbo. ROC Nijmegen doesn't talk about an intake either, but about a welcome interview, in which together with the student the best way to develop his talents is explored. This is about the balance between the student's experience and the student's interest, the image he or she has of the programme and the motivation. In this context, Mrs Siderius asked about the role of the parents. It is up to the institutions to implement the intake policy. It is obvious that parents should be involved, especially in the case of young people who come from appropriate education. In the case of minors, parents are involved anyway, as it is then the parent who signs the education agreement. With the MBO Council, parents and education, I am currently discussing how we can ensure that the agreements on additional support made during the intake land in a good way in the education teams. I will inform the Chamber of the progress of these talks. However, especially for older students, I think it is very important that they make their own choices. Yesterday, during the debate on equal opportunities, we talked about phenomena such as homework guidance and parents who do everything to keep looking after their children, even when they are older. I have mentioned examples of universities where parents raise a finger when questions are asked to students during an introductory interview. Parents should therefore be involved where necessary, but where possible, it is important to pay particular attention to upcoming students themselves. Mrs Jadnansing asked what more we could do to achieve careful study choices. In many regions, cooperation between the VET and the MBO is already underway within the framework of the vsv agreements. There is attention to LOB and study information. I know that the rocks in the Eindhoven region are working with the vo-schools to bring forward the open days of the MBO, so that students have enough time to orient themselves. Of course, that's all part of it. By means of the code or conduct contained in the legislative proposal, stakeholders in the region, including the municipalities, can make arrangements to develop such initiatives in more places. In my opinion, that way you can create sufficient customization. Mr Bishop asked why the vo-institutions should give their data to the MBO and whether we could do so the other way round. The MBO would then have the data and go to the vocational schools, at least that is how I understood his question. We need to have a clear view of that population in that exchange. You need some kind of initial population to know who hasn't signed up for it yet. Only in the vo-schools can we determine that initial population. If we were to do that at MBO, if MBO institutions were to get their students registered, then those institutions would have to go to a lot of different vo-schools and report that back there. Schools in vo should then, at a time when students may no longer be at school, go back to digging into their systems, check their files and see if they are talking about the same pupils. It's an intensive message traffic. Through the intended ICT system, this can be done much faster and with more safeguards for privacy if that data goes from vo to MBO. MBO institutions only need to deliver to one point instead of perhaps 40 schools. It is also a tried and tested system as it is already used satisfactorily at regional level. If we did it as Mr Bishop suggested, we would lose students too. We do not solve the summer leak, because the MBO only knows the students who have applied there. So where do you find those lost students? Where do you find those students who do have a vo-diploma but do not register at the MBO? All things considered, I think that the present proposal is practical. To be honest, I have not heard any complaints about this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u151	The Minister was frank about her hesitation as to whether the deadline should be 1 April or 1 May. Let me be frank about this: it is not a very hard point for me either. My main argument for choosing 1 May is that it seems very good to me when there is one clear moment for information to people leaving secondary education. It took me a while to propose 1 April for higher education. Hence my amendment. Moreover, I think it is important for this target group to have as long as possible the time to orient themselves. That would also argue for 1 May. My question is how the Minister looks at that, at one moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u152	I get that. There are advantages to that. It is good to have that moment on one date, if it would ask for the same preparation. If you keep on on 1 April and make sure that schools do the information and guidance a little earlier, that can be very good. I mentioned the example of the Eindhoven region. I hear from schools that they prefer it by a majority. In regions where they are already holding on to 1 April, they say that it is to their full satisfaction and that they have no problem with it at all. That is why I am inclined to choose 1 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u153	That's very much driven from the schools and the boards. It is of course very easy: the sooner the students register, the more time we all have. But I'm reasoning from the student. If he has more time to orient himself, it's in his favor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u154	You don't have to. You can turn that around, too. A student who enrols before 1 April is not at all forced to attend the course for which he or she has registered. The student has more time to think about the guidance and the right choice of study. Also from the student's perspective there is a lot to say before April 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u155	When the date in the Act becomes 1 May, no one prevents them from propagating in their own region April 1st and starting discussions in advance. In this sense, it is ultimately important for the student to have as long as possible the time to orient himself. I don't think we're gonna agree entirely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u156	It does not seem to me that this gives the necessary clarity, because then you will get different systems in all kinds of regions. This seems to me very unfortunate for students who want to take a look in a few regions. I do not agree with Mr Van Meenen that schools only reason on what is practical for them to organise. If they still have the students or students close to them, they can stimulate the application. According to the MBO schools, they can take the time to guide that well, while they are not yet busy with the students who are in their graduation time. Again, it is not a hard point for me, but I have not heard from the JOB, for example, that she would explicitly argue for 1 May for students.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u157	I think it is very good to hold on to 1 April, precisely because of the proposal I made in my contribution on the transfer. I think there is indeed an advantage in the system in which the MBO institution returns to the vo-school which students have reported. This means that the vo-school has an additional check on whether the pupils who are still required to qualify have registered with a further training course. If we continue on 1 April, the vo-school responsible for enrolling in a further education will have time to repair cases where necessary. I would like to suggest to the Minister that we look at this again calmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u158	Then I understand Mr Bishop in such a way that he nuances his previous statement. He does not say that the MBO schools at the vo-schools where the students come from should check if they have applied properly. He says, however, that it is logical that vo-schools do so at the MBO, but that the MBO links it back to the vo-schools. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u159	Yeah, it's basically an interplay. My line of thinking is to take an extra strike out of the procedure and my proposal is therefore to have the receiving school report this back to the school where the student comes from and say "this is our list." Then the vo-school where the student comes from checks that list. At the same time, it has a covering instrument in its hands to check whether all pupils have complied with the agreement that they should register for further training. I think you're building an extra check in a natural way via an abbreviated route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u160	That is precisely not possible via the shortened route; I have just tried to explain that. We then have privacy elements and a complicated ICT system. This is the very clear preference of schools. Bearing in mind the discussion we have just had on administrative burdens, I am afraid to add another step to that. I wouldn't be wrong if we could do that at the end of the day at the push of a button, but then we should take a closer look at the ICT system. It could then be very useful because vo-schools know what is happening to their pupils. I am prepared to see if that is possible, but I do not want to go into any further conflict with Mrs Lucas and Mr Rog, who would blame me for adding administrative burdens again. That could be the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u161	The Minister knows the SGP well enough to know that the neck hairs of the SGP will stand up as soon as there is a proposal leading to additional administrative burden on schools. The proposal that the SGP is trying to adjust slightly leads to less burden. We do not need to discuss this publicly here, but can also take a look at it in business. It is not a political issue or anything like that, it is simply a question of impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u162	That seems to me to be a good thing, because I am in favour of the proposal contained in the law because of the reduction of administrative burdens, because of good ICT systems that can work quickly and because of the guarantee of privacy. Perhaps we should have this discussion again outside this Chamber in depth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u163	The Minister says the intake interview is a tool designed to close the summer leak. I think we all want to close that. The question is why students who did not register with an MBO institution in time would suddenly go to such a voluntary intake interview, especially if there is no consequence if they do not go there. The same applies to the registration date, whether it is 1 April or 1 May: what is the consequence if you register on 2 May? There isn't one. One may just be admitted. Is there enough pressure and initiative to do it anyway, to go to the intake interview and to register for that date? I do not think it will have any consequence if we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u164	No, but it is also a reinforcement of a right and is not meant to punish students. It is very important that they are given the opportunity to prepare themselves properly, to see if they have chosen the right course and to discuss with the follow-up course whether they also think that the course in question is the right one, after listening to the student, or whether they say: go and have another look there or there. I think that most students will simply have to report, as more than 30% are subject to learning and qualification. From the other students you can expect them to come in now, but sooner. If vo-schools give them good information and make it clear that this is the intention, then we may need some time before everyone understands that it has to be done sooner, as we have seen in higher education. In the end, I don't have much to worry about that being the problem right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u165	It's not about punishing me, either. I am concerned that we are making policies that work and that we are achieving our goal of closing the summer leak. Then it might help to add a consequence if someone doesn't sign up for the login date and doesn't participate in the intake call. Then you encourage young people to go to the intake interview and prepare themselves well. Now it's all very noncommittal. It has no consequence whatsoever. I don't understand why things would be different than they are now, because now students can also go to an open day, but apparently they don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u166	Why should something only work if there's a punishment on it? I don't think that makes any sense here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u167	I don't know where the word "punishment" comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u168	Well, because then they can't be admitted. They have a self-interest if there is selection at a limited number of training places. This is my next block. They will have that disadvantage if they register after 1 April or after 1 May. They will no longer be eligible for training where there are more students than places and the institution will somehow have to make a choice in who is or is not admitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u169	I object to it being consistently referred to as 'punishment'. I don't want to take away people's rights. You can't invoke that right if you haven't tried to go to such an intake interview. If a school still wants to place a student, even though it hasn't been to the intake and he hasn't signed up for that date, I'm fine with that, but I don't want a student to be able to rely on it without him participating in that intake. That's a whole other thing than punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u170	It is a very large proportion of young people who are subject to compulsory education. In the case of secondary education and primary education, we are not saying that we should report and not be allowed to do so. Let us assume a right to and a duty to education and then encourage everyone to make the best use of that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u171	It seems very good to me that the intake interview is used to obtain the best advice on whether the training you want to register for suits you. I have another question about the parents. I gave an example of a parent who had been refused by an MBO school, while the student was unable to state clearly what support and guidance were needed. I don't think it's right for MBO schools to refuse parents at the intake interview, whether the student is older or younger than 18 years old. Will the Minister put this point on the table in the talks she is having and tell MBO schools that this is not desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u172	With the nuance I put in earlier. It may also be that parents would like to have the conversation for their child, while a child is quite capable of doing so. Then I think it's very good that MBO schools say they want to talk to the student and not to the parents. In the case of appropriate education and so on, it is a completely different story, as I have already said, as is the case with minors. This calls for customization. It is up to the institutions, but I am happy to discuss it with them. I do not want to impose too many obligations on them, because they must be able to deliver tailor-made solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u173	I am not asking for an obligation, but I would like the Minister to discuss it. A good intake interview is also about how professional the teacher conducts that conversation. Such a teacher should also intervene if the parents raise their finger each time, as the minister just said. This should ensure that the student is placed in the foreground and in position. If the Minister would like to discuss that, I'd be delighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u174	I think I already said that. I'd be happy to say so. I am already talking to the MBO Council, parents and education to allow the additional support that may be needed during the intake to land in a good way, including with the education teams.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u175	If I were to follow Mrs Lucas' reasoning that taking part in an intake interview and in a study-choice check would be conditional on a certain right, then I assume that all this should be registered centrally, otherwise you will never be able to formally assess whether someone can invoke a particular right. Does the Minister agree with me that this would create a considerable additional administrative burden?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u176	I have no idea whether this should be central, but that would create an additional burden for the institution. It will then have to keep up with that. I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u177	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u178	I will deal with the questions about the elaboration of the right of admission. Many amendments have been tabled on this subject. When are there any reasons to select students? Training capacity or the labour market perspective may be a reason. This makes it possible for training courses to have a maximum number of places. In these cases, the present legislative proposal stipulates that the institution shall allocate the places available on the basis of non-qualitative criteria. Institutions can do so either by drawing lots or by assigning on the basis of the order of notification. In any case, allocation may not be made on the basis of motivation or figures obtained. On the one hand, Mrs Lucas has tabled an amendment on this subject. It calls for a decentralised selection. This is the system used in higher education. On the other hand, Mrs Siderius, who, in fact, finds any selection undesirable. Even if there are fewer internships, she feels that everyone should be admitted. The position I'm taking is in the middle. I think it is important that students are trained for a job and have a job opportunity. That's the point. I heard Mr. Rog say that too. I also think it is important for them to be able to find an internship during their training courses. Mrs Jadnansing is one of the captains in this Chamber. If there are no internships at all, an institution cannot allow an unlimited number of students. It's very annoying, but it may be that you can't let everyone into your institution. You have to find a way to do it responsibly. I think it is important that every prospective student with the right pre-school education has an equal opportunity to prove himself in an MBO programme. That is certainly true, as I say once again, because a large part of this group is still subject to learning or qualification. They also often live at home, which makes an alternative to an institution that is farther away less possible. I think it is important that an institution should have responsibility for guiding a student to a diploma. I do not think that an institution does a student well if it only accepts the student because it wants to, when it knows that there is no work in the region and there are no internships. We do not therefore choose qualitative criteria, as is the case in higher education. Of the MBO population, a large group, over 30%, is still subject to learning and qualification. We also want to know how this works in higher education. This is because there are advantages and disadvantages in view of the whole debate on equal opportunities. So let's see how things are going there first. I think it's a step too far for the MBO right now. After all, it could mean that parents who are good could invest extra in training, guidance and whatever, and thus make access to the youth group and the more vulnerable group more unequal. In addition to training related to placements, there are training courses which are subject to specific requirements. There is another agreement with higher education. If you want to do the silversmith training, you need a fine motor skills. If you want to do the dance education, you need a good physical condition. I say to Mr Beertema: these are other demands than good language management, which we ask of all the MBOs. These are specific training courses which are the same as those in higher education which we will adopt under ministerial regulations. Afterwards, these courses can publish their own rules with a selection procedure. In higher education these are now 30 courses. For the MBO I expect a similar number, and that is what I am aiming for. On this point, Mrs Lucas has tabled a number of amendments. By the Lucas amendment to item No. 8 a student can rely on the right of admission only if he or she has registered before the legal deadline. She already talked about that. I do not recommend the amendment to item No. 8 for the reason I have just given, namely that I think it is important that everyone in that large group of learning and qualification persons should have the right to be admitted with the right prior training. At the same time, I would point out that the failure to register in good time also has consequences, i.e. no right to study advice. There is also a risk that the training is already full and this is detrimental to selection on the basis of lottery or registration order. However, I do believe that every young person with VMBO training should be given the opportunity to obtain his initial qualification. The registration date must not stand in the way of that. I also draw the comparison with other sectors, not only with higher education but also with secondary education. I judge the MBO on its own merits. In her amendment to item No. 9 states that a school can decide to admit a student even without participating in the above activities, but that a student cannot rely on the right of admission. That is in fact the same argument. Students who apply for this training in advance if there is a capacity limitation or oversubscription know that they have much less or no chance of getting into the training of their first choice. I have consulted with the institutions on the pros and cons of a mandatory intake and they find it undesirable to impose an intake on this group of students. I therefore also advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 10 is about abuse by students who register and about the possibility of refusing students if there is evidence that a student in the previous year was only enrolled to receive study funding. I reject the amendment, not so much because I disagree with it in substance, but for more formal reasons. Admission is about the relationship between the school and the student. For fraud involving student funding, it is the relationship between the government and the student. We have already taken a great many measures to this end. There is currently a national investigation into the misuse of student funding in the MBO and the Court will soon receive the data on this. This will enable us to see what is the best approach to the abuse. We already have a lot of measures through the vsv policy to write out students who are really abusing student funding or who are not showing up. If they don't report, the school will have to pass it on to the RMC region. For those very conscious fraudsters, measures can be taken within the framework of the vsv policy, but also in the event of fraud in writing can be reported. I note then that the amendment as it stands also restricts admission for a much wider group, namely any non-qualified student who has been enrolled in vocational training at a time in the last three years, any student who is still subject to qualification who has once received negative binding study advice, and, as is already the case in the legislative proposal, a student who has been enrolled in vocational training for six years or more without obtaining a diploma, and for whom less than three years of study have passed since the last day of registration. The question is whether the applicant really means to include those first two elements. I'd find that undesirable. Apart from that, I believe that we should tackle student funding fraud and that it is never permissible for students to register only in order to obtain an I.V. card or study funding. However, we have other ways of doing that, and we are working hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u179	Are you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u180	Mrs Lucas has tabled another amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u181	You will have the opportunity to make a comment, Mrs Lucas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u182	I would like to move on to the amendment to item No. 11, on decentralised selection and comparison with higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u183	Minister, before you continue, I would like to say something. Mrs Lucas, we have just agreed that you will have the opportunity to interrupt. I know this is about your amendments, but you will still have every opportunity to deal with them. I really want to do the meeting by section. That's how we agreed to it at first. The same goes for everyone, including you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u184	When my amendments are discussed, is it weird that I cannot respond directly to them? Otherwise, it will be a very strange debate if I have to refer to my various amendments. It just seems more logical to me to have this debate in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u185	So far it has been fine; Mr Van Meenen's amendment was also discussed in this way. But if you only want to deal with this amendment, I will give you the opportunity to do so, otherwise we will discuss it again. Go ahead, Mrs. Lucas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. 10 is precisely meant to give the school that opportunity. A student who cheated on student funding in the previous year cannot rely on his right of admission and do not just register again in the following year to do so again. I agree with the Minister that this is basically a matter between the government and the student, because that money must indeed be recovered. However, I also believe that the school should have the opportunity to refuse a student who has done such a thing if there is no evidence that he is suddenly motivated and really wants to start training. Now the school doesn't have that grounds for refusal, which means that a student can sign up for such an education for up to three years. I just think that's really weird. If the fraud has been proven, we must enable the school to refuse the student for the following year. The school does not have to do so if it is convinced that the student wants to start the training or is motivated. I think the school should be able to do this. That is the purpose of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u187	This doesn't change my judgment. This issue is between the government and the student, who has to repay unjustly received study funding. In doing so, a declaration of falsehood may be made in writing. I do not think that this should be a ground for refusal of admission. Moreover, there is no such thing in higher education, although we are stepping up the fight against fraud. If there's any reason for that, I'd be happy to do the same in the MBO. There is now an investigation into improper use and fraud involving student funding in the MBO. This summer, the Chamber will have the results. By that time, I would like to look at what we have to do on the basis of this data to deal with students who are wrongly enrolled. Mrs Lucas and I do not think there is any disagreement about this. However, it is a question of ensuring that this is done in a legally sound manner. I do not recommend the amendment to item No. 11 on decentralised selection. I have said before that the MBO is a truly different sector from higher vocational education. I also think that we should learn from decentralised selection in higher vocational education. For this group, with a large amount of learners, I don't want to do this immediately. I think that's too vulnerable. The amendment in part No. 13 from Mrs Siderius wants the draw to be deleted if there are more applications. That's all over the other side: that's how everyone gets in. Not only does that seem undesirable to me, but it is also quite impossible to do so. It means that all students should actually be given a place, including those who come in later and even if there are not enough internships. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u188	The Minister did not read my amendment properly. It is not a question of removing the draw, but of preferential treatment for students applying before 1 April. Now there is a difference in the draw if students have applied before 1 April; they then benefit from it. When applying after 1 April, students have a disadvantage in the draw. We don't think that's fair. It is possible that students will not be able to participate in the draw at all, which means that they will be without chance in advance. Just students who make their choice a little later, they instromers and you name it, do not register until after 1 April. They often have no chance at all of being included. The fact that we disagree about whether or not lottery should take place is a separate matter from this. This is about justice when lottery does take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u189	It doesn't really matter, 'cause you're gonna have to draw lots later. This is, in turn, more detrimental to those who did register early, perhaps to be excluded and then to have sufficient time to look at another training. That seems to me to be an annoying consequence, perhaps a punishment, for those who follow the proper procedures. I'll come to Mrs Lucas who says you have to set a standard. The norm is that you have to register on time. Then the draw takes place. If you are unsuspectingly excluded, you still have enough time to, with sufficient preparation, look for another study of your desire. I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u190	I do not agree with that at all. It claims that the login date is also the date of draw. If you sign up later, these are often the students, the minister knows that too, who have more bumps towards the mbo. We are blocking access to such training in advance for those who need more support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u191	That is a conclusion that is being drawn far too quickly. Those who are less motivated may also be the ones who come forward later. We cannot organize the ideal situation for every student to attend the study of his or her preference. At the same time, if we want an internship guarantee, if young people do not all end up in youth unemployment after a study and if we have a good match with the regional labour market, we sometimes have to draw lots. It must still be workable for an institution or school. For students it must be so that once you are excluded, it is not the end of June and everywhere the summer vacation starts, because then you really are lagging behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u192	The minister said at the beginning of her block that this bill is intended to give everyone an equal chance to prove themselves in the MBO. With these statements and this reaction to this amendment, I have to conclude that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u193	I do not agree with this point at all. It's about keeping things viable. Sometimes you have to row with the belts you have. Again, if there are more students than places, you'll have to do something to select students. It is desirable to do so for this group with as little selection as possible and with as much chance as possible, even if you are excluded, to make a good choice. I do not hear any better alternatives to this. Mrs Siderius also asked if I am prepared to work on the obligation to send a letter of rejection. In fact, a letter of rejection must now be written to students if they are not admitted. A refusal of admission really concerns an official decision and should therefore also be made in writing. I share with Mrs Siderius that there is still much to improve. Following the introduction of this bill, a rejection must also take place in writing. Mr Bishop asked about the right of admission. He asked whether an educational contract could also be dissolved in the case of specific training, in particular in the case of the exception due to psychological or physical limitations. I have already said a few things about the physical elements that you need to have in order to receive an education. This may also be the case in personality disorders. Even then, there must be an opportunity, after careful consideration, to dissolve an educational agreement or refuse a student access to a specific programme. In Article 8.7.1b we have established that this is in line with Article 7.42a of the WHW, that these are special cases, after the opinion of the Examination Board and after careful consideration of the interests involved. Only then can an educational contract be dissolved or access to specific training refused. This can never be done in general terms for all training courses, but only for specific training. It can happen, for example, if there are suspicions that someone is not good with young children. This means that there can be a limitation for certain training courses or that additional special requirements can be imposed. I have just given examples of this, and it is a question of training as a silversmith or a dance education. I should like to ask about the binding study opinion. There too, I would like to start with the setting up of the MBO's own character. As I see the binding study opinion, as I have also described in the explanatory memorandum, it is not just about the binding study opinion, but about 'a study progress report and possibly the termination of a registration'. That's the cup, too. I have heard little about these study progress talks today and a great deal about the BSA, the binding study opinion. I would like to point out that good guidance starts with a study progress interview. This starts with career orientation and guidance (LOB) from vmbo to mbo in a continuous learning line. Students have also indicated that they consider it desirable that there should be a conversation at least once a year and that this should be a discussion of progress. It should discuss how the student is doing, what is going well, what can be done better, whether the study meets the expectations and whether the internship is going well. In this sense, this conversation is a logical continuation of the continuous learning line, of the LOB activities, to reflect on the choice of study and the future. I agree with Mrs Lucas and Mrs Jadnansing. So that's what it all starts with. This means that it is basically a conversation as it should always be, as part of the LOB. Mrs Jadnanansing cited the BVMBO, who would have said that it would involve a lot of extra work. I cannot imagine that Mrs Jadnansing would not want an institution to have a conversation with a student once a year about how it goes in general. It's not that much to ask. So maybe I should explain it better. I'd like to talk to BVMBO about that. However, I cannot imagine that there is the problem. There may, of course, be situations where an institution or a teaching team sees that the study progress is so slow that it is questionable whether the student is able to successfully complete this training. Then there may be a binding study opinion. I would add that I understand that everyone in all the examples mentioned here has the framework of higher education in their head, but this really is a different matter as far as I am concerned. It is a conversation in which students are given the opportunity and a time to improve. I agree with Mr Van Meenen that if a student is delayed or if things are not going well, you will see what is going on. Then you see if extra help is needed or if another study might be better. That's what it all starts with. Only in the absence of overall study results can a negative binding study advice be given to the student to choose another course. I say to Mr Grashoff that this is not an advice to be sent out of the way. It can't be. However, it may be advised to choose another course. This is a decision of the institution in which the education teams have an important part to play. In the Members' Statute, the institution shall record the study claims to be obtained. All this must be done carefully. Students subject to qualification shall retain their right of entry to another training subject to conditions. You have the membership status, you have the consent of the participation and then you have a decision in individual cases that needs to be made after careful consideration by the education team. Let me not compare it with higher education, but we already have the comparison with entrance training. In doing so, we have a binding study opinion. That's where it works well. There the first experiences of both students and teachers with the results of the study advice are positive. This is evident from an inventory of the MBO Council. There are few negative opinions. Institutions experience a binding study advice as a useful tool to end the registration of students who do not attend the classes or who do not fit in with the course. I have not seen any comments from JOB on this. Provided that we ensure that it is done in a careful manner, and I am happy to be prepared to do so, I think that the binding study advice can be a good solution for the students who are in the wrong training course or from whom the institution is motivated and carefully considered concludes that the chances that they will successfully pass the exam are very low. Mrs Lucas asked if there would be any other elements. Yeah, and I've already gone into that. I refer to good LOB guidance and the internship and learning job offensive with bbl-places that I stimulate and which Mrs Lucas asked for. This is without prejudice to the fact that we are dealing with different groups of students with regard to admission to the MBO. For some it is really important to obtain a starting qualification. The school has a responsibility in that. What if an education doesn't work? What I would find the worst part is that a school would say, "We all don't care, we'll let you cook in your soup for another year and we'll let you muddle" and you'll finally see someone leave without a starting qualification. It is not only the institution's right to give a binding study opinion. It depends on the institution's duty to guide the student well to an exam. Mrs Siderius asked about LOB and vmbo-tl. On this point, an amendment was adopted when a legislative proposal on VMBO was discussed. She asked about a conversation that would take place in June. Those conversations are now ongoing with the VO board and the platform vmbo-t. These discussions are constructive and are mainly about how this can be introduced into the VMBO-TL. In the autumn there will be more to report and the Secretary of State will do so. Mr Rog asked whether the legal status of the student would not be impaired by the BSA. No, I'd honestly say it's getting better. As is the case with admission, it is now also true that an institution can allow a student to terminate the programme without further argument. I rather think that the study progress conference strengthens the student's position. I would also like to mention the possibilities that the institution has for removing students from education on unclear grounds or even after a few weeks. You can do all that now. This course of study therefore offers the students the guarantee of a fair opportunity and a careful evaluation during the first year after registration. As is the case in higher education, there is a need to establish clear rules in advance, but unlike in higher education, the decision cannot be taken on the basis of, for example, the number of credits obtained for large groups. It will always have to be an individual decision. In this way, I think it is a careful way to follow the progress of the study and strengthen the position of the student, who is entitled to the study progress interview, but also does not keep the institution to the impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u194	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mr Grashoff, but I would like to know how much longer the Minister thinks he will need to complete the first deadline. A lot of things have been interrupted, so a lot of things have already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u195	The binding study opinion is actually the key issue and I have three very small questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u196	The Minister makes it clear that the binding study advice in this bill is embedded in a number of things. On its own, that's fine. It's fine that you choose an accompaniment-like setting, that you require a progress interview and that follows a study advice. However, I would like to ask the Minister a few questions on this point. Having heard what the Minister is saying here and knowing the current culture and habits in the MBO, is there any need at all to make that study advice binding? Is there really a need for that? In general, I can assume that it will often still be about minors, so that parents will still play a role when this happens. Is a study opinion not enough? If there is a careful line in the law, why does the Minister make it possible to come up with a binding study advice after four months? Are not due diligence and the term in question contrary to one another?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u197	I have just said to Mr Bishop and Mr Beertema that the school has an important responsibility to accompany that student to a diploma. If, after a few months, you see that it doesn't work out, then the question is how long you let someone muddy, and then you have to say at a much too late stage: too bad, we knew it wouldn't work out for a long time. What I think is very important is that such a decision should be considered and taken extremely carefully. It can't happen because someone's eyes aren't on you or because you're thinking: I thought from the start that student had the wrong education. You can't do that. Nor should it undermine the right of admission. A binding study advice is not a way to send a student away, I say once more. All young people have their right of admission. Also in the event of a binding negative study opinion, the young person in question retains his right to another training, to the same institution or to another institution. The period for which this applies is flexible and lasts four to twelve months after the student has at least received a first chance. After four months, when you find that someone really doesn't fit in with an education, you don't have to wait any longer. If an institution hesitates, it must, of course, make good use of that period and perhaps decide only at the end of the first year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u198	On one point, I dare to be sure: it is impossible for God to find out after four months that someone has no chance of training. I just don't believe a damn thing about that. I don't have anything with that term. I think something else is really weird. The MBO works in learning years. What would happen if you came to that conclusion after four months? What does that mean? That the rest of that school year someone is going to sit at home, perhaps even in spite of a full or partial compulsory education? I can't imagine. What I can imagine is to do it at the end of the school year, regardless of whether it should be binding. The Minister suggests that there would be guidance to another training. That is neither in her law nor in her explanatory statement. I just checked it out. It is simply an end to the agreement and no obligation is imposed on the school to guide the student to a new education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u199	I do not agree with Mr Grashoff. The bill introduces the binding study advice. That must have preceded a progress interview, in which the student discussed what is going well and what is not going well. A binding study opinion may only be taken in conjunction with the entire education team. So it cannot come from one teacher, who says on subjective grounds: I do not like this student. A binding negative study advice must be given in writing, the student may appeal against it and the institution then has an obligation to accompany the student to another education or institution for at least eight weeks at the end of the education agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u200	I think the Minister's story is rather weak. It is said that schools should not undermine the right of admission by a binding negative study advice after four months. What about the supervision of that? How will the Minister ensure that such a binding negative study advice is not abused? In fact, my group sees another problem in this regard, because the obligation to refer the student or to accompany him to another training course is not in the law. It may be that after the eight weeks the school lets go of the student who will still be home. If the Minister is so convinced of this binding negative study advice, she should lay down in the law that the MBO school, for example, will report it to the RMC hotline when the student gets home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u201	We need to compare it to the situation for students now. It is said that I am introducing a binding study opinion. In my opinion, I do exactly the opposite. Now students can not only be refused at the beginning, without a study progress interview, without objective reasons and without written information, but can also be very easily dismissed in the first year. Those rules must be clear and there must be control. This is already happening internally through participation. We have just dealt with the Law on strengthening the administrative power of educational institutions, which strengthens the rights of participation, including in the MBO. The inspection will see to it. We also have the experiences of entrance training, which we must learn from. I see that students, teachers and institutions are positive about this. That makes me think it's justified to do it this way. It is a tightening-up of current practice. It does not mean that an institution is held to keep students who do not progress in any way on the training. Institutions must take into account the personal circumstances of students. If the progress is not sufficient, they cannot say without looking into the student that it has to go somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u202	This is a very strange argument. The Minister says: we have nothing now, we are going to do it now and that is the best way. If the Minister wants this, she must also ensure that it is properly organised. It is not for co-determination councils to go through the files with any binding negative study advice in order to check whether there has been proper action. That is not the role of participation either. My question about compulsory transfer to another training has not been answered. Is it not wise for the Minister to ensure that the student does not disappear completely from the picture after these eight weeks, for example due to a mandatory notification? This certainly applies to those students who still have a qualification requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u203	It's a repeat of moves. The rules need to be clear. Participation should not assess every individual rejection. That is not the intention, of course. However, rules must be laid down for cases where a binding study opinion can be given. This should be included in the Members' Statute and submitted to the Participants' Board for agreement. It is not the case that there can be arbitrariness. I'm gonna say again that the education teams should be involved. There must be a written statement and the student can appeal. We've really built in a lot of safety valves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u204	I have an informative question. No one should draw any conclusions from that. I say this because Mr Van Meenen is standing next to me. During the round table we asked why you need to fill in a binding study advice if there is an educational agreement that we can already arrange a lot. I'd like to hear the Minister's appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u205	Because the education agreements aren't about this. This is a standard agreement which is not in line with the progress of the study and with the obligations that you impose on the institution in certain cases. This also means that the Participants' Council does not have to give its assent. I will come back to your question in a moment, because there are a lot of concepts in the MBO that are close together. However, I believe that this is ultimately the right way to make a proper assessment in a good framework, including the behaviour and efforts of the student. You can't do that with an education agreement. This must be done here, with the conditions I have just mentioned, also taking into account the student's personal situation. Eventually it has to be with an individual judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u206	According to the Minister, is there an inseparable link between the right of admission and the binding study advice? They're in one law, but according to the minister, is that a connection? Why shouldn't there just be a right of admission and perhaps a study advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u207	I have just said that the binding study opinion also upholds the right of admission. A binding study opinion therefore does not undermine the right of admission. At the same time, there should be opportunities for students who are not in the right place, especially if there is a right of admission. I understand that the discussions we have had on higher education are still in the minds of the Members. But I would ask Mr Van Meenen once again not to look too much at higher education, but also to look at the MBO itself and the entrance courses. So what we do here is not identical to what we do in higher education. There one can say: if you haven't reached the number of credits, you just can't go on to the second year. There is no way of doing that here, in this proposal for the MBO. These must be individual decisions, which relate to the whole progress of the study. It has to be about whether the student is really in place there, and also about what that means for education as a whole, for the individual student and for other students. So there is no formal link, because the right of admission is always maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u208	Finally, ask a follow-up question, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u209	Yes, briefly, Mr President, but this is a complicated matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u210	Yes. Still, it can be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u211	Why can't just a study opinion be enough? You could do that, too. The Minister said that institutions can now simply dismiss pupils. I don't know how they can do that. You can find what you want from the system in higher education, but a limit of a number of credits is in any case cliff-and-ready. Isn't the problem with the study advice we're talking about, with regard to the situation in higher education...?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u212	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u213	Sorry, chairman, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u214	But that's why it can't happen here subjectively. It applies here in very special cases. A statute must first be drawn up, the Council of Participants must agree to it, and it must be discussed together in an educational team. A reasoned opinion should then be given. So there's a lot of hits in it, so it can't just be a subjective advice. Luckily, it's not possible that once someone gets an "F" for a trade, they say, "We don't want you anymore, and we're gonna kick your ass." Only in very special cases can it be said: we may need to look for another training for you. I do not think that is wrong, as long as it is applied carefully. I'd like to say we're on top of it and monitor it. We can also agree in the code of conduct with the MBO sector on the details and design of the study progress. That is what Mr Grashoff asked for. This can also be about the moment when this conversation is held for different groups of students. I am also very happy to follow when these talks take place in the near future. If we find that four months is too fast, we can always change it if we have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u215	Finalizing, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u216	We give an admission right, so we step away from what's happening now, namely selection at the gate, but we're going to select right after the gate. That's how it keeps feeling to me. After all, you will only be a student who has received negative advice and who has started that training. The Minister talks about looking at the total, involving everything. That sounds very nice on paper, but also has a subjective element in it. I'm really scared that this is just gonna lead to rejection right after the gate. This is simply not something the Minister can reassure me about. I really don't understand this. This is really a horse's drug that's being handed over to the MBO authorities. This will enable them to show everyone who doesn't like it or who doesn't like it. The Minister can't convince me. As far as I am concerned, if this does not happen, approval of this law will be extremely dubious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u217	I would like to go there, but perhaps outside this Chamber, once again with Mr Van Meenen, to make it clear that the right of admission is something else and that we cannot select again on a detour. I would just like to say once more that it is now possible for MBO institutions to remove students from education on unclear grounds, often subjectively. In my view, this proposal is a huge step forward, because we say that there can be situations where it cannot be otherwise, but that must of course be exceptions. As Mr Van Meenen puts it, this could apply to very large groups. As far as I am concerned, that is unacceptable. I am not so afraid of it either, given the guarantees I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u218	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u219	I hope that I have answered Mr Rog's questions adequately with regard to the education agreement and the LOB learning line. Mrs Jadnansing spoke about the fact that some students are getting started later. The MBO institution is not obliged to send students away. Nor is it obliged to give students who need more time or who have slowly started a negative study advice. It really happens in very special exceptional situations. Furthermore, Mrs Jadnanansing asked about the workload for the lecturer. I see it as part of the time of the normal mentor, career and coaching conversations of individual students. In case things go well, you will no longer have to do any administrative work. The administrative burden of this is therefore very limited. Only if it does not go well somewhere should it be recorded in writing. Since I assume that these will be exceptions, I think that is a good thing to live with. I have also replied to the amendment on item No. 12 by Mr Van Meenen, which provides for the removal of the binding study opinion from the law. For the time being, I do not think the arguments put forward by the authors are convincing. This seems undesirable to me. In view of the many questions on this subject, it is perhaps right that I should undertake to put the Chamber on paper again how this binding study advice is being drawn up and what steps it is taking in view of the student's perspective and guarantees. I very much support the fact that whatever we eventually come to, this does happen on the basis of good arguments. I have already discussed the inspection that will monitor and the conceptual framework of Mrs Jadnansing. Mr Bishop also said: they are many concepts. Does this create bureaucratic burdens? I think it is fine to go through that again and create a sort of glossary or glossary and to delete what is double. It is also good to pay attention to this in the context of the major maintenance of the legislation. Then I come to Mr Van Meenen's question about the cascade. That's what we've been talking about. The cascade has just been entered. Let us first look at the grounds for introduction. If there are any negative consequences, I'd be happy to look at them again. Mr Grashoff spoke about the registration of several training courses. I don't want to limit that in advance. He asked if that shouldn't be arranged by law. I believe that, where appropriate, it can also be done under ministerial arrangements. If there is a need for a restriction, this can always be done. I would like to point out that, in this case, a student may still change his choice after his application. The same applies to higher education. Finally, I would like to return to the administrative burden. In the beginning, I went into this in detail. I have indicated in the various sections where there is or is not administrative burden, where these are at the top of the current burden and whether they can be justified on the basis of some of the objectives on which we agree. Think of better coordination between sectors, better flow and transfer from vo to mbo, good career guidance and so on. I think the administrative burden isn't so bad. I have also indicated this in the legislative proposal, but I see that there are still hesitations. Mrs Lucas and Mr Rog in particular have indicated that they want an opinion from Actal. I dare say so, with the compliments Actal has recently given us. I've got one, but I've got one. This means that this bill is very likely not to be finalised before the recess. And that means that the First Chamber won't guarantee me that she'll finish it by Christmas. Any delay means that the entry date with an early registration on 1 April or 1 May from the 2017/018 academic year becomes uncertain. The odds are getting smaller and smaller. Suppose I ask Actal to do some research. I expect the result to reach me in the recess. I will send that to the Chamber in the recess, with a reaction from me. I am talking about the binding study advice "How does that work, what steps can be considered from the student's perspective? I just promised to inform the Chamber. I would ask the House to conclude this debate as soon as possible after the recess. Each week later, the chances of timely introduction are reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u220	Actually, that's an order proposal from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u221	I had already noted on the binding study opinion that the Minister said that we should make the assessment on the basis of good arguments. That's how I'm in the debate. I opened up. I've asked a lot of questions. I thank the Minister for the many enlightening answers and for the letter we are still receiving. However, I attach great importance to this Actal study in order to gain further insight into the administrative burden through such reliable and independent research. If the Minister says she is prepared to do so, I am very pleased. As far as I am concerned, however, you are dealing with the agenda, and we are taking up the suggestion that after that examination we should keep the second term as soon as possible and, if possible, in the first week following the recess. The latter is a second order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u222	We also indicated at the procedural meeting that we would like to receive the Actal report before we deal with this bill. I think it's a good proposal. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u223	I'm having a little trouble with it, because we're gonna postpone this bill for two months. I understood at the procedural meeting that it is quite possible to complete the Actal report within a few weeks. Apparently the Minister has already received comments from Actal, I note from her words. For a letter on the binding study advice, I think two weeks would be enough. I'd say we'll just finish today. We all know how we stand in it and there will be additional information. The most we can do is postpone the votes. For me, it doesn't suddenly have to move two and a half months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u224	However, I am very concerned about the date of introduction. With a little delay I do not have such a problem in itself, but I think the date of introduction is very important. We've been working on this for a long time. If suddenly that can't start in the next year of study, I'm gonna wonder if it's worth it. I therefore feel a little in favour of Mr Van Meenen's proposal, in which we are trying to receive additional information with the greatest urgency. If necessary, we can postpone the votes until 9 July or so. Then we'll make sure we finish it before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u225	So you do feel a little in favour of Mr Van Meenen's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u226	If I understand correctly, the Minister says that if we do the research and have the debate as soon as possible after the recess, that is to say the second term, we will still be on time. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u227	The First Chamber has said that it is still examining all the legislative proposals adopted by the Lower House before the summer recess. So I'm not gonna do that anymore. Whether the proposal will be dealt with in the First Chamber before Christmas depends on the priorities set in the First Chamber. So I don't have that guarantee anymore; that's the problem. I have good hope that I can treat it there before Christmas, but I would add that every day after recess counts. That's the honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u228	Do you support this proposal or not, Mrs Jadnansing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u229	I do think we should settle this as soon as possible. If it's really possible right after the recess so we can settle it, I'll support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u230	I would like to explain one more thing and then the decision is further up to the Chamber. Of course, I can send the letter on the binding study advice within a week; that is not the problem at all. However, I am dependent on Actal for that advice. I believe it would normally take four weeks to get advice. I can ask Actal to do it faster, but the people there have to make those calculations. They compliment us on the way in which we make the calculations, but they are not their calculations. I understand that they must also have a seat in order to adopt a position. So I don't have room for manoeuvre at that point. There are two options. Either we complete this completely and within a week the Chamber will receive the letter on the binding study advice and in the recess the advice of Actal and my reaction to it. Or we do the second term immediately after the recess, when the Chamber has received my response and the advice from Actal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u231	Do you support the proposal to keep the second term immediately after the recess, when that report is available, Mrs Jadnansing? I want to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u232	I'd like to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u233	You do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u234	I support Mr Van Meenen's proposal to try to move Actal to carry out that investigation as a matter of urgency so that we can vote on it on, for example, 8 July, and hopefully not on 9 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u235	If that's possible, that's very nice, but I do take good advice from Actal. If it had to be right after the summer recess, the SGP could live well with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u236	I support the proposal to do it immediately after recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u237	Then there is a large majority for holding a second term preferably right after the recess. The Minister has promised that there will be a report from Actal and that it will be provided with a response. I assume the Chamber will receive the report and the reaction immediately after the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u238	I asked another question about registering the rejections. If I have to wait until the second term after the recess, I don't remember. Is the Minister still able to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u239	Are you doing this in writing or are you doing it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u240	I'll take that. This is part of the whole story about the binding study advice. Or was it about the rejection at the beginning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u241	It's about the numbers and the reasons for rejection. We would like them to be registered by MBO institutions so that we know how big the problems are and so that we can see if the policy is going in the right direction when this law is introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u242	I agree with Mrs Siderius that we need to know in broad terms how this is going to be done, but that too must be done in reasonable terms, otherwise it will lead to an increase in administrative burdens. The more you want to split up, the more there will be. You can do that the way you do it with an evaluation. You can then check whether you are holding a sample or whether you are having an investigation into the rejections and the arguments that have been used for them. Of course, I would also like to know basically what the reasons are, but I am not here to say exactly how we are going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u243	Finally, Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u244	The Minister said today that every student receives a rejection letter or a written rejection. How much trouble is it going to have to tarnish for a while how many of them are there? I do not think that is the administrative burden on which Mr Rog is at stake. That doesn't have to be so hard. If the Minister does not agree to that, that is fine, but I will come up with a motion in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u245	That's your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u246	In my view, the Minister has not yet answered one question. That question concerns sanctions against the institutions which do not comply with the law. I don't think that came back in the answer, or I missed it. I also have a question on the ministerial arrangement in response to the Minister's reply. I was particularly concerned with restrictions on specific training. They can be dealt with at ministerial level. Isn't it more logical to do that in an AMvB with veil, given the essence of the law? With this you have a clearer guarantee and more involvement of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u247	Can the Minister briefly comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u248	With regard to the first question, the inspection supervises it. This is no different than for all other tasks that MBO settings have. The inspection can indicate that they are not fulfilling the task properly and that they need to improve it. In the end, there are far-reaching sanctions. This fits in with the regular supervision of the inspection. With regard to the second question, I am not ruling it out. In my opinion, the ministerial arrangement is appropriate here. What exactly would Mr Grashoff like to see discussed in the AMvB rather than in the ministerial arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u249	The same, but then there is involvement from the Chamber as co-legislator. I do not think that is the case with a ministerial arrangement, if I am right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u250	No, but it is an implementation aspect which, in my opinion, is also well suited to a ministerial arrangement. Let's see how it goes in second term, then I'll go into that in the letter. I believe that we should not discuss any more AMvBs than we need, because it all results in delays in the implementation of the policy. If there's just clarity and we have enough confidence that it's going well, I'd rather do it with a ministerial arrangement. I do not see the substantive argument for an AMvB as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u251	If you say that you will return to it in your letter, that is a good opportunity for Members of Parliament to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-12.u252	The second deadline will be scheduled immediately after the recess. I thank the Minister.
