ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-5.u1	I ask the Members to stand up. On 9 June last, at the age of 80, Madeleen Leyten-de Wijkerslooth de Weerdesteyn, former senator for the Christian-Democratic Appèl, died. She was a member of the First Chamber from 16 September 1980 to 1 October 1987. Judith Juliëtte Madeleine Sophie de Wijkerslooth de Weerdesteyn was born on 29 September 1935 in Zwolle. After completing the primary school in The Hague and the gymnasium in Maastricht, she studied Dutch law at the Catholic University of Nijmegen. In 1959 she graduated and became a member of the Catholic People's Party. Ms Leyten-de Wijkerslooth began her active life as assistant griffin of the House of Representatives. In 1970 she was appointed a member of the Provincial States of North Brabant. This marked an era of more than twenty years of active engagement with her party. Ms Leyten-de Wijkerslooth was a member of the Executive Board and later vice-president of the KVP. She was an undisputed pillar in the development of the CDA and played a special role in the Pepe Committee of the CVP: a group of seven leading CVPs that would accelerate the growth of the CDA. Mrs Leyten-de Wijkerslooth preferred to develop her political talent behind the scenes. She had been very capable of working for the scenes, but a role in the political background enabled her to be there for her family and family and to engage in various social activities. Mrs Leyten-de Wijkerslooth preferred the possibility of setting her own priorities over, for example, the office of Minister of Justice. "The most requested woman in The Hague said no again..." so the Volkskrant once headlined. In 1975 Mrs Leyten-de Wijkerslooth opposed an emancipation campaign aimed only at working outside the home and asked for re-evaluation for housewives and for women who volunteered. A truly free choice for women meant that they also had to be able to choose to spend their talents on their families and their immediate surroundings. She developed, sharp and objective views on political and social issues, making Ms Leyten-de Wijkerslooth a highly sought after advisor to CDA executives. In 1980, Mrs Leyten-de Wijkerslooth was elected to the Upper House. Here she focused on Justice, Constitutional Affairs and Home Affairs. For eight years, she was chairman of the Permanent Commission for Justice. The examination of legislative proposals always provided for sharp legal analyses, underlining the role of the First Chamber in monitoring the quality of legislation. Mrs Leyten-de Wijkerslooth gave her maiden speech in the treatment of the Law of Abruption pregnancy, a political subject that has been heavily fought for years. In the debate she argued that the role of the government is substantially different from that of the churches. As a result, she considered the responsibility of a politician, including a Christian politician, to be different from the mission he places himself in his personal life. Mrs Leyten-de Wijkerslooth said that abortion provocatus was not only a question of ethics but also of law and that it was necessary to seek the best possible synthesis between the absolute criterion of legal protection of unborn life and the relative criterion of the capacity of an individual woman in need. Mrs Leyten-de Wijkerslooth was known in this house as a very accessible and approachable person. She was a mundane person who managed to connect people both to herself and to each other. After her farewell to the First Chamber in 1987, Mrs Leyten-de Wijkerslooth was appointed a member of the Council of State. Here she was a member of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Welfare, Health and Culture. In the early 1990s, she was a member of the Steenkamp Commission, which set out the basic principles for the CDA for the 1992 elections. During her life, Mrs Leyten-de Wijkerslooth held many administrative positions, both in civil society and in business. For example, she was Commissioner of the Dutch Railways and the Bijenkorf and a member of the Advisory Board of the Leiden University Medical Centre and ABN AMRO. In her efforts to use her talents as widely as possible, she has clearly succeeded. Up to a high age, she continued to maintain contacts with former senators and other colleagues who have held state positions. Mrs Leyten-de Wijkerslooth de Weerdesteyn was Commander in the Order of Orange-Nassau. May our respect for her person and her merits for our parliamentary democracy be to support her family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
