ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. The general consultation of real estate was mainly about Eygelshoven and about the planned decision, and then the decision of the minister to transfer the functions and the people who are there to Utrecht. It seems as if all roads now lead to Utrecht, as I said in the debate, as a kind of super-efficiency strike, where we are going to accommodate everything that is supportive of the Defence Department. However, this is in flagrant contradiction with a number of previous commitments and political promises. That is why I have prepared a motion with Mrs Günal-Gezer of the Labour Party. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of Defence has decided to move the Financial Service Centre (FSC) from Eygelshoven to the Kromhoutkazerne in Utrecht;]] [[Considering that in 2006 the government consciously chose South Limburg as the location for the then Central Payment Office of Defence and when establishing the Financial Administration and Management Office (FABK) in 2013 it opted for a "natural cut', in particular the tasks that do not require physical customer contacts, would remain in Eygelshoven or in the vicinity;]] [[noting that the financial savings of the relocation are low and play a secondary role in decision-making;]] [[noting that the region in Limburg has offered alternative office locations for Eygelshoven;]] [[noting that the participation committee of the FSC is against the move and has offered a petition to the Lower House on behalf of almost all the staff;]] [[noting that since the arrival of the Rutte II cabinet, the Defense has lifted no less than 378 posts in or relocated from Limburg;]] [[Whereas the relocation of the FSC from South Limburg is contrary to previous commitments to the region and to the Chamber, as well as to the motion by Mr Albert de Vries and others. (Roompiece 31490, No. 108);]] [[calls on the Government to rethink the decision to relocate the FSC to the Kromhoutkazerne and to consult the region in Limburg on possible alternative locations for the FSC in South Limburg and not to take irreversible decisions before informing the Chamber of possible alternatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops and Mr Günal-Gezer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33763-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The decision of Defense to transfer the Financial Service Centre from Eygelshoven to Utrecht has led to much incomprehension and uncertainty among the employees involved and in the region. Both the region and the people concerned, as well as the PvdA Group, are not convinced of the usefulness and necessity of this relocation. We very much appreciate the fact that the Minister has been to work in the region over the past week and has spoken with directors and staff. Nevertheless, there is the fact that last Friday in Provincial States of Limburg a motion was unanimously adopted calling on the College of Deputy States to make the most of their efforts and in consultation with Defence to maintain the Financial Service Centre for Eygelshoven. I would like to ask the Minister how she appreciates the motion adopted by the Provincial States, in the light of the constructive discussions she had in the region last Monday. We have indeed co-signed Mr Knops' motion because we believe that this decision should be re-examined once again, in good consultation with the region, and that it should be discussed with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are now discussing the Financial Service Centre. I have received with great interest the petition of the employees of the FSC here in the Chamber. I read the petition, too. Nevertheless, the VVD Group considers that the Minister and its staff have taken the utmost care in the procedure followed. That's all that could be done. This applies both to the targeted research and to the explanation to the employees. The minister himself travelled to Heerlen and spoke with a number of staff. Not all employees have chosen to come to Heerlen. The VVD Group also notes that there will be replacement employment in Limburg. There are even 100 additional jobs for the FSC in Limburg. Although the VVD Group also notes that these jobs cannot provide relief to all employees in Eygelshoven, the Minister has repeatedly confirmed that the maximum will be done to give these employees a place within the defence organisation. The VVD Group insists that we do not misrepresent things as Chamber. At least we as a group do not want that. We should not pretend that Eygelshoven remains open and then it closes after the elections. We consider it highly desirable, within the framework of the organisation of defence, to concentrate on this. That organisation will be better and the financial service centre will be better. That shouldn't be in multiple places. We are therefore in favour of this choice as a VVD and will therefore vote against Mr Knops and Mrs Günal-Gezer's motion. The VVD is proud that there will be extra employment in South Limburg. I say that with all due respect to the authors of this motion, but sometimes we simply disagree in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u4	A brief question from Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u5	There is a difference of opinion, but on good grounds. I just heard Mr Teeven talk about a careful process. Now we have discussed this in the debate, and there have been a number of elements and phases in that process, which have not been very careful at all. This applies to matters between the Minister and the Chamber, which the Minister also acknowledged. I would not have started if Mr Teeven had not said that everything had gone so well, but also in terms of participation. A number of steps have really been skipped and that process has not gone through so carefully. On what basis does Mr Teeven base his opinion that there would have been care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u6	The VVD Group looks at how the overall process has gone. If there are gaps in the process somewhere and they will be repaired later, then you have to admit to the Minister that she has repaired them to the maximum. She held consultations in Kerkrade on 7 November, she went to the mayor of Kerkrade, she spoke in Heerlen with employees, albeit not with all 51 employees, but with many employees, with a large number of employees who did come to Heerlen. My colleague, Mr Vuijk, has already noted this in a general discussion with Mr Knops. We are now saying, overlooking everything, that you should not make the appearance in the Chamber that Eygelshoven will remain open after a motion has been tabled, while you know that it will be said after the formation of the cabinet: it is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u7	I assume this has been discussed in general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u8	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u9	Then we're not gonna do that again, this is a VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u10	No, Mr. Chairman, but I'm allowed to respond in two. I won't ask for any more of your time. Mr Teeven talks about appearances. That's what he said in his first term. He's suggesting that I move if and then do something else with that motion. That is not the case. We simply do not want this decision to be taken on the basis of the Minister's argument, not now, nor after the elections. I'd like to make that right. Perhaps Mr Teven has other past experiences, but I do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u11	I would just like to respond briefly to what Mr Knops of the CDA Group said. He has every right to take that position, but we do not think that you should pretend that the situation in Limburg is that it remains open for a while. As a party, we prefer to say it bluntly. We're just saying what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you. I'll see if the minister can respond immediately. That's the case. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: a decision to move is almost always difficult. I have rarely announced a move or reorganisation, and so have my predecessors, which did not include a huge story and which seemed to justify many arguments in order, for example, not to allow something to go through. A move or reorganisation always has an impact on the lives of the employees. I went to Kerkrade myself for a reason to speak with the mayor, the governor, the deputy and as many employees of the FSC as possible. At that time it became clear to me that we are dealing with 35 different people with different views and in different situations. This also applies, of course, to the organisation as a whole. Defense has 60,000 employees, military and civilians. Actually, no situation there is the same. I received a letter from a staff member that day. Mr President, I am taking a little more time than usual. She had started with the Defense Department in 1987 and she has experienced several personnel changes and endured major relocations. Those changes didn't exactly put her in her cold clothes. She was emotional in the conversation with me. Of course I understand that this move is not helping her and that this really affects her. I have an eye for that, I say to Mr Knops. I have a clear eye for that. I spoke with her last week, but also with others, and I said that no one is left to their fate. This applies regardless of whether one moves to Utrecht or not. There's a bunch of co-workers coming with us. They've already indicated that. There are a number of employees who have already applied to the Americans. And of course there are a number of employees who say: I want to go outside now. They are accompanied from work to work. Measures are being taken. Customized solutions are being sought, with participation and with the Centrale of Public Staff. And the region was also very involved. Of course there may be differences of opinion, but there is also respect and understanding for each other's interests. The region has clearly indicated that there is a willingness to look at the employees who will soon need extra support in, for example, guiding work to work. I have already said in the Chamber that I also attach great importance to the presence of Defence in the province of Limburg. We're still in there. It's not like we're out of Limburg now. The FSC is not an organisation like the KMS in terms of recognizability of Defence in the region. That organization is very recognizable in society. I have also said that I am committed to maintaining and sketching the perspective for the future. That's why I brought that visit to the campus, for example. I called it the TNO axis. TNO's in there, too. It's interesting for the DOD to see if there's anything we can do with each other. The region has invested heavily in the future, in high-quality employment. I repeat to Mr Teeven: what the region needs and what the staff need is a future perspective. I do not offer that prospect by keeping a location open, desperate or cramped. I also have to deal with the General Court, with the Ministry of Finance and with the business that needs to be in order. So I have to deal with the importance of an integrated, well-functioning payment process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u14	For the Minister, too, this really is a VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u15	Apologies, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u16	Later this day we will deal with the budget. I therefore appeal to the Minister to answer the questions that have been asked and to respond to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u17	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, you're right. I'm getting carried away. But this is my heartfelt concern. This is about people and this is about the region. For both, I agree with the importance of future prospects, but we do not do so by keeping the FSC open. I would therefore advise against Mr Knops' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u18	I could feel that coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u19	Yeah, that's why you were already standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u20	The Minister calls in the General Court and she says she has been in the region. That's very good. She has plans for the future, although they are still very vague. I challenge the Minister to be more specific about this. But in the end, it is not the case that the FSC is a problem that has led to the current problems in the operation of the Defense Department. In fact, the FSC has solved a number of problems from the past. The people there just did a good job. In her letter and in the debate, the Minister simply could not indicate that, for example, there is money to be saved. She just said it's good for business. We're very reasonable. If this had been money-saving and if this were just smart for the defense, we would have immediately supported these proposals, no matter how painful it would be. Accompanying measures are also being taken. But we need to step back now. We have to ask ourselves whether this is necessary. I still think that the Minister is ultimately ignoring the real arguments for doing so. I think this is also the case after the Minister's empathetic response to the people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u21	Let me stress that the people of the FSC worked very hard, even when they were under pressure and the organisation was under pressure. They've done a fantastic job. The FSC is part of a larger payment process. We are now talking about the greater payment process and its integrality. Let me say again: the point is that the payment process is right, is in order and is future-proof. I am concerned about the future prospects for the people we are talking about. I am concerned about the future prospects for the region. I'm gonna fill in on that. I admit that, but I don't do that by keeping the FSC open in Eygelshoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u22	I am always prepared to believe this minister when it comes to the promises that are being made, but it was also this minister who put away promises from her predecessors. There is my suspicion, also because this minister has already moved 378 jobs from Limburg in her day at least. There are still a number of NATO in Brunssum, but there are almost no more pure Dutch defence bases. So let us not evoke the idea that Limburg has got off very well, because she has paid a very high price over the last four years. In that light, I have tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u23	I would like to give some thought to the future perspective of Defence in the province of Limburg. I went to the campus for a reason, I am not looking at this TNO axis for nothing, we are not for nothing day in, that perhaps not day in, day out, but at least month in, month out, working on our interests when it comes to securing NATO's presence in Limburg. None of that is self-evident. I have problems, including in Limburg, with, for example, the AWACS and the noise pollution. For this too, NATO sometimes wonders whether they are still welcome. It is the total picture that every day is looked at and puzzled with. I attach great importance to the future prospects of Defence in the province of Limburg. I'm going to fill that in, but not by keeping a location open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-4.u24	This brings us to the end of this VAO. We shall vote on the motion tabled next Tuesday.
