ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u1	I welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. She is not only present at this VAO. I understand that she will remain in the vote for the rest of the evening. I would like to thank her very much for that. I would be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Miltenburg on behalf of the VVD Group. I would ask those colleagues who were not involved in the VAO to continue their discussions elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u2	Mr. Chairman. Allow me to begin by saying that I myself think it is quite symbolic that the last motion that will be tabled in this parliamentary year by all my fellow Members will be tabled by me. That makes me feel special. However, that is not what I am standing here for. I am standing here because this week we had an extensive exchange of views with the Minister on the subsidy she has provided to the Christian gay organisation Hart van Homos. I note that no one in this Chamber believes that Christian lht young people should be left to their fate. I'm sure the VVD doesn't think so. The question is, however, who should finance this aid, the Empire or their church. Because the aid provided by Hart van Homo's is not in the spirit of the principle of equality as described in the Constitution, the VVD believes that the grant should be withdrawn immediately. My group therefore accepts the possible financial consequences, although of course it does not do so wholeheartedly. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the award of a grant also supports the conduct, objective and vision of the subsidised organisation or is in any case not rejected by the grantor;]] [[Whereas the vision document, which is the basis of all the activities of Hart van Homo's, states, inter alia, that the desire of another of the same sex is sinful;]] [[considers that the government should treat and treat homosexuals and heterosexuals equally;]] [[noting that the vision of Heart of Homo's is not in the spirit of the principle of equality as described in the Constitution;]] [[calls on the government to stop the subsidy relationship with Hart van Homo's immediately and to inform the Chamber accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Miltenburg, Mr Yücel and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-249]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to add one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Hart van Homo's organisation may change the level of funding it has received for acceptance and emancipation rather than initially envisaged by the Ministry;]] [[considers that it should be clear to the Chamber which organisation is currently receiving a subsidy to promote acceptance and emancipation;]] [[calls on the Government to provide an overview of all organisations currently receiving grants and to send this overview to the Chamber before the general consultation on 14 September 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-250]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u4	Mr. Chairman. We had a nice and intense debate yesterday about the subsidy to Hart for Homo's. That was in fact about freedom of religion and freedom for lht'ers, in any community. The PvdA stands for that freedom of religion, and also for the freedom and equality of every lhbt, regardless of background and religion. You must be able to be who you are and have the freedom to love. It should also be possible for a person of the same sex to be involved. That freedom is dear to us. The conversation with people from the Hart for Homo's Foundation showed that they are trying to guide young people who struggle with their homosexual feelings and their beliefs from a very strong commitment. I respect the guidance that Hart wants to offer to Gay in this very committed way to these young people. I very much appreciate this great commitment. However, the main message that young people actually get is that they can have homosexual feelings, but they can't actually do it. The PvdA believes that this does not lead to the emancipation of these young people. With this message, according to the PvdA, we do not break taboos in these conservative religious communities. As far as we are concerned, it is not just about making discussion possible, but about making discussion possible to promote the acceptance of homosexuality. To subsidise this organization is to subsidise the status quo. This does not further the emancipation. That is why we have also tabled a motion asking the cabinet to stop the subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u5	This brings to an end the Court's contribution to this report of general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u6	I would like to give the floor to the Minister of OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u7	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, we had a very good debate yesterday. I agree with Mrs. Yücel. Let me say first of all that I agree with the authors of the motion, Mrs Van Miltenburg and others, for a very, very large part with regard to the emancipation of lhbt'ers. We are talking about striving for social acceptance from the point of view that everyone should be able to be who he or she is, regardless of sexual orientation. And that is not only about one's own consciousness, but it is also about the ability to express it. At that time, I also assessed Hart van Homo's grant application. If it had said that there was only one way to deal with this, I would have rejected that subsidy. At the time I spoke very extensively not only with Hart van Homo's, but also with the LCC, the umbrella organisation of Christian organizations involved in the emancipation of lhbt'ers. I have done so from the point of view that I am not just a minister for those who share my secular, liberal view, but for everyone in the Netherlands. This is linked to the fact that we have freedom of education. In education, there is a key goal about sexual diversity: we want all schools to pay attention to sexual diversity. But they can do it their own way. So I looked at the grant application on the basis of the principles. The recital mentioned by Mrs Van Miltenburg in her motion, namely that you also approve the course of action, objective and vision, is correct. I didn't read in that grant application that there was only one way. That's what the debate yesterday was about, for a large part, because you can be gay, but you can't express it. I do not share the second recital of the motion, which states that according to these organizations the desire for another of the same sex is sinful. I quote from the most recent information on the website: "Homosexual young people who come to us for support and help may be sure that there are no conditions attached to receiving this support and help." Simply put: young people knocking on our door and now or later being open to a relationship are also welcome. We can find all sorts of things that there are people in the orthodox-Christian corner who ultimately decide for themselves, for their own individual person, that they do not want to engage in a sexual relationship. I have no further judgment as long as they do not impose the same opinion on others. The motion also states that the vision of Hart van Homo's could be contrary to the Constitution. I have serious doubts about this and I very much wonder whether the College of Human Rights would agree with this conclusion. In the motion I am then asked to stop the subsidy relationship immediately and to inform the Chamber accordingly. As I said in the general discussion, I cannot stop this subsidy relationship immediately. That can't be administratively. The grant has been awarded. There are no reasons why they should not comply with the grant conditions. The grant may well be cancelled, but that means that the organisation can appeal and that the funds will eventually have to be paid to them. In view of the considerations in this motion and its relationship with the Constitution, which is far-reaching, I really need to study and perhaps also seek advice on them. I will inform the House of this before the end of the recess. I combine this with my response to the report you receive from the Education Inspectorate, which is investigating the core goal of sexual diversity. Until then, this organization would not be visiting any school anyway, because they are developing teaching materials and activities. First of all, I would ask you to hold this motion because we are still having a debate in September and I will be able to respond at the same time as I respond to the inspection report that is coming soon. If you do not wish to do so, I can only discourage the motion in its present form.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u8	The text of this motion may be part of the Christian faith, but I do not want to participate in it. Yesterday we discussed this in detail. The Minister takes a certain text from the website, but I base myself on the vision on which all work is based. There is this kind of lyrics in there. I am surprised that where the Minister indicated yesterday at the end of her first term that it is possible to stop the subsidy and that there might have been a penalty clause, she is now opening up room. I'm just not okay with that. I want the grant terminated immediately. That's what the motion is asking for. I don't want to be informed until the end of the recess. I want to be informed by means of an accompanying procedure. If that has financial consequences, it is, but the subsidy must simply be stopped. I would like the Minister to carry out this motion on a perimeter basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u9	With all due respect, this isn't about wanting to or not wanting to. I also have to abide by the principles of good governance. A grant has been awarded. It was not awarded directly to Hart van Homo's, but through the LCC, the dome of Christian gay organisations. It was granted a year and a half ago on the basis of a grant application which I note has not changed the application and that there are no reasons to say to the organisation: you do not comply with the grant application. All I can do is inform the organization of the motion of the Chamber. But that's not the same as stopping a grant immediately. I assure you, I'm studying this motion. If she's hired, I'll see how I can handle it. It may also mean that the recipient of the grant objects and appeals against such a decision and that I still have to grant the grant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u10	I repeat, the motion calls for a halt immediately. The fact that other things are getting away from that is then only so, but not for another two months of study, then simply stop immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u11	I hope you will at least give me the opportunity to identify the consequences of the immediate cessation of a subsidy without having good arguments for it under the General Administrative Law and the principles of good administration. I assume that the organisation can object and appeal and that I may have to pay more than I have now paid for the grant. If this motion is adopted, I naturally intend to report the conclusion of this motion to the organisation. I think they will be handled wisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u12	I think this is a really important motion, which is why I am interrupting as a co-subscriber. Something's happening. The ruling that is now being made by the Chamber is not simply made. It has been a struggle; it is a very fundamental decision. It's no use to that organization if it stays in between a little bit. The same applies to the Chamber and the Ministry. The Court's ruling, which is likely to reach a majority at the time of the vote in the light of the signature, is clear. It says that the subsidy must be stopped. We accept the consequences. It is not a question of money; it is a question of whether we are going to subsidise organisations that do not contribute to emancipation policy. That's the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u13	If this motion is adopted, I can ask the organisation to take into account the ruling of the Chamber as long as I am still in the process of stopping this subsidy. It's not like I can send the organization a note tomorrow stating that I'm withdrawing the grant. I am committed to the principles of general regulation and the General Administrative Law and to the general principles of good governance. I can say that at least this organization will not be visiting a school in the near future. I can say that already, because I know that there is still teaching material in development. The effects will therefore be very limited or nil. That is what I can ask, and I will do so if this motion is adopted. Once again, I ask the Chamber to hold the motion, but should it be adopted, I will inform the organisation of the exchange of views that has taken place here and of the ruling of the Chamber. I will let the organisation know that I will consider how to implement the motion within the principles and principles that I have been held as a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u14	What is your verdict on the motion if it is not stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u15	Then I'll keep dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u16	Very briefly, Mrs. Yücel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u17	Should the motion be adopted shortly, the Court's wish is that the subsidy be stopped immediately. The consequences are therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u18	That's how I understood it. In Mrs Dijkstra's motion on item No. 250 is requested by the Government to draw up an overview of all organisations currently receiving grants and to send it to the General Consultation Chamber in September 2016. If the Chamber so wishes, I am prepared to draw up a list of the grants granted. I will see if I can combine that with the response to the inspection report on sexual diversity. We can then discuss this further in the general consultation in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u19	I see that Mr Bishop is at the interrupting microphone, but it was actually the agreement that only those who had tabled motions were allowed to ask a question. I don't see your name under any of the motions, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u20	That's right, but I still need an explanation. The organization Hart for Homo's is put here in advance in the suspect bank, as if they are committing corruption...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u21	Sorry, I'm gonna interrupt you. In my view, there has been sufficient scope for discussion in general consultations. We have made it clear that, for reasons of flexibility, we are giving only the authors of the motions a brief opportunity to put a question. Mrs Dijkstra has tabled a motion, so I will give her the floor briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u22	It's a really short question. The Minister just said that she might be able to send that survey to the Chamber together with the inspection report. I asked if we could get that for the AO. Am I to understand that it is also for the AO Emancipation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u23	Yes, the inspection report and its response will be sent to the Chamber before the end of the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-59.u24	I thank the Minister for OCW for coming to the Chamber and for her willingness to stay here for a while. Moreover, thanks also to the staff of the Registry and the stenographers who now have to work very hard to put things in a voting list and to the messengers who, I believe, walked here ten kilometres today.
