ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. The Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport was already in our midst, but nevertheless I also welcome him. Speaking time is set at four minutes per motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. I want to start with a positive note. In general, the Safe Home Organisations are well able to identify and eliminate acute unsafe situations. Almost everywhere there are well qualified professionals and there is good cooperation with the local field. That's good. Employees of Safe Home work very hard and I have a great deal of respect for that, also for the heavy and often quite responsible work they do. The reason why my group has requested this debate is that it is not all positive at the moment, even more so, there are also great concerns. The inspection report is critical. No organization scored on all parts a sufficient and six out of ten camps with waiting lists; two thirds did not have sufficient insight into the safety of families on the waiting lists. When you hear these numbers, you hold your heart. To be honest, I can't help but think that last year, when I expressed my concern in general consultation, the Secretary of State actually blew it off the table. He would go into the country and talk to Safe Home Organizations. Even then, we were getting signals that there were concerns about the waiting lists. Did the Secretary of State underestimate the problems then? Acute situations are being addressed, but there are also waiting lists. That seems contradictory. Can the Secretary of State rule out the fact that there are no children and families on the waiting lists who are in acute situations? So what exactly is acute? There are two major bottlenecks, so we can read in the reports of the inspections: the resources and the capacity. The inspections show that many organisations have limited financial resources. Where does it go wrong? Do the Safe Home Organisations and the municipalities actually have enough budget? I'd like a response. In addition, the State Secretary speaks of further development and expertise promotion. That is of course very important, but the report also indicates that there are concerns as to whether there is sufficient capacity. This creates risks and waiting lists. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it? What about the issues of domestic violence and abuse of the elderly? These are relatively new areas of attention for these new organisations. Is there sufficient expertise in the field of domestic violence and abuse of the elderly? Can the Secretary of State indicate how these different Safe Home organisations can learn from each other? The police are picking up domestic violence well. I got reactions from people who told me you'd better go to the police if there's something going on than to an institutionalized Safe Home Organization. It has to ask itself whether it is an opinion or a notification and how to deal with it. I'm worried about that. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. We have seen the terrible situation at Pauw how things can go completely wrong with a family, but how can we work together to ensure that signals are passed on much better to the different authorities? They are doing the right thing separately, but we have seen the wrong thing with each other. Today we have to look at what we can do nationally, but we should not suffocate municipalities and Safe Home Organisations in our best intentions either. That's a tough balance. D66 wants us not to lose sight of any child, domestic violence or elder abuse. Anyway, there's too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. We're talking today about Chantal, a mother of two children, who was admitted to the hospital with severe facial injury because her boyfriend assaulted her, which her children witnessed. The hospital reports this to Safe Home. Or we're talking about the police report where Jessica was arrested in a 19-year-old car accident with her boyfriend under the influence. In the hospital, it turns out she's covered in bruises and she has wounds that appear to have been caused by express cigarette butts. Jessica won't tell me where she got it. We do know she has a baby who's with her grandmother at the time. These suspicions of domestic violence or child abuse previously came to the Home Violence Meldpunt or to the Child Abuse Advisor and Contact Point. Since 2015, these organisations have been merged into the organisation Safe Home. These reports came in last week at Safe Home. There are 26 Safe Home Organisations throughout the Netherlands and at all Safe Home Organisations it is a mess. The inspection concludes that no Safe Home Organisation meets the basic conditions. Let me list some problems. The view of the whole family's safety is insufficient. The organisation is not always easily accessible. The organisation is not available 24 hours a day. The investigation starts way too late. Organizations take way too long to pick it up. There are waiting lists. Notifications and advice are not kept up to date. And I also found it significant: there are insufficient financial resources. I then read that the Secretary of State finds the waiting lists unacceptable. I thought: that's good, because I agree, so we totally agree. Then the Secretary of State comes up with a solution in a letter. And what do I read? "This calls for a strong approach that I have initiated together with the VNG and the Minister of V and J." Then I thought, "Here we go again." Where is this powerful approach? I don't know! What does this powerful approach mean? What I do read is that the Secretary of State himself does not take any responsibility. Yeah, I'm sure he'd like to keep his fingers on the wrist. Municipalities themselves have only used additional financial resources to get rid of the waiting lists. I thought, "Get rid of the responsibility!" May I point out to the Secretary of State that he is responsible for this year's cuts, but also for next year's cuts? The Secretary of State expects municipalities, which have already been completely undermined by this cabinet, to solve this themselves. The Chamber is also not informed at all about the waiting lists. We are talking about waiting lists at Safe Home, but there are also other problems. My colleague, Mr Bergkamp, has already pointed that out. If the police report to a Secure Home Organization, you'll have to wait a long time before it gets picked up at all. There's absolutely no idea of that situation. It's only after that that the whole story begins. After that, the children still need help. So those kids are on a waiting list, too. I find it unacceptable that we in the House of Commons are in the dark about those waiting lists. I really want the Secretary of State to promise today that we will get a look at the waiting lists and what is happening to these children and that they will also receive the treatment that is needed. I would very much like to know where the responsibility lies for these two leaders. What do they have to offer Chantal and Jessica more than a powerful approach and another ten fingers on a wrist?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr. Chairman. I quote 'where there is no power of its own, appropriate care must be given'. That is a nice text for such an old-fashioned tile. It is a statement by a U.S. Secretary of State who was made during a general consultation on the decentralisation of youth aid. In the meantime we are already a few months further and we can conclude that children do not always receive appropriate care. Waiting lists arise and for months vulnerable children and families must wait for appropriate help. Vulnerable children, as well as elderly people, women and families, are at risk. The inspection has a devastating criticism of the new approach domestic violence by Safe Home. Safe Home is seriously lacking in help and approach. What an intriguing conclusion! Safe Home Gelderland has a waiting list of 78 cases. Abused children have to wait three months for help there. Is this the 'appropriate care to be offered where there is no own strength'? A 17-year-old boy living at home is becoming increasingly aggressive towards his mother. The other day, he kicked in the door. The mother is desperate, but they come on a waiting list. Although there is violence, the situation did not arise yesterday, so this matter can wait, that is the reasoning. Is this the appropriate care to be taken where there is no power of its own? 80 cases are on hold in Groningen, without contact with the reporter or the family. Unseen, these people are on hold. Is this the appropriate care to be taken where there is no power of its own? A father assaults the mother. The child witnessed it. The father's in jail. This case also ends at the bottom of the pile, because the father temporarily has no access to the victim. Is this the appropriate care to be taken where there is no power of its own? Trust doctors who are only available during office hours; is that the appropriate care to be offered, where there is no power of their own? On top of the waiting lists comes the additional task of tightening up the notification code. We are going to debate this separately, but I would like to know now from the Secretary of State of VWS whether he really thinks that Safe Home can handle this extra task with the current chaos and problems. The Secretary of State calls waiting lists unacceptable. I think so! They are. That is why we received yet another all-come-good note, with all kinds of programs, under a slanted "The basis on order." Oh, oh, oh, everything would get better. This is yet another example of the failure of this Secretary of State's policy, which had to push through all the decentralisations with the corresponding cuts as quickly as possible. Of course, there should have been something in the letter about money. But we're not getting it. To remind the State Secretary of his statements, I had a tile made. I'd like to offer that through you, Mr. Chairman. He can hang it on the toilet, so he can think daily of all those people for whom appropriate care really remains out for months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u5	We will give it an appropriate destination, as you wish. I'm gonna study it first. I call Mrs Van der Burg of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. The VVD stands up for victims. The same applies to victims of domestic violence, which we are talking about today. We also believe that perpetrators should be dealt with. That is why I presented my Children's Abuse Action Plan last year. An important part was about the functioning of Safe Home and how to do things differently. That's what we're talking about today. I will start by mentioning what is going well, and then crack critical notes about what needs to be changed and what needs to be improved in the short term. All interested parties, including the inspection, note that major improvements are needed at Safe Home. Much work has already been done, but much remains to be done. On the positive side, according to the inspection, Safe Home picks up the real emergencies and manages to solve them immediately. This does Safe Home with the other partners, think of the district service, the youth ggz, general practitioners, youth care, but also the police. Also positive is that safe Home is now accessible and available 24/7, while before 1 January 2015 this was only the case during office hours. Unfortunately, outside of office hours too often there is no trust doctor and/or employee available to act. First of all, that really has to change. The Safe Home Departments indicate that this shortage of trust doctors also needs to be resolved nationally. The VVD has already made a point of this and now wants the commitment of the directors that this is in order by September 2016 at the latest by all Safe Home organisations. Secondly, I have already mentioned in my action plan that about half of the notifications at Safe Home are repeated reports and that Safe Home reported children do not follow adequately. That too must change. Safe Home must be responsible for these children and for their safety. In order to fulfil this role, the systems at Safe Home must be harmonised. The different organisations currently operate with no less than five different ICT systems. This makes the exchange of information difficult, if not impossible. Kids disappear from the picture because of this. Ending this is an essential first step towards improving the working methods of Safe Home. This is also noted by the inspection. Can the Secretary of State promise that this will be settled before the end of 2016? In addition, Safe Home will need more monitoring opportunities. Currently Safe Home can keep children up to one year in sight. This is too non-binding and too short for children in a risk situation. I want to know from the Secretary of State if this is settled by the end of 2016. I'd like a commitment. Thirdly, the inspection notes that many Safe Home Organisations do not always have a view on the safety of all members of the family on the waiting list. Colleagues have already said something about it. That is a serious matter. There may be waiting lists, but then there must be a view on the safety of those waiting. Can the Secretary of State promise that this will be in order before the summer of 2016? Fourthly, it appears that the deadlines are not being met. This applies both to the triage and to the start and completion of the research. Can it be promised that this will be greatly improved by the summer of 2016 and will be in order by the end of 2016? Children and adults who are victims of a...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u7	You will proceed to a general conclusion. That is a time to give Mrs Bergkamp the opportunity to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u8	I recognise in the VVD's argument that there are positive and negative points. That's what I've been telling you myself. The inspection report states that acute situations are being addressed, but that a majority of Safe Home Organisations do not have a view on families on the waiting lists. Does the VVD agree with D66 that this could be contradictory? If there is no view of the families on the waiting list, there can be serious situations there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u9	That is why I have also stressed that it is not a bad thing that we have to wait, but that it is a bad thing that we do not know. I agree with your question to the Secretary of State. This was very explicitly reported by the inspection. I can imagine that there is a separate route for the very serious cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u10	I am pleased that Mrs van der Burg has the same interest in the answer to this question. It indicates that improvements are needed in a number of areas. We need more trust doctors. The waiting lists must be eliminated. We need better systems. The inspection report shows that Safe Home is struggling to meet a number of basic conditions. I think we should not drive these organizations crazy. We should also consider whether this might be due to a lack of financial resources. I think that today we need to hear from both leaders whether there really is a lack of finance. If that is the case, she must add butter to the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u11	We had a debate on this in November. I said at the time: if the analysis shows that the problem is there, then we need to talk about it. Then there must be a solution. I want that analysis done first. I also hear a lot that it's in the organization. It depends on how people are trained or able to move forward in certain situations. It's important to first see how it goes this way. 50% of the reports are repeated reports. If they are taken out, are there any waiting lists, do we still have a capacity shortage? What's this all about? I do want to see that analysis. My experience is that a bucket of money isn't the solution. We therefore need to find the good people once again, and this is not always easy with these complex things, as Mrs Bergkamp undoubtedly acknowledges.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u12	When I hear the VVD list some nice points plans, I think: that's nice, but municipalities all need to pump in additional financial resources at the moment. There are waiting lists. That's what the inspection found out. There aren't enough resources. That is also what the inspection has seen. Eventually, the Secretary of State will sweep it all away. I want a little more action from the VVD. Does the VVD also want to say that it recognizes the problems, that it sees that the municipalities are in financial difficulties and that it wants to look at the spring note to see if there are sufficient resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u13	I believe that, even before the inspection report, I have produced an action plan in which I have addressed these problems to a large extent. I said in the debate that if this analysis leads to something happening to the capacity of the staff or to the finances, we must get out of it. But that's not the first step. The first step is analyzing what's going on. It cannot be true, I think, that this is one of the worst things that we have to observe after a year and a half that 50% has been re-reported. I would say: let us remedy this for the disappointment of those children. Then you should see how much capacity we free up if we treat these children right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u14	The analyzer's here. There's a whole stack of 26 inspection reports on my desk. All these reports show that there are insufficient financial resources. We can analyse it here until we have a debate again in a few months' time. This has been pushed forward for a long time. I'm tired of it. I want some action from the VVD group. I want her to say: Mrs Kooiman, we have once been analysed, we see the problem and we are going to ask the govern ment to get real funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u15	Last time, Mrs Kooiman was even more positive about the action plan, but that aside. With the SP, the solution is always more money. We may be able to come up with that, but first I want to analyse the problems. If you have 50% re-notifications after a year and a half, there is another problem and then we have to look at how we can solve it. That is not a reproach to the Safe Home Organisations, because they have a huge task. I have clearly stated in my speech the deadlines within which I expect improvements. I wonder if the rulers will be able to say in their response whether it is in fact in order. I have also read all these underlying reports and found that there are many improvement plans with deadlines that are not too long. For these children, every term is too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u16	That's what I wanted to say. We have the plans, it has already been analysed and we know that children are in trouble while they now have help. That's just an investigation, because after that, they have to go back on a waiting list for treatment. The VVD Group knows this all too well. If you cut 300 million on youth care and 600 million structuralally on the Wmo, you can do ostrich politics here, but then you leave the children in the lurch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u17	The Safe Home Organisations that were in place before 1 January 2015, the Child Abuse Advisory and Contact Point, were only open during office hours. The complaint was that they were largely unavailable and accessible after office hours. At least that is what we have done better now. There's still a few things. Those figures for 50% re-reporting do not relate to the new situation, but to the situation before it. We had to find out through scientific research. We had arranged it so well in the previous system. That is my answer to Mrs Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u18	Mrs Van der Burg resumed her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u19	Children and adults who are victims of domestic violence must be able to trust that after a report there will be real help, which will stop the violence. Therefore, the responsibilities of Safe Home Organisations must be clear. Their role and working methods must be in order. The framework conditions must also be met, such as training, further training, ICT systems and capacity. We shouldn't look away from domestic violence, we should tackle it and help the victims. This means that after this debate we will also talk about the other aspects of that chain. Think of the treatment of the children.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u20	Mrs van der Burg concludes her speech by saying that we must do all kinds of other things afterwards. She mentioned her own plan earlier. We have discussed extensively general registration requirements and a reporting obligation. I hope the VVD agrees with D66 that this discussion should not interfere with this process. It is now important that the Safe Home Organisations can meet a number of basic conditions. We must therefore avoid that this discussion about registration requirements and a reporting obligation is going to'repel' things that my group does not support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u21	We need to get the Safe Home Organizations in order. The debate on tightening up the reporting code is taking place in another debate. Mrs Bergkamp knows how the VVD feels about this. We need to ensure that now the cases of children who are currently being abused at home but are not yet seen. I do not think that we should wait until other matters are completely in order. So we are just going to have this debate, just like the debate on the treatment of children. Because a lot of kids aren't treated after they've been abused. That has to change, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u22	I think what the VVD spokesperson says here is actually irresponsible. It is important that the Safe Home Organisations can now meet the basic conditions. That is also what the inspection has seen. If we say now: the gate opens and everything has to be registered, then you make sure that the haystack gets bigger and the pin is not found. Then there are certainly children going to fall between shore and ship. So I'm asking the VVD for some sense of reality. The VVD spokesperson mentions a long list of points all of which need to be executed. I ask the VVD to step down, because unfortunately there has been even more confusion in the previous debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u23	We can't agree on a point. However, this does not mean that we should not be aware of the aspect of children who remain under the radar. The misery of these children does not come to light, so violence cannot be stopped. This is without prejudice to the need for the Safe Home Organisations to be in order as soon as possible. There is a reason why I have asked for commitments from both heads of government on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u24	Mr. Chairman. This debate is taking place in response to the alarming report of the Youth Inspectorate and the Health Inspectorate. We are now talking about the functioning of Safe Home. We see that this is one of the chain partners where much remains to be done. That's worrying. In response to the report, a director of one of the offices said that the problems are largely due to the huge increase in the number of reports of violence behind the front door. That growth is, he says, again the result of the success of the government campaign "A safe home, isn't that what you're making yourself strong for?'. Also, the number of calls increased due to the reporting code for professionals set in 2013. To this extent, you could almost say that this also means something positive, namely that we signal and act earlier. Well, that's good news, but then the help will have to come after. That's what we're talking about tonight. The fact that there are waiting times at Safe Home is indigestible. In yesterday's letter, the Secretary of State explains how he works on this in the programme, together with the VNG, responsible aldermen and the Empire. He basically assumes the principle that the basis should be in order. Waiting lists need to be eliminated, expertise promotion needs to be further improved and cooperation needs to be improved. With this we must come to a final chain appeal. The inspection has also said that it has seen improvement plans and has received improvement measures. This would show that Safe Home Organisations have started working on it and that all the problems in the first half of 2016 really need to be resolved now. My question is this: how does the Secretary of State monitor this improvement? After all, this requires a great deal of effort, and it really needs to be delivered now. That basis should have been in order and it is not yet in order. How do we know if the waiting lists that are here today have led to incidents or near-incidents? Are those incidents or near-incidents recorded at all? Let me be very clear about this: the PvdA believes that this should be done. Is the Secretary of State satisfied with these reports when it comes to monitoring the entire chain that plays a role in tackling domestic violence? Do we not now see too much control of parts, often also reactive and therefore only after a problem has been identified? How's the connection in the chain? Unfortunately, we are talking about a structural problem and not just about the functioning of Safe Home. The whole chain needs to work well together in this. As far as the PvdA is concerned, this monitoring should be much more structural and continuous. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to that analysis. And is he willing to actually shape this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u25	I hear the spokesperson of the PvdA saying something that I like, namely the fact that you get a little more insight into the whole chain of youth care. I have also argued in my speech that at least you get a look at the question: do children get the help they need? Does the Labour Party agree with the SP that you should look at making the waiting lists of children who receive very intensive help?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u26	I would like to go a step further than Mrs Kooiman has indicated. It is not just about helping children; it is about the whole approach to domestic violence. That is also where the help comes from those children who have been in plight. I agree with her that if children are actually, and thank God, taken out of a serious situation, they should be helped to cope with that trauma. I'll share that. However, I would like to go a step further. I want the whole approach to domestic violence to be monitored. One of the concerns I would like to come back to later is that we focus too much on certain groups that experience violence in dependency relationships. I would also like to receive a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u27	What I am running into is that the Chamber is not, at least not anymore, informed about the waiting lists for intensive assistance. You could indeed involve Child Welfare, even when it comes to domestic violence, as the Labour Party says. Does the Labour Party agree that you should send those waiting lists to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u28	I think that we should not send these waiting lists to the Chamber, but that at least those responsible should have a look at them. In addition, the maximum possible effort should be made to avoid the creation of these waiting lists or to eliminate them as quickly as possible. That goes for Safe Home. In the inspection report, we have seen that this is one of the points of improvement, as well as the waiting lists that arise for any kind of care after an acute situation of domestic violence, which can lead to a delay in the recovery of people who have experienced this violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u29	At least we're getting somewhere now, I guess. I agree with Mrs Volp that there should be a clear view of these situations. However, it is sufficient for the directors to know. I do not want to believe the rulers on their beautiful blue eyes; I want to have an insight into that monitor myself. Is it wise, then, that it should at least be sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u30	I believe that these waiting lists should at least be seen at either the inspections or the directors. It's my job to prevent waiting lists from being created. Now that they're there at Safe Home, we have to ask ourselves if they're there elsewhere in the chain. That is why it is so important for our party that this monitoring does not concern one aspect and is not reactive but continuous, and can also signal waiting lists where possible. In the end, it's up to the Chamber to make sure we have the information we need to see if it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u31	Let's talk about responsibility. We have set up monitors for a number of things, and if that is not enough, we will hear it. But have we not decentralised youth aid and youth protection to the municipalities? Isn't it the city councils and the aldermen who need to have a look at the waiting lists? After all, they must ensure that these young people get off the waiting lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u32	Yes, we have decentralised with the aim that this would lead to better and faster aid. Where there are problems, the ruler, in this case the Secretary of State as the final responsible, must be able to see that things are going wrong. Decentralisation must not lead to arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u33	We have laid down the responsibilities for making youth aid and protection available to the municipalities and thus primarily to the alderman and the council members. Does Mrs Volp agree that we have arranged this by law with each other in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u34	Totally agree with the law, absolutely. Now that we are getting such signals through the inspection report, it is important that we ask the executive how this was created, how it is possible that aldermen have apparently not been able to use either the right means or have a good view of how Safe Home works. They then have the freedom to regulate things, but they must ensure that help is provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u35	It is clear that something needs to be done, and that is why we are having this debate. We ask the directors to talk to the municipalities about this. Let us be clear about where responsibility lies first and foremost. Does Mrs Volp agree with me that this lies primarily with the municipalities that have been given responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u36	I think I've been clear about this. That's the law, too. However, we are now getting signals that are worrying. I also think it is our duty as a government to put everything in place where it does not go as it should, where the responsibility can apparently not yet be sufficiently taken up, to prevent people from getting into trouble: children, the elderly and anyone else in a relationship of dependence linked to violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u37	I share Mrs Volp's view of the PvdA that there is indeed a responsibility for the Empire and also for us as a Chamber. We have a system responsibility. The inspection report shows that more than half of the Safe Home Organisations do not have a look at the waiting lists and do not meet the requirements. As a Chamber, we do have a responsibility to monitor the system. If things go wrong like this,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u38	These are all things you can say in second term too. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u39	I thought it was important to express my support for Mrs Volp's speech. Does she agree that the Chamber should have information? It can't be that both regiments have that information and we don't. Then the Chamber can't control the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u40	I believe that we should have a look at the way in which those responsible deal with cases where things are not going well. With regard to this information, I wonder what Mrs Bergkamp wants. Does she want a full list of waiting lists of victims of violence; young, old, woman, man? I don't think that makes any sense. Signals like this about Safe Home must however reach the Chamber. Only, for monitoring we have the appropriate organizations. That information is important. That is why I am asking for a coherent monitoring function. Honestly, I miss it now. That is also my question to the Secretary of State. The signals have to reach the Chamber. However, the question is how comprehensive the information should be. We need to know where it goes wrong, and we need to know why it goes wrong and what is being done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u41	I think the monitor goes even further than Mrs Kooiman and I proposed. I welcome the support for a comprehensive integrated monitor. The view on the waiting lists is important. We may or may not agree on the nature of the waiting lists. How else do we know, for example, whether we will have to discuss the Spring Note to Safe Home? Does the PvdA agree with us that at least the waiting lists problem raised by the inspection should be part of such an integral monitor?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u42	My argument is that such a monitor is more than a reactive observation, i.e. more than what was found by the inspection, i.e. waiting lists. In such a monitor, for example, a much clearer indication can be given of where the supply chain is profitable for a number of aspects of cooperation. The Chamber will receive information on this matter. It is therefore perhaps appropriate to ask the Secretary of State how he looks at what I would like, a more integrated monitoring, and how it should take shape. I would like an answer from the Secretary of State. As far as I am concerned, he can also answer the question of what information from the monitor goes to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u43	That's what we're gonna wait for first. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u44	As I said, we are talking about a structural problem. That is not the case now, but it is important that the now-chosen organisation of the aid system, both the care process and the legal process, should in any case not lead to problems getting worse. On this point, too, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he looks at this monitoring. I have two more points. First of all, I would like to mention that a lot is going well. I also see and hear that the employees of Safe Home are doing their utmost to get this right. A lot's going well, but there can be much better. So it doesn't end on its own. Secondly, I notice, again this evening, that it is very much about specific target groups. I'm worried about that. Safe Home is a combination of a number of organizations. I would like to avoid too much attention being paid to one particular target group. It is important that situations where there is violence in dependency relationships, whether children, men, women or the elderly, can be viewed much more in conjunction with Safe Home. How does the Secretary of State see the guarantee of expertise on all target groups that, unfortunately, have to do with violence in dependency relationships?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mr. Chairman. At the end of last year the inspection came up with a destructive report on the new Safe Home Organization. That's a very alarming one. The CDA has also received many e-mails from all over the country in recent weeks with bottlenecks. We are talking about protecting the most vulnerable, so it is clear that we are having an important debate here. It is good that municipalities are working on improvement plans and that the inspection is on top of it with such a critical report, but the question is what caused the problems and how quickly they are resolved. What is the Secretary of State's view on this? The reports we receive show that there have been rapid changes and that there are many different methods that need to be merged into one puzzle, resulting in high workload, demotivated staff and high absenteeism. Employees seem to have spent most of their time keeping up with protocols and files, while those who are involved, the vulnerable children and family members, are forgotten. The inspection describes the causes in administrative management language: the preparation time was too short, the social domain was moving everywhere, existing structures in care for vulnerable families changed and local care structures had to be built from the ground up. In ordinary human language: all this was just too fast and too much at the same time. Does the Secretary of State share this conclusion? Is it true there's a high absenteeism? If so, what is the reason for that, according to the Secretary of State? No less than 80% of the organisations fail to carry out the triage within the legal period of five days and start the research. My question to the Secretary of State is: how is that possible? What is fundamentally wrong here? We're talking 80%, not 10% or 20%. How can the Secretary of State explain this as a representative of a reliable government to the employees of Safe Home and to the vulnerable needy? What happens to the real emergency cases? We would like to hear this from the Secretary of State. Does this lead to house visits behind the front door and measures such as the imposition of a temporary house ban? I hope that more will be done than just drawing up a paper plan of action. We can talk tonight until tomorrow morning and focus protocols again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u46	I wasn't going to allow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. But when you don't have enough staff, you simply don't make it. How does the Secretary of State view this? Has he ever talked to the Home Secretary about this? Does he believe that municipalities have been given sufficient financial space for this important task and for eliminating the high-level waiting lists?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u48	I understand that this has brought you to the end of your speech. We have also come to the end of the first term of office and we have the opportunity to present Mrs Agema's little present to the Secretary of State. That's happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u49	I'd like to be the first to give the floor to the Secretary of State. It's not entirely state-law pure, but we just do it. The vice wildness strikes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u50	Mr. Chairman. We did agree that I would start, because the amount of questions for me is slightly larger. The brief summary of the debate is that we are all concerned...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u51	Mr Van der Steur is present, but has problems charging his phone. Things are moving in the right direction now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u52	...about Mr. Van der Steur's position. In his chair, I mean. Mr President, I repeat my speech. I think that the brief summary of the debate is that we are all concerned about the descriptions that emerge from an inspection report. For the debate, I would like to emphasise that there are two elements in the inspection report. The first element is that the inspection also pays a huge compliment to the Safe Home Organisations and their employees and employees for the incredible amount of work that has been done. Go on as organisations: and the reform of the care and the merging of these organisations and react to the campaign, which leads to more notifications. As Mrs Volp said, it gives a two-fold picture. A number of things are going well. We can even say that we wanted more reports to come. At the same time, it doesn't mean we'll be there. If you look at what the inspection says about the state of affairs, I am pleased that the inspection notes that in acute situations the Safe Home Organisations are able to take action quickly and that this is happening. The inspection also notes that the competences of the Safe Home Employees are very good and that the willingness to act is high. They can react very quickly to situations and give a very sharp form to the contacts with the community organisations under construction. Well, that's a good thing to say. Are there any points of improvement? Oh, yeah! We just found that out with each other. Those points of improvement have to do with the question of whether there is and remains sufficient visibility on the waiting list. If you are very sad at the front and keep a close eye on the acute situations that need to be acted on, you can immediately start with those cases. The other cases can be later. If the waiting list grows and you lose sight of that waiting list, the risk is that you don't have a sufficient view of the dangers that will arise. That's why we say to each other that we don't want to. You need to learn well and be able to respond quickly to acute situations. You also need to keep an eye on the risks in the waiting period, which will always occur there. That is at the heart of the issue raised by the inspection. That is exactly why two things are happening. Firstly, the inspection is on top of asking for improvement plans from all institutions and ensuring that the list of 26 key points is complied with. The inspection has indicated in its report that it has received improvement plans from each Safe Home Organisation which, in accordance with the improvement plans, all meet the requirements of the inspection in six months. Secondly, we have said to each other, together with the VNG and my colleague in the field of security and justice, that we must work structuralally to improve the quality of the Safe Home Organisations. What about the trusted doctors, the ICT, the exchange of information and the method of reporting, where the question is whether it is unambiguous? We will have to adopt these two approaches. First of all, we need to keep a close eye on the quality of Safe Home. Secondly, we get information from the inspection, for example on how the waiting lists are going. Thirdly, we must ensure that, in a structural sense, we work programmatically with Mr Sprokkereef's project to ensure that we solve a number of problems in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u53	Are you with this at the end of your introduction? Or does it run through a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u54	This can be considered a cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u55	In that case, I will give Mrs Bergkamp the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u56	I wonder if the Secretary of State is on top of it enough. In the general consultation on 24 September, I already asked whether we should not worry about the waiting lists. The Secretary of State replied by saying that he would go into the country and that he would talk to Safe Home Organizations. He said he didn't have any signals that no action could be taken because there were waiting lists. We have now received a report from the inspection showing that two-thirds of the families on the waiting lists are not sufficiently aware of the safety of the families on the waiting lists. Wouldn't the Secretary of State have known that by September? It is very nice that we have another programme manager and fortunately we have a very good inspection, but I would like to know if the Secretary of State himself feels the urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u57	May I ask you to intervene a little less, Mrs. Bergkamp? Our Rules of Procedure require that "interruptions should consist of brief comments or questions without introduction." Those very long introductions are not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u58	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order. The reason I'm making a long interruption is because I don't feel the freedom to commit multiple interruptions. Some of my colleagues do it in threes, but I do it in twos. That's the background why my interruptions might be a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u59	As long as it is business, factual and political, you can interrupt as much as you like, provided you do it briefly and clearly. This is stated in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u60	I hope to state that I take the matter very seriously and see its urgency. We said at the time that the merger to Safe Home was a very big task, which greatly seized the employees. At the same time, we wanted to ensure that the collaboration between Safe Home and GPs and Safe Home and neighborhood organisations came to steam. To the question of whether there are waiting lists and, if so, how we respond to them, I can answer that we have done so in two ways. On the one hand, we did so with this inspection programme to find out what is going on. The Chamber has seen that this is a solid report with pluses and minuses. On the other hand, we have said that, as soon as it appears that there is insufficient visibility on the waiting lists, we should not only develop that inspection report with proposals for improvement, as has been agreed, but at the same time we should also launch a structural programme to assess in a structural sense whether further improvements should be made. I think we have reacted very carefully by taking a number of measures, namely the deployment of the inspection, the project together with the UNG and the actions to ensure that the information comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u61	In my opinion, the Secretary of State was laconically in the general consultation of September when he said to go through the country and not get any signals. Now he's shocked by the inspection report. Is there a difference between them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u62	The difference is that I am happy that these acute situations can be responded very quickly. I welcome that conclusion from the inspection. Like you, I am concerned, because it should not lead to the triage being good on the front and to immediate action being taken in acute situations, but rather to the loss of sight on the waiting lists due to the growing demand or more reports and the lack of recognition of the risks. The system works, because there is an immediate response in an acute situation, but if there is a growth in the waiting lists that makes people lose sight, I have as much concern as you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u63	The Secretary of State begins to return his introduction with the ball to the Safe Home Organizations. They must come up with improvement plans, with 26 checkboxes that they have to tick off. I think the inspection report correctly indicates that the alarm bells are going off and that we have placed an almost impossible task on those Safe Home Organizations. How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u64	I don't think so. I think that the reason why the CDA was also in favour of the Youth Act is that there were all kinds of tasks and responsibilities with the municipalities, so that there is more insight into the ability to pursue more comprehensive policies. I think it is only right that we should monitor this closely, looking at whether the working methods of Safe Home meet the quality requirements we set. The inspection comes with a report containing 25 criteria that all Safe Home Organisations must meet. Then we'll get a look at what's right or wrong. Improvement plans are then called for, indicating that we will get this matter in order within six months. I think that is very good and worthy of compliments, not only on the inspection for that report, but also on the Safe Home Organization, which was able to react so quickly and adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u65	We will wait and see what instruments the Secretary of State will provide to help the Safe Home Organisations to deliver on the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u66	The main point is that the responsible aldermen together with the Empire are therefore that a joint mission to Mr Sprokkereef is looking at the connection between Safe Home Organisations and the district teams and ensuring that these organisations are adequately equipped. If there are bottlenecks, they need to surface and be discussed. That is precisely what we are doing with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u67	I thought I just heard the Secretary of State say that all Safe Home Organizations would meet all the conditions within six months. That would be to September. I also made that list, but I do see a number of Safe Home organizations with a different date, or unclear. Can the Secretary of State answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u68	Don't let that be my judgment. I quote from the inspection report: The inspections have now received improvement measures and improvement plans, which show that all Safe Home Organisations are working hard to meet all the criteria and expectations of the review framework (step 1 of the inspection investigation) in the first half of 2016. The inspection will also do a retest. Then we will be able to assess whether that is true. It is good that the improvement plans are there, but it is also very good that the inspection is looking into whether they are actually being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u69	I do have some other data on the basis of the improvement plans. I assume this report will come to the Chamber again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u70	Certainly, because step 2 of the report focuses on the use of follow-up pathways and the carrying out of that research. In doing so, we will consider whether the improvement plans, with the intentions leading to action, are actually achieving results. When they have no result, we also have material available to put it in order. That is why the follow-up to the inspection is taking place. It is essential to recall that it is not just a question of looking at waiting times. Other important points of improvement have also been identified, such as the promotion of staff expertise and the improvement of cooperation with district teams, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The goal is to eventually arrive at a covering network of effective Safe Home Organizations. We are not yet there, we must be realistic about that, but important steps have been taken. The Safe Home programme of the VNG has just started and will assist in resolving the problems where necessary, which is about tailor-made work. I will report to the Chamber in the progress reports on the state of play, including the project Safe Home led by Mr Sprokkereef.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u71	I have listened for a while to the vague language of this Secretary of State. He may refer to organisations and municipalities, but where is the responsibility of this Secretary of State? When can the Safe Home Organizations contact this Secretary of State and say that it is no longer possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u72	That's already happening. I would point out that we have looked at how we can ensure that the Safe Home Organisations can work properly and how we can monitor this. We have done this through the inspection programme: what are we supposed to do about these Safe Home Organisations and do they comply with them? That led to an inspection report. It contains a number of shortcomings and sets out the requirements to be met in order to achieve an improvement. The inspection says that everyone is working hard to achieve those improvements in the first six months. In addition, a project has been launched with the VNG to examine the need to resolve a number of bottlenecks together. These range from a better understanding of waiting times to expertise promotion and IT systems. In short, this relates to the structural quality approach. We can, of course, disagree on this, but I actually think that in this area we have not only hanged the responsibilities, but b. we have also seen exactly how things are going. We then took a number of improvement measures and started a project together with the municipalities to achieve structural improvements. Mrs Kooiman cannot tell me that we are not doing enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u73	Of course, you can come up with a cloud of projects in this Chamber or with the municipalities...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u74	What project does Mrs Kooiman disagree with? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u75	... but the point is, of course, that a Jessica or Chantal I was talking about should actually notice the improvement. Let me make one point. For example, the Secretary of State says he wants to get a look at the waiting times. Does he believe, like the SP and D66, that you should have a natural view of the waiting times throughout the chain, so that children at least receive timely help?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u76	Yeah, but where's my hesitation in this "yes"? It is not good, as in the past, to get all kinds of information about waiting times in sub-areas, while this information is de facto not even saying anything. If people who need immediate help can be helped acutely and other people can wait, then there is a waiting list that is very common. If people have to wait too long and thereby create risks in the area of security, then that is, of course, entirely wrong. That waiting time information as such doesn't really mean anything. I will come to the question raised by Mrs Volp on that point in a moment. I believe that in the operation of Safe Home there should be an insight into how many people are registered, how fast one can be there and whether one can help in acute situations. The inspection shall check whether the waiting times are acceptable, whether there is sufficient visibility and whether sufficient measures are being taken. On this basis, we will have a discussion here in the Chamber about the budget, whether the system works, and whether the municipality should be addressed. All of that has to happen. However, I believe that the organisation itself should have a look at the waiting list and that it should be discussed in municipal councils whether sufficient resources are being made available to achieve something. We keep an eye on whether the whole system works, through the monitoring, inspection and the project Sprokkereef.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u77	When an investigation is to be started, children can hardly wait. When the investigation is complete, a child or the family should receive the treatment it needs as soon as possible. It is really important that we have an overview of the totality of waiting times, for example. Every day a child has to wait for treatment is too long. I've worked in child care myself, so I know how important it is for children to be treated quickly. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP that the Chamber should at least be informed about waiting times?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u78	That's what's happening now. Because we have the inspection report. If one suspects that there is a waiting list that will lead to waiting times such that we do not have sufficient insight into the risks, then there is a demand for improvement. We then map out where things are going well, where things are not going well and where an improvement action is needed. That's exactly what we're doing. I will come back to the general monitoring later. I come to a number of specific questions. Mrs Bergkamp asked whether the safety of children, the elderly and adults was adequately guaranteed. I think I've answered that question a little bit. If the inspections indicate that there is an acute security risk or a crisis situation for children and other victims, then rapid action will be taken. I share Mrs Bergkamp's view that it is indeed essential that you have sufficient insight into the risks of what you do not treat acutely. I think we are very much in agreement on that. It is not desirable for that to happen. I do not think that is acceptable either. That is precisely why we have taken these actions. The aldermen want that, too. They want Safe Home to function adequately and therefore also to monitor the security situation. That is one of the reasons why we had no misunderstanding or disagreement about the need for the route we are going to start under the leadership of Mr Sprokkereef.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u79	Mrs. Van der Burg, why don't we give the Secretary of State a chance to get a little steam? He hadn't been busy for four minutes or had been interrupted for 12 minutes. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u80	I had the impression he was done asking the block about the waiting lists. I had asked if it would be in order before the summer of 2016. I'd like to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u81	I shall return to Mrs van der Burg's specific question. Members Bergkamp, Kooiman and Agema have asked if there is enough money for the organisation Safe Home. I do not have any signals at the moment that there would not be enough money, but we need to talk about that. That is precisely what could be found in the Sprokkereef project. What is the quality required? Is there insufficient capacity? What are the differences between the organisations? If those things turned out, I wouldn't run away from them. We have to look at these matters, but we have to look at them on the basis of a good analysis. Again, this Secretary of State never ran away from that discussion, because the content is paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u82	The inspection does draw a rather strong conclusion, namely that there is a lack of resources in the Safe Home Organisations. That's a hell of a conclusion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u83	Yes, but then the question is: should the municipalities allocate more resources to the Safe Home Organisations or is there a macro problem, driven by the system? In all these improvement plans, I see that a lot of municipalities, or at least a number of municipalities, have provided additional funds, whether temporarily or not, to solve these problems. That's the way the system should work. And if we all feel that municipalities do not have enough resources to tackle the problems, then we should have a debate on this. I do think that we should at least give aldermen in the cities the opportunity to solve the problems themselves in the first instance, within the budgets they have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u84	This is a crisis situation; look at the inspection report. It is fine that a programme manager is appointed to do all kinds of things, but I would like to hear some deadlines from the Secretary of State. When does the Chamber get a look at this? When are we going to know whether there's any extra money to go here or not? When can the room see that those waiting lists are gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u85	The first phase of Mr Sprokkereef's programme has been allocated six months. So we're going to see this within that time limit. Mrs Bergkamp rightly points out in various debates that we need to ensure that municipalities can assume their responsibilities. If there are bottlenecks that can be resolved at municipal level, this should be done there. Because of our system responsibility, we must monitor whether municipalities are sufficiently capable of doing so and whether they are actually doing so, if it is at issue. Through various sources we can see if there are any bottlenecks: inspection sources, the monitors of the municipalities and now also the project Sprokkereef. I am convinced that these will provide sufficient information to enable us to draw conclusions as to whether or not there are any changes to the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u86	I think that six months is far too long; at least I would have said that to the Secretary of State. On the basis of the report, I believe there is a crisis situation. Children and families are at risk. I'm just going to give the rulers that I think six months is way too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u87	That's what I indicated in the conversations with all the aldermen. They thought so, too. Where there have been findings about their Safe Home Organisations, the aldermen assume their responsibility. Where measures are needed, they will take them as well. Some aldermen have, sometimes temporarily, allocated additional resources. I think that's a good response. Mrs Bergkamp and I share the view that we should not wait until an analysis has been made as to whether anything is needed. Measures are already needed, and the aldermen are also in the process of finding them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u88	I don't see any action from the Secretary of State. Once again, aldermen had to ring the bell. I talk to them all the time. They say they're short and they're out of control right now. Safe Home Organizations have already had to fire people. The waiting times have still not been resolved. The inspection notes that, too. So, once again, I ask the Secretary of State: when can we expect a plan from him with regard to the financial resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u89	If it turns out that municipalities do not have sufficient resources to solve the problem, they will have to solve it in consultation with their municipal council. That's what they got the resources for. First of all, this is really a responsibility of the municipalities. We have here to assess with each other whether municipalities have sufficient resources to solve this problem. Let's use that order. We have all adopted the Youth Act, with all the necessary measures. In doing so, we have enabled the municipalities to take responsibility. I have said with every law, including the Youth Act, that it does not mean good luck with it. We talk periodically about whether municipalities are able to do so in terms of knowledge, skills, strength and sometimes financial resources. That's what we're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u90	I will allow your interruption only if it does not lead to a repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u91	If I'm just talking to a wall and I don't get an answer, I'm gonna have to repeat my question one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u92	No. You've received an answer. You just don't like that answer. That's your right, but we're not gonna say the same thing 16 times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u93	This cabinet cuts 300 million on youth care and 600 million on the Wmo. Waiting lists are actually running up. The inspection also notes this in its report. I wonder when the Secretary of State, for example in the Spring Paper, will be adding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u94	Why don't we just follow the order we agreed on? We have given resources to the municipalities for this task. Municipalities have therefore been given the responsibility to do this properly. We are watching this very closely, with the inspection report, the analyses of the Safe Home Organisations and a joint project. That's what we agreed on. There came information that we say should lead to improvements. That's what congregations are doing right now. On the basis of this information, we must periodically examine whether municipalities are sufficiently capable of doing so. We cannot say here, despite the fact that we have agreed to do so, that we all do not, and now we are going to make other financial decisions on our own? That wouldn't be good, would it, not even for the aldermen's responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u95	We can't sit here on our hands for six months and just hope we're gonna be okay. I would like to be able to check with the Secretary of State in the Spring paper, including whether the municipalities are making use of the financial resources, because that is my job as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u96	I understand from the aldermen that they too will not wait. Measures are already being taken on the basis of the inspection report. The inspection points out that there are all improvement plans...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u97	This is gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u98	I see now that municipalities are actually taking responsibility on the basis of the inspection reports. If that leads to other discussions, then we will see it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u99	Mr Amhaouch, I also say to you that it makes no sense if it is a repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u100	The Secretary of State says not to run away from it. It suits him that he is open to the right things being done in the right order. However, in relation to the incidents, the Secretary of State says that these are not systematic matters. But if 80% of the Safe Home Organisations do not meet the legal deadline of five days, can he not deny that there is a structural problem with which we have to help the municipalities, so that they can at least catch their breath?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u101	That is why it might be good to get some deeper information about this. The inspection notes that acute situations are taking place and that more reports are being made, partly as a result of the successful campaign. The selection when a notification can or cannot wait is precisely a matter of business management, which I expect the Sprokkereef project will produce a more unambiguous approach, so that we can assess with each other whether the delay is bad or not. Any exceedance of a time limit that puts a child at risk is too much. Let me say that right away. It is not for nothing that we have had a whole discussion and a number of debates with each other on how to deal with the type of notifications. What are acute risks and what are non-acute risks? How do we deal with reports from the general practitioners and how do we not deal with reports from the general practitioners? There's still a world to win. We cannot say on that basis: the legal deadline has been exceeded, so it is wrong. We really need a deeper business insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u102	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u103	Mrs Bergkamp asked whether there is also an eye for the different forms of attention in Safe Home. She has a point to make. We must be careful not to focus on a single point; Safe Home is wider. Mrs Volp pointed that out as well. Safe Home is indeed for all forms of domestic violence, including for elder abuse and mistreatment of women. Various trainings have been and are being developed for this purpose and we talk with Safe Home about how we deal with financial exploitation, a new branch of the tribe, to put it a little cynical. As far as I'm concerned, it's part of the plan in the further professionalization. We will have to continue to apply that width, and I very much agree with that. Mrs Bergkamp also asked whether we are organising properly that the Safe Home Organisations can learn from each other. Yes, the program Safe Home of Mr.Sprokkereef is meant to learn from each other and improve the national network Safe Home and further professionalise. This is a very justified point, which is already under way, but which could be greatly strengthened. I have already dealt with Mrs Kooiman's question on responsibility. I do not think we were entirely in agreement. This also applies to the monitoring by inspections of waiting times. Mrs van der Burg noted that the completion of the investigation will not take place within the legal deadline. Can this be done by the end of 2016? My answer to that is a little nuanced. The inspection indicates that there are improvement plans that all assume that this case can be resolved in six months. That's gonna have to prove it. That is also why the Inspection is going to look at it in a second round. By the way, in April and June, the Inspection will carry out retests with the seven Safe Home Organizations that are now poorly scored in the report. We're a little closer to that. In many cases, aldermen have temporarily made additional formations available to shorten waiting times and local agreements are made about passing on to help. I have already referred to Mr Sprokkereef's project, which will also lead to improvements in quality in a more general sense. Mrs Van der Burg also asked if the question of sufficient trust doctors has been resolved. I do believe that the expertise of trusted doctors and their availability is incredibly important for the timely detection and cessation of child abuse and domestic violence. The Inspection has asked the improvement plans to bring the capacity of key functions to strength for a given date. By the way, that date differs by Safe Home Organisation. VNG is in conversation with the Inspectorate, the trusted doctors and the Safe Home Organizations. It looks at the formation of trusted doctors and whether certain tasks may need to be organised above regional level. The aldermen have said that they want to have this in order in September 2016, and I assume so. We will, of course, take a good look at that. The same applies to the 24-hour availability of the trusted doctors. Regions will speak with the VNG and the Safe Home network shortly with the inspections on this issue. They also look at solutions in the regions that fit within the review framework. That will be taken into account at that point. Mrs Volp asked a broader question. She said: we're looking at different parts of the chain now, which also gives information, and if there's a problem, we're going to do some things, but shouldn't you look at the whole chain and think about a more structural form of monitoring? That's a point I'd like to worry about, just to put it this way. We have inspection reports now. It's gonna stay that way. We now have the Wmo and the youth monitors. We have the monitoring of the regional visions Violence in the home. We have made separate agreements on this. And we have the municipal monitors. You'd say we've got quite a lot of information, all in all. However, we sometimes have a need for this, and I see this in the debate here in the Chamber here in order to know how it works overall, so that we do not have all kinds of projects and improvement projects, and perhaps make separate agreements about them, but that we look more structuralally. I think that is a valid point. I don't really have an answer to it yet. Mrs Bergkamp also pointed out in her contribution that we should look at this structural way of thinking a little bit of that perhaps ad hoc way. I'm willing to see how we could do that. Then we have to look at the width of the chain, so that we get, as it were, an insight into the whole. Once again, I do not have a clear solution to this, but I understand what Members mean. I would also like to agree that I will make further proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u104	I thank the Secretary of State. I'm really glad he understands what we're talking about. I also see he's willing to think about that. In addition to monitoring, I would also like to mention that we are often doing more incident policy on this dossier. In addition to that monitor, it might be useful to look at the more advisory role that could possibly be invested in it. We need to avoid getting points plans only with 24 or 25 points in response to an incident, which does not make me uncomfortable, because we also need to be able to get that advisory role more independent, so that it is less the delusion of the day. I hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u105	We've got the Transition Committee on Social Domain together with the Home Office. It is trying, as it were, to be above these decentralisations and to look at the issues we face when we look at the results of the functioning of the whole chain. The nice thing about it is that it is not a part of the chain, but that the total is taken into account and that the administrative point is also taken into account whether the system functions in the administrative sense as intended. I am not going to say that we are going to ask the transition committee to do this, because I think we need to look specifically at the youth side and the youth chain. I agree. I think that we should not just look at the information contained in the various parts, but that we should come up with some advice on how it works now and what should be worked on in the next round. I would point out, moreover, that the inspection report already works a bit like this. I would also point out that the Youth Inspectorate, the IGZ itself, as well as the Safety and Justice Inspectorate, are working together on more and more issues and jointly producing reports which, at least from the point of view of supervision, try to fulfil all this function.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u106	The Secretary of State specifically mentions youth care in his explanatory statement. I would therefore like to go wider. That's where my concern lies. If there's another transition committee or something like that, we're gonna monitor the process of transition. However, regardless of whether there is a transition towards decentralisation, I want to monitor the approach to domestic violence in the broadest sense. I'm still missing that part in the Secretary of State's reaction. If he can promise that that's something he's taking into consideration, I can agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u107	I'm sure I'll give you my word. I understand what Mrs Volp is asking for, and I have that need myself. Mrs Volp and Mrs Bergkamp spoke about the overall chain and the desire to look at the overall system. I would like to make further proposals on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u108	When?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u109	I would like to return to that in the forthcoming progress report. This does not mean that it will be resolved, but at least we will be able to indicate the course of action on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u110	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u111	Mrs. Volp asked if incidents and near-incidents are being monitored. The system is that calamities are reported. As far as is known, there have been no serious incidents or calamities. Safe Home Organisations make improvements to gain insight into the safety of families' children on the waiting list. The review of inspections will focus in particular on this point. The question is whether there is sufficient visibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u112	The next point I could not raise in my four minutes' speaking time. If a notification is on the waiting list, the reporter can be informed about it, including whether he can get an appropriate alternative to care. Has this been taken yet? If not, can this still be included in the mandate to Mr Sprokkereef?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u113	I see no objection to discussing that with him. We'll give him that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u114	Can I conclude from this that this has not been a policy so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u115	That's exactly my hesitation. I would just like to find out whether the nature of the report gives rise to an alternative. You asked me to include this in the investigation and the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u116	I think this is good. The feedback towards detector is a matter of concern anyway. We will not discuss this tonight, but this may be part of the solution. So I'd like to see this taken. If that is the case now, I would like the Chamber to be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u117	If it works and provides good examples, it is extremely important. That will certainly involve us. The CDA asked what happens in emergency cases. That's customization. That depends on the problem. Sometimes there is a ban on housekeeping, sometimes assistance and sometimes relief and debt restructuring. That depends on the individual case. There is no general policy, but there is tailor-made action. They also asked about the absenteeism. I don't have any signs that there's a higher absenteeism. That is not apparent from the inspection report either. I generally note, especially when I speak to the people, that they are highly motivated people who are incredibly involved in their work. I have great admiration for them, given everything they've been given. This will lead to signs, especially at individual level, that there is a heavy load. I won't deny that. If Mr Amhaouch has any signals, I'd be happy to hear them. I didn't get them out of the inspection report. I am a little hesitant about Mr Amhaouch's name, because I do not know if I am doing that right. Maybe the chairman can give me a hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u118	The statement is: Mr Amaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u119	Mr Amhaouch asked if it was not too much and fast. That question is often reflected in the contributions, including from the CDA. I note that the movement towards the integrated youth aid of one family, one plan by municipalities, was also a point of the CDA. On the issue of youth aid, the CDA wanted to increase the responsibility of the aldermen. I am not sure if I have more confidence in the aldermen in the municipalities than Mr Amhaouch, but I do know that the CDA has more aldermen for youth policy than the Labour Party. I have seen, noted and also learned that trust in the aldermen, including in the field of youth care, is very justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u120	The CDA has indeed agreed to the Youth Act, but voted against the Wmo 2015, not on the system itself but because it is far too fast in a short time. That is why the CDA believes that we need to look at where things are going too quickly and too much at once and where we can provide instruments to help the municipalities and the aldermen to ease the situation until they have it under control. And there are a lot of aldermen from the CDA but also from other parties, from the PvdA, D66, that doesn't matter, it's about the people who do good work. That is what the CDA is calling for attention to be given to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u121	I note that it seems that it is not the Youth Act that we are talking about here, because you have agreed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u122	We have agreed to this, but we must now take a critical look at where the bottlenecks are, as the inspection report indicates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u123	Exactly that's what we're doing, with the inspection report to see which improvement plans are rolling out and with the project together with the VNG. Mr Amhaouch has asked for the 80%. In their improvement plans, the Safe Home Organisations have used a fast triage, precisely to ensure that at the front is quickly determined whether there are acute issues that require attention and then to check the waiting times and waiting lists. The point we have in common is that we say that we will, but we do want to have a look at the risks arising from that waiting list. I want to leave it at that in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u124	I'm gonna take a look around and see if there's any more broom-wagon-like actions. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u125	I'm still missing a few answers. It has been very clearly stated in the inspection report that the conditions at the Safe Home Organisations are not always in order. One concerns the ICT systems. That is not the easiest thing to do, as the President knows. I asked if we had a very good deal in place by the end of 2016. I'd like an answer to that. I also asked a question about monitoring children who are in danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u126	Apologies, I may have answered the question a little too generally in the project that we are starting under Mr Sprokkereef's direction. I have said that this is not just about the waiting list discussion, but also about business management and expertise, including ICT. At this stage, I don't know. We are going to look at it, because I agree with Mrs van der Burg that ICT and the exchange of information are an extremely important part of this. We may note the need to achieve this by the middle of this year, but I do not dare to say that it is all settled by the end of 2016. There are many lessons in this house that we have learned and one of them is that you have to be careful to say that something is ready at some point. It's part of the project. We are looking at whether it is necessary, whether there should be harmonisation and whether there should be other things, so that we can see when it could be achieved. I have answered the other points concerning the trusted physician and the availability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u127	Did you miss any more?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u128	The second point is monitoring. That is also ICT but in a slightly different way. Is that included in the Sprokkereef route?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u129	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u130	And we are clearly informed about this, at the latest six months after now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u131	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u132	I am missing an analysis in the State Secretary's speech as to why there are so many Safe Home Organisations in trouble. We have discussed the problems in detail. How come?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u133	I believe that there are two reasons for this. On the one hand, there were major changes for the Safe Home Organisations, not only internally by merging the AMK and the support points, but also the cooperation arrangements that should be made with the state organisations. That is the problem of reorganization in order to respond to the new situation. On the other hand, there is the campaign which leads to many more reports. We do not yet know whether all these reports require immediate follow-up. It does lead to a new business question. How do we handle these reports? How's the triage of that? What does that mean? This combination, I think, leads to a number of such issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u134	If there is to be a progress report, I think it would be a good idea to include some information on the extent to which this increase in reporting is unjustified. That's what I'm curious about. I'd like to get a better look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u135	That is a very crucial point. That's exactly why I said that not all reports are the same. It seems very good to me to look at the nature of these reports. The distinction between these reports could be a very important key to the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u136	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me remind the Chamber that domestic violence and child abuse are a priority of the police. The police consider tackling domestic violence, including child abuse, to be one of its core tasks. This is as such invested with the base teams. Stopping violence is the most important starting point. It is part of daily police work with more than 95,000 incidents per year and also calls for special cooperation with partners. A joint approach looks at what is the most effective intervention. Because there is so much going on in the field of domestic violence and child abuse, the police have decided to appoint a programme manager for domestic violence and child abuse. It will deal primarily with the sorting of notifications. That is a priority task. I will report on the work of the program manager in the progress report Violence in dependency relationships. It will be sent to the Chamber in July. Domestic violence and child abuse have also been explicitly mentioned as high impact crimes in the security agenda of the Minister of Security and Justice, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the regional mayors. With this, the focus is on the subject of the police, but also on the authorities. Of course, the management role lies with the municipalities. They determine, together with the Public Prosecutor's Office and on the advice of the police, on the basis of the local circumstances what forms they want to give specific priorities and what the approach will be. Mrs Kooiman asked what is the responsibility of the Minister of Security and Justice. Firstly, there is, of course, the responsibility for the regional cooperation of Safe Home with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. That cooperation should be promoted and facilitated. Secondly, he must ensure that these care reports by the police at Safe Home are sorted out. Thirdly, he must ensure that probation and the Children's Protection Council cooperate well with Safe Home. Fourthly, the safety agenda identified domestic violence and child protection as high impact crimes as priorities. I just said that. It is also necessary to ensure that this priority is implemented. In that context, Mrs Bergkamp asked how these signals from the police are properly transmitted to Safe Home. A signal about a minor or a family is transmitted by the police through a so-called care report. This requires a good cooperation between Safe Home and the police to pass on the right information. The general cooperation arrangements are now being set up locally. They are more concerned with the sharing of information. The whole chain is important in this respect; we also involve the Children's Protection Council and the parole board in this project. This programme manager will play an important role in this. It is therefore expected that the quality of these reports will be actively improved in the coming months. I am very pleased to have had the opportunity to exchange views with the Chamber on this point once again, despite the fact that it is sometimes less extensive. I do this together with my colleague, Mr Van Rijn, with whom I work closely in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u137	Of course, we think it would be a shame if we had to let the Minister of Security and Justice go without any extra work. I have indeed asked a question about more integrated monitoring. Can the Minister tell us how he looks at that? It also concerns the justice chain and the coherence that Mrs Kooiman mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u138	It should be made clear that the reporting on the activities to be undertaken must, of course, be done in a good way. We know that there are challenges in a number of areas. Good reporting is necessary, including to the Chamber. So I am not opposed to integral monitoring. In fact, I think it would be wise to choose to do so, because it also shows that we are jointly stressing this integrality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u139	That's a comforting answer. If monitoring makes recommendations for improvements within the justice chain in tackling domestic violence, will the Minister see opportunities to implement them? I understand that the Secretary of State is going to work out the precise form or at least let his thoughts be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u140	That's kind of an open-door question. When improvements in the approach are possible and necessary, we must, of course, simply implement them. I will have an exchange of views with the Secretary of State and have close consultations with him on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u141	The Minister states that a separate prosecutor responsible for coordination has been appointed in this area. Now tackling offenders is also extremely important to prevent them from committing this type of violence against anyone, whether older or younger. Now we sometimes see cases where people are surprised by the degree of punishment, or cases where they are said to be unprovokable. Will this district attorney also see how we can make these cases more evidenceable, so that the perpetrators actually get the punishment they deserve, given what they've done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u142	Perhaps for the sake of correction: I have just spoken about the program manager who works at the level of the police. It's about streamlining and improving the reports that are being made from the police to Safe Home. So that's not a state's attorney. Mrs van der Burg is certainly right when she says that in many cases of domestic violence it is difficult to obtain the evidence. That is why I also said in my introductory speech that the primary action of the police is to stop the violence; that must be done. The follow-up question is whether or not we can properly separate the perpetrators from the children or those who are being abused. That could also be the roommates, men or women. In addition, a point of attention remains that you ensure that you get the evidence for any criminal case, if that is useful. You can also imagine situations of domestic violence where a criminal case may not be the solution, but other interventions may be. Of course, we also have ample scope for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u143	We agree on the latter. But I also believe there are separate prosecutors in this area. We're learning as we go. That's what you see in the loverboy cases, with the evidence and the punishment. Would the Minister please come back to this in the next progress report? Does he want to take a good look at that again? After all, it does not feel very just, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u144	On that last point, Mrs van der Burg and I agree very quickly. A state's attorney has only one goal in mind. It's also true that there are special prosecutors, but I just hadn't talked about it yet. That is why there was a misunderstanding between Mrs van der Burg and me. But those prosecutors are there. And the moment they arrive, they also want to achieve an optimal intervention. I will understand myself with the Public Prosecutor's Office to see what the challenges are facing and what solutions they have to deal with. We can include this in the progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u146	Conversations with the field give the impression that when you call the police, they act quickly. I told you that in my contribution. If you go to Safe Home, it'll take a little longer. Then the question is: is it a notification or is it an advice? Does the Minister recognize that? How can we ensure that both worlds can learn more from each other? In other words, how can we exchange good experiences?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u147	I cannot say that I recognize it, because I have not yet been able to make the work visits in this field. However, I am happy to accept Mrs Bergkamp's suggestion. I note, however, that I will probably have an opportunity in my agenda only after the end of the Presidency. First of all, I would like to congratulate and thank Mrs Bergkamp for her compliment. I think it is good that it is also said that a police report is being properly picked up. That's pretty good at 95,000 reports a year. I would like to receive that compliment and also pass it on to the national police. Safe Home is mainly a responsibility of the Secretary of State. My task is above all to promote cooperation. That's automatically part of how you can learn from each other. What's even more important to me is that the correct report ends up in the right place. Sometimes that is the police, but often a notification at Safe Home will be much better, because there you can take a much wider range of measures than the police can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u148	I am pleased that the Minister is taking D66's suggestion and going to work after the Presidency. Hopefully, he will be able to feedback on this in the progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u149	Or in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u150	Or in a debate, fine. It is very good that the Minister takes it as a compliment, but I am trying to balance the debate. I have indicated in my contribution that I have a great deal of respect for the people who work for Safe Home and who have a very complex task. I would like to add that, otherwise we may get an unbalanced view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u151	That gives me the opportunity to express respect in my position as well. All the people who are active in this field, I think, work with an incredible effort and drive and a huge awareness of the importance of their work. This also applies, of course, to the partners around it, such as the Council for the Protection of Children or the Probation of Probation. Of course, you may be critical if things are not going well somewhere, but we must realise that the way these people take up their duties deserves a lot of praise. We, Mrs Bergkamp, would like to give this praise to them tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u152	That seems to me to be a good end to the response of the rulers. I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term. There is. Is there a need for a few minutes' suspension? There isn't one. I shall now give the floor to the first speaker, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u153	Mr. Chairman. I always find it very pleasant when young people are interested in politics. I know there's a young man watching this debate tonight, Niek. He's very socially involved. I think it is important to encourage young people to look at Politics 24. I think the chairman agrees with me. I just wanted to mention that separately, Niek. Today we have discussed a very important issue: child abuse and domestic violence. We find each other in the goal, but sometimes we differ on the way to it. It is good that we find each other on many topics in this debate. I still have concerns about the families and the young people on the waiting lists. That is why I have tabled two motions on this subject, together with Mrs Kooiman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that six out of ten Safe Home Organisations are facing waiting lists;]] [[noting that two thirds of the Safe Home Organisations do not have sufficient oversight of the safety of families on those waiting lists;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State cannot rule out the possibility of having children on the waiting list who actually need urgent assistance;]] [[Whereas an improvement plan for organisations is being launched;]] [[believes that people should go for systems;]] [[calls on the government to appoint priority number one in the improvement plan for the handling of waiting lists and to inform the Chamber within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Youth Ministry concludes that none of the Safe Home Organisation meets all the requirements to have the basic conditions in order;]] [[noting that the Safe Home Organisations also have to deal with waiting lists and have insufficient view of families and households on these waiting lists;]] [[noting that inspections state that Safe Home Organisations often suffer from limited financial resources;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, to examine whether the funds at Safe Home Organisations are sufficient, and if this is not the case, to propose a structural solution to the Chamber for the Spring Paper,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28345-160]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28345-161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u154	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State talks about follow-up routes, improvement plans and quality reports. He said that we want to move towards covering networks of sustainable and effective quality Safe Home organisations and that we need to invest our competences in a sharp way. I have heard so much woolly language today that we can knit a sweater out of it. I have heard that Mr Sprokkereef is going to solve everything as some kind of superhero or superman. I wish him every success, of course, but I really want this Secretary of State to be the superman by saying: we are actually going to come up with a solution. That is precisely why I have tabled two motions with Mrs Bergkamp. I have a very nice motion myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Safe Home Organisations face waiting lists;]] [[believes that children and victims of domestic violence should be helped as soon as possible, even after the investigation of Safe Home;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State is responsible for youth aid and the Chamber should be able to control the cabinet and have the right information;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a national inventory of the waiting lists for (intensive) youth aid and to forward it to the Chamber on a quarterly basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28345-162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u155	Mr. Chairman. During the suspension, my colleagues asked why I was so quiet. Well, I'm quiet about it, too, 'cause it's kind of bothering me. For this period of government, we have covered that cut of 450 million, but we all know that within a year there will be new elections and new election programmes, that this Secretary of State will carry a whole pile of bleeding files under his arm and that we will have to turn back a lot. I've missed a few points in the Secretary of State's response. In the run-up to the Youth Act he said: I am not just throwing youth aid over the fence to the municipalities; no, we are going to do it differently. The Secretary of State told us that doing otherwise would make youth aid cheaper. So for now, we don't see any of that. I hope the Secretary of State will be able to return to that in the second term. How can the money for youth aid be used cheaper and better by the municipalities? We're getting this signal now. Such waiting lists for people, not only for children but also for elderly people who are being abused, are, of course, unacceptable and indicate that there is not enough money or that the money is being spent wrongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u156	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their commitments. This issue is extremely important and has very profound consequences for those who experience it. We all talk to people who have experienced this or we come across people who are being treated there during work visits; you often don't get that in cold clothes. We really need to get this subject straight. In any case, I am pleased that the deadlines have been set within which it must in principle be in order. I await the reports with interest. I have often made the point, also in the run-up to the Youth Act, that trust doctors should be available, especially in order to be able to shape communication with general practitioners, psychiatrists and so on. So I am assuming the commitment that it is really in order in September 2016 and that this 24/7 availability is somehow regulated. I asked for the deadlines for completing the investigations, including the triage that Mr Sprokkereef will be looking at. Can the Secretary of State see if there can be significant improvements by the summer of 2016? He already looks difficult, but it would be particularly pleasant if, at least before the summer, strong improvements had already been made at the Safe Home Organizations, given the seriousness for a number of children, adults and older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u157	Mr. Chairman. The reason we're together is a worrying report. In yesterday's letter, but also in the reactions we received from the inspection, we see that it is being started. That's good, but the basics really need to be in order, as the Secretary of State says. Assuming that the employees have done a lot of work, the Secretary of State said this even though it remains important that the points of improvement have been removed in the next consultation on progress reports. I welcome the careful commitments made by the Secretary of State, but as a stick behind the door, not as a stick to strike, I still have two motions on which I would like to make a judgment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas domestic violence, child abuse and elder abuse are common and structural problems;]] [[Whereas all forms of violence in dependency relationships are serious and deserve attention;]] [[Whereas an overly explicit focus on one of these forms of violence in the transition of the Safe Home Design may have negative consequences for the handling of the other forms of violence and accumulated expertise should not be jeopardised in the process of development of the Safe Home Organisations;]] [[Whereas the objective of Safe Home as a central hotline for all forms of violence in dependence relationships is the pooling of experience with and expertise of the former Support Points Domestic Violence, General Intelligence Points Child Abuse;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the expertise on and attention is given to the various forms of violence in dependency relationships among municipalities, Safe Home, police and justice between domestic violence, child abuse and elder abuse,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Volp, Mr Otwin van Dijk and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28345-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u158	I'm going very fast, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that one million people are victims of domestic violence every year in the Netherlands, more than 119.00 children are abused and an estimated 200,000 elderly people over 65 years of age are abused;]] [[Whereas the approach can only succeed in a well-functioning chain and we need to know from all the links in the chain, both within the care and in the field of justice, locally and nationally, how they function, separately and in coherence;]] [[Whereas domestic violence, child abuse and elder abuse need to be monitored in a structural manner in order to identify and address problems in the approach;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for structural monitoring of the approach to domestic violence, child abuse and elder abuse of both the care chain and the justice policy and to inform the Court thereof within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Volp, Mr Otwin van Dijk and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28345-164]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u159	Mr. Chairman. Last night I watched the broadcast of Pauw, in which the situation of Roelofarendsveen was also discussed. It'll keep you quiet. I have great respect for the director of the Safe Home Organisation who dares to stick her neck out and has the nerve to give a number of signals that there is not working well within the Safe Home Organisations, without speaking to the people themselves. Today I get a double feeling. On the one hand, I hear the Secretary of State say that more monitoring is being done in squares, reports and checkboxes, and on the other hand the Secretary of State says that he is not running away from it. We do not have a motion today, but we would like to keep the Secretary of State to his words. The CDA interprets them as a promise and a commitment. He's not running away from it. We are going to solve the problems together, with the aldermen, with the Safe Home Organisations and with the Secretary of State, because the Empire has an important mission to make the transition go well before it is too late and people get between shore and ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u160	Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u161	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the motions, I will first answer some specific questions. Ms Van der Burg explicitly asked whether it was settled in September 2016 that trust doctors are available 24/7. I said in the debate that the UNG is indeed in agreement with the inspection with the intention to regulate this properly. The aldermen stated that this would be the case in September 2016. I agree with the Chamber that I will specifically inform her about this in the progress report so that she can look into it. The same applies to improvements in the timely triage. This is already being worked on by the Safe Home Organisations and the aldermen. The inspection will continue to monitor this until it is settled, but I also agree that I would like to inform the Chamber about this in the progress report. Mrs Agema asked me to paraphrase it a little bit if the new youth system is working. We are now beginning to see that fewer children are in the in-house setting and are more likely to be helped out of work. Institutions and municipalities say the same to each other. At the front, ggz expertise can be enabled, so that children are no longer over- or under-treated. In some cases, we're really getting there sooner. As a result, I have the optimism that the whole movement that we have set in motion leads to, perhaps not within a year, but certainly in some time, that we can get to it sooner and that we can see whether something is going wrong, not only if something has gone wrong, but also by looking in the families earlier. This does indeed result in a better quality of care provision. We're seeing kids because of it before. That is exactly the point that we always see with each other in terms of calamities: if only we had the information together. I note that these opportunities are now available. We agree that things are not going well everywhere, but I am optimistic about that and have good hopes for it. I thank Mrs Agema for the tile. I'll give it a nice place. Tile wisdom is sometimes fun and sometimes not, but I can have this one. I have been looking again at the site tiltjewijsheiden.nl and I came across one that says: "Let us respect each other's opinion, even if yours is incorrect." I will not put it on a tile, but if Mrs Agema appreciates it, I will. I like to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u162	I see a nod in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u163	I'm gonna take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u164	You're hanging on it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u165	Mr. Chairman. I'll go into the motions. In the Berkkamp/Kooiman motion in part No. 160 the government is asked to appoint the waiting lists as a priority in the approach to the project and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly. That's part of the plan. The inspection's on top of it. I consider the motion to be a policy support and leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the Berkkamp/Kooiman motion in part No. 161 the government is invited, with the VNG, to examine whether the resources are sufficient and, if not, to propose a structural solution to the Chamber in the spring paper. This is a form of entrapment of the municipalities. I can imagine this happening, but I do not think it is right at this stage. Municipalities have been provided with structural resources to deal with a number of issues, including youth aid. A number of cases have now been identified. On the one hand, they must lead to improvement. Municipalities are working on that. On the other hand, there is Mr Sprokkereef's project, which gives us more structural insight into the bottlenecks and the solutions. I do not think it is right to set in motion a financial route without sufficient vision. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u166	Then how does the Court know in the spring note whether there are sufficient resources? Surely the Chamber should be able to check if there is a financial problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u167	The distribution of funding for, among other things, youth aid, but also wider, is based on an objective needs model. We gave that to the congregations and agreed with them. Let us not look at a bottleneck every time on the one hand or on the other hand to see whether new financial agreements should be made. Let's give you some multiannual financial security. When we find bottlenecks somewhere, we should not immediately conclude that there must be financial consequences. We have to look at whether a bottleneck leads to deterioration and whether there are hiccups in it. We can follow this on the basis of the inspection reports and the project by Mr Sprokkereef. We can always talk about whether there is a financial problem. But to say that we are only going down that path, on the basis of a identified bottleneck in one area, I find really wrong and too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u168	Let me put one more question to the Secretary of State. We see an increase in the number of reports and we see that the capacity is inadequate at Safe Home. Then it is a simple calculation that one of the problems can be that there are too few resources? In order to complete our task of checking, should we, as a Chamber, have a look at this for the Spring Note?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u169	We have agreed in making funds available to the municipalities that they have the freedom to spend them and that they must organise the organisations in the way they think is right. Then it is primarily up to the municipalities to take the measures appropriate to the identified bottlenecks. On the basis of the monitoring, the Sprokkereef report and the inspections, we can see whether the municipalities are sufficiently capable of doing so. We should not say in advance: there is a bottleneck and that means that extra money must be made available by the Empire. That would be a bit of the reverse, so I'm sticking to my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u170	Then there's the third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u171	In the Kooiman/Bergkamp motion in part No. 162 calls for a national inventory of the waiting lists for intensive youth aid and for them to be sent to the Chamber every quarter. We have a decentralised system. I believe that the information on waiting times and waiting lists should be seen primarily at local level and should be resolved. We have a system with monitoring and inspection to see if that goes well. That's how we get that information. I would point out that we have just declared, in the first motion, the approach of waiting lists to priority number one. On that basis, information will also emerge. For that reason, I would like to discourage this motion. Then I'll join the Volp c.s. motion. in piece No. 163, which calls for the guarantee of expertise on different forms of violence...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u172	I see that Mrs Van der Burg has a question on the opinion on a motion which is not hers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u173	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u174	Well, that's not so common, but, uh, we're in the middle of something, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u175	I think it's customary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u176	No, that's not customary, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u177	I am concerned with the judgment on the first motion, on item No. 160. We agree that waiting lists, if they lead to dangerous situations, are undesirable. We also exchanged in the debate that, in order to determine that, a triage should take place within the time limit, to name but a few. If we give the waiting lists priority number one, what do we get? Isn't it true that it has to be done and done, as the inspection says? Those conditions must be in order, precisely in order to get a clear view of them. That's why I'm a little surprised at that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u178	I come to that judgment, because it says: the approach to waiting lists. That is what we need to see in a broad sense. That could lead us to say that the triage needs to be better. It may be that the explanation of the reports has to be different or that there are a number of things that need to be changed in business. I think this is a justified addition to Mrs Van der Burg. The approach to waiting lists is not only that we have to do something with that number. It also means that we have to look at the information and the system. We also need to look at reports and triage. As far as I am concerned, this is part of Mr Sprokkereef's project.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u179	In fact, I have to read the motion in such a way that the very important points mentioned by the inspection were all in it, now priority number one, and that they will be resolved within six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u180	Sure. Some of these points are part of "the basis on order," as the inspection has indicated, including the visibility of the risks posed by the waiting lists. We agree on that. In this respect, we state that these priorities are at the top of the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u181	The interruption does not lead to a revised judgment, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u182	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u183	Very good. Then we're on the fourth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u184	It does not lead to a revised opinion, but it does, taking into account the comments made, for the record, sorry, President, for the minutes. In the motion-Volp c.s. in piece No. 163 is asked to ensure the expertise of different forms of violence in dependency relationships. In the debate, I have shown understanding. If the proposers attach a verdict on this motion, then that will be: support policy and judgment Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 164 in which the government is asked to shape the structural monitoring of the approach to domestic violence, child abuse and elder abuse of both the care chain and the justice policy, and to make proposals to this end within six months. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. Unless Mrs Volp's gonna keep me off that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u185	Maybe we can fine-tune it a little bit more. The Secretary of State indicated that he would worry about it and that he would at least give a preliminary reflection in the upcoming progress report. If that's the case with me, I suggest that within six months he actually comes up with something more than a peak session evaluation. That's what I'd like to see. I very much welcome his cautious commitment, but the motion is even more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u186	The motion gives me a little more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u187	Is that really going to lead to something more than a reflection of your thinking session?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u188	Yes, but it is up to Mrs Volp to judge whether that is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u189	Eventually, always. For me, this is a clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u190	In this way, we will conclude with a negotiating process on the interpretation of the motions. I thank the rulers very much for both their presence and their answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-12.u191	I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
