ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome Minister Asscher. There is no limit to the number of interruptions, but occasionally some self-limitation and an interruption always in two stages. I call Mrs Karabulut of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. All Dutch have freedom of religion. You are free to experience your religion individually or with fellow believers. We have a separation from church and state, but religion can never be the solution for the government. We are not about the individual beliefs or the disbelief of people. That's a big good. It becomes a different story when people or organisations, relying on a religion, want to deprive others of freedoms or do not recognize the secular State. Unfortunately, we all know the sad stories of Dutch youngsters who, for example, travel all the way to Syria to join the IS-fascists. It also becomes problematic when salafistic organizations, such as the alFirah Mosque and related foundations, teach children to abhor others. Children are taught to abhor unbelievers, to turn their heads when they see a church and to strictly adhere to their Islamic identity. Not parents, not children interacting with others determine who they are, no the ultraorthodox members of the faith community determine that for these families. Parents tell me that their children are getting more traditional dresses. According to Professor of Pedagogy Micha de Winter, this educational ideal is at odds with democratic values and in this way closed spirits are created. I agree with that. It is terrible when a generation of children in a parallel society is raised with the idea that their fellow believers, who are not the same, are not good. Is the Minister prepared to arrange supervision of Koran schools, for example through the Education Inspectorate? We must not close our eyes to the breeding ground for the growth of Islamism, political Islam. They provide people with a false need for security and perspective. Pillars in Utrecht, where the alFirah mosque stands, is one of the poorest neighbourhoods in the Netherlands. SCP research shows that many Turkish and Moroccan-Dutch young people are not only isolated because of religious influence, but also because they feel that they do not count in society. The racist dung of recent days, as well as the Rotterdam study, which shows that people with an Islamic background are discriminated against and polarisation is the other way around, shows that we have a serious problem of violent polarisation in society. Does the Minister recognise that these factors also play a role and feed Islamists to recruit people? How's he gonna do something about this? Does the Minister recognise that organisations such as AlFirah should not be supported in any way by the government, but that the government should help meet the needs of the people, especially those around them? What is the Minister's reaction to the fact that some mosque leaders say they can't fight the ultraorthodox influence, boards that are being taken over, and people who feel abandoned by the government? We need not less, but more radical democracy. The framework of the rule of law must be strengthened and monitored. Ideas can and should not be forbidden. That's counterproductive. In recent years, we have made and received a large number of proposals in this Chamber to limit the influence of Islamists. First of all, the government should not bake sweet sandwiches with salafists. We need a list of salafistic organizations. The foreign funding from the Gulf States of prayer homes in the Netherlands must stop. They export the ideas and who pays determines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u3	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u4	Why aren't the Minister and the Cabinet implementing this motion? Come up with proposals to fight segregation instead of perpetuating. To my great surprise, the Minister does not give any or minimal implementation to these proposals supported by a majority of the Chamber. What is the Minister gonna do? How dare the cabinet ignore these proposals more or less, given the problem we are facing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. The politically correct magic formula for Islam is nowadays: Salafism is bad, the Islamic State is bad, but most Muslims are a kind of article-31 reformers. What is Salafism, according to the Minister? I would like to hear a clear definition in the answer. My second question to the Minister is why, in his view, Salafism should be combated, but not Islam as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u6	I can see the first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u7	I was just triggered by the introduction. Indeed, salafism, political Islam, is a different story than Muslims, people with an Islamic background, who profess their faith. Is Mr De Graaf suggesting that Islamists and Muslims in general are also one big problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u8	I didn't say that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u9	So you also make that distinction: there are problems and there are problematic aspects that also have to do with Islam, but that doesn't mean that all Muslims and people with an Islamic background are problematic?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u10	In fact, I never said that. I think we're pretty quick to agree on that. The point is that Islam is an ideology. We have often shared this and we have often said things about it in debates. There are a lot of Muslims who barely know what play they're in. That's right. In the last general consultation Integration, the VVD Group struggled horribly with its vision of Islam. Islam is according to the VVD a religion but politically, jihadist salafism must be combated. Then spokesperson Potters said: we can count on our attention. So that wasn't very concrete. There was mainly wrestling with definitions, but no tendency to act from the VVD. With such a government partner, it is very easy for a minister to continue to engage in dialogue, to give Islam an exception position and to look very hard away from the misery that has been poured out over the world by this ideology for 1,400 years. More importantly, the Minister of V and J and those of Social Affairs and Employment are at the forefront of hashtaging the hardest "give it up for Ramadan" in order to avoid radicalisation. This week we saw a nice report on the website Geen Stijm, a beautiful piece. Such hashtag activism, as there was with "bring our girls back," is nice on Twitter, but also the ultimate proof that we as a Western society have completely lost our resilience against totalitarian ideologies. In this context, I would like to ask the following question: why should radicalisation be avoided if, according to the definition of the politically correct elite, Islam is an ordinary religion, a religion of peace? Why does this cabinet think it needs the Ramadan to control Muslims? Islam isn't a problem, is it? If Islam is the religion of peace, why do you have to tackle its radicalisation? That doesn't make any sense. I would like to hear a clear answer from the Minister. Why is only Salafism being dealt with? That is, by the way, cabinet language, because in reality nothing happens; it is the motto. Violence preachers still proclaim their rancid message in Dutch mosques every week. How is that possible? In the announcements, mosques keep the names hidden. What's the Minister gonna do with that? The PVV believes that mosques who organise conferences should simply make clear which preachers they invite. Then action can be taken. The fact that they're hiding the names is grounds for suspicion. Not only salafism is a problem, Islam is the problem. People know the PVV feels that way. In addition to salafism, there are more pavers for the worldwide caliphate, for example the Muslim Brotherhood. It was founded by Hassan al-Banna in 1928. It was the first disciplined organization created to achieve the goals of Islam. That's what you need to see in the time of disciplined organizations. Said Qutb and Yusuf al-Qradawi are known names, just like Mohamed Morsi. The purpose of the Muslim Brotherhood is to replace secular, democratic governments with an Islamic caliphate under Sharia law. The Muslim Brotherhood has been infiltrated worldwide in numerous political parties and organisations. Think of Hamas but also the Blue Mosque in Amsterdam. By focusing measures unilaterally on salafistic organizations and mosques, you risk not only losing sight of the Muslim Brotherhood, but also giving it the opportunity to expand its influence. I ask the Minister whether he recognizes the danger arising from this fraternity in particular and whether he intends to take action, starting with a major investigation into the supporters, the networks and the infiltration of the Muslim Brotherhood in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u11	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u12	I need my last sentence, Mr. Chairman. The PVV believes that the Netherlands should de-islamize in order to protect our freedom and achievements. As long as only Salafism is tackled, Islam remains a breeding ground for violence, oppression, hatred of women, hatred of Jews, homophobia and all that is hatred of the West. We have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u13	Every time the PVV talks about de-islamisation I will come forward and ask what the PVV means by that in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u14	Well, that the influence of Islam should be reduced, simply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u15	No, it's not that simple, such words aren't that simple. These kind of terms are based on a force. "De-Islamizing" suggests something quite different than just the influence of Islam. Let me just ask: does the PVV still have freedom of religion? Can Muslims here in the Netherlands still confess their faith and mosques still exist, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u16	People need to be able to confess their faith. Freedom of religion is thus guaranteed by the PVV, but the freedom of ideologies that want to overthrow our rule of law is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u17	Shortly, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you for your coulance, Mr. Chairman. Of course, this is not an answer to the question. The question was very specific: does the PVV have the freedom of religion? This includes sub-questions: can there be mosques in the Netherlands and Muslims can confess their faith, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u19	I've answered that instantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u20	No, you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u21	Now you're gonna stay in discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yes, that is the purpose of the debate, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u23	Yes, it is a debate, but you repeat your questions. Perhaps Mr Marcouch will succeed, because he also wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u24	This is important, because this debate is about freedom of religion. The PVV wants clear-cut language. We want to hear the PVV's clear-cut language about where it stands with regard to freedom of God. That is a fundamental right in our Constitution. Perhaps you could comment on the report on incidents of discriminatory violence against Muslims which was announced this morning. How do you feel about restricting religious freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u25	There is no head and no tail to Mr Marcouch's question, because he starts somewhere in Groningen and ends up in Zeeland, just to put it on the map. He asks four questions and I don't think that's useful in an interruption, but okay, I'll try. I have been clear to Mr Sjoerdsma: freedom of religion is our priority. It's very simple. Everyone here needs to be able to confess their religion. We are against ideologies such as Nazism but also Islam, period. That Muslims feel threatened in the Netherlands? I understand that, because Muslims kill each other all over the world. I imagine it's hard to live within such an ideology. I can't imagine much at the point of those incidents. This week we had such an incident in The Hague. Appie van de Haagse Markt and another person whose name I have forgotten, together with a journalist of De Telegraaf, have been refused here on the Square. I don't think you should refuse anyone who behaves normally. But what they both said in their response was quite distinctive and also nice to include in that report: "we think we have been refused because of our origins." It was only said "we think." D66 stood in the Hague council on his back legs. I think that's a long-toe story. You're being denied; that's the point. If the other one hasn't told you why you're being refused, don't say it was your origin. Then you get reports like short fuse, thin skin and long toes and statements like: we are all discriminated against. No, most Muslims in the Netherlands are just being pampered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u26	The PVV is something of an ideology, but Islam is a religion. I understand that Mr De Graaf stands for freedom of religion. But is he also willing to defend it for Muslims? This morning's report from Rotterdam shows that people are beaten, spit and excluded precisely because they are Muslims, and therefore enjoy that freedom of religion. Where does Mr De Graaf stand when he says that we are in favour of freedom of religion and we are defending it? Does he defend them for Muslims, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u27	Islam as an ideology we fight. Furthermore, I think you should keep your hands off everyone, so no violence and no spit. I've been spit on myself before, and that's annoying. It's horrible and it's very humiliating. But I do have a thick skin and continue on the way in. I still need to hear the finesses from the report. The last report I read on this type of case concerned education. That was a really lame report with nothing but made-up business. So I'm going to have to look into this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u28	It is very easy to say about what has happened over the past few years, which in our view was partly caused by the PVV.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u29	I'd like to make it a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr Kuzu finishes his point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u31	Doesn't Mr De Graaf find it very easy to put that away as something that doesn't exist and to play down it? Many people in this society have to deal daily with these forms of hatred and aggression, as can be seen from the figures of the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u32	I'll get to the personal point first. Mr Kuzu begins his interruption by saying that the PVV is the cause of people being spit on. That cause and that effect don't match. He'll have to come up with proof of his claims first. I support this with the latest report on education. I also said that I have not been able to fully read the report this morning. It is also difficult to fully understand that before you start a debate at 10.15 p.m. But the ease with which Mr Kuzu blames me for trivializing things is much greater than that the PVV would cause people to be spit on. Get a grip!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr De Graaf and the PVV like to talk about Islam and Muslims in general. Our party talks with Muslims instead of Muslims. I have recently experienced an incident in Rotterdam, if you can already speak of incidents in which the climate was created by the PVV. I say it again: there are people in our society who consider it justified to attack people in response to the effects of Mr Wilders' speeches or Mr De Graaf's speeches in this Chamber. Mr De Graaf is indeed responsible for this. Does he want to see that or can't he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u34	Why don't you come up with some evidence first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u35	You know that this is too easy an answer, Mr President. I can see you nodding. I would like to ask Mr De Graaf to go into this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u36	No, I find that you disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u37	The way in which Mr Kuzu brings this is part of the problem. That's why we're getting reports like this. And that's why I said that the education report isn't right. Read that again, because there was nothing going on. It is precisely Mr Kuzu's rhetoric that contributes to the long-term behaviour of those who complain. Of course, there are people who are being attacked, and that is what I'm saying: you don't touch anyone! I've just been clear and clear about that and you don't have to cry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u38	This is yet another debate in which one or more parties ask the PVV whether the position of the PVV means that we have freedom of religion in this country, except for Islam. The answer of the PVV is always: for the PVV Islam is not a religion but an ideology. Can Mr De Graaf explain what is the difference between religion Islam and ideology Islam in the definition of the PVV? If you follow the PVV's reasoning, what is the difference between an ideology and a religion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr Heerma's question suggests that there are two kinds of Islam, but that is not the case. Just look at Recep Tayyip Erdogan. He says there's only one Islam. Mr Heerma is shaking no, but he is just asking what is the difference between religion Islam and ideology Islam. That suggests there are two things. Islam is one of two; let me be clear about that, as the rest was clear. An ideology means that the life of a person, as described in charters, books and manuscripts, from birth to death and from getting up again until the next morning, is determined by all kinds of behavior and that the laws are imposed from above. It's very simple. That's what you see in communism, that's what you see in Nazism, and that's what you see in Islam with, for example, Sharia. You can see it in the manuals. It says, for example, that people must respect Muhammad's life. Then you're far beyond religion; then you're just an ideology.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr De Graaf is a bit freewheeling here because he does not have an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u41	That's total bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u42	It is my turn now, Mr De Graaf. We have a certain order in this debate. I understand that the question is difficult, but perhaps Mr De Graaf can think about it again. The essence is that the PVV keeps saying that it is not a religion but an ideology. The definition of an ideology that Mr De Graaf gives here from the loose wrist, could also be given of very orthodox movements within Judaism, but the PVV finds them a religion. If this is the core of the PVV's reasoning, explain clearly what the PVV is the difference between an ideology and a religion. I ask this again, because I think this is a mistake. The answer from just now really didn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mr Heerma says that the answer just didn't make any sense, but it was very clear. Movements, and therefore ideologies, that want to determine everything for people from the beginning to the end of life and from day to day, you call ideologies and not religion. Of course you can pray. That's fine; anyone can think of that. But if you go into Islam, you will see that only 5%, perhaps even 4%, is indeed a religious part of Islam and that for the rest it is mainly "laws, laws, laws." In Christianity it is mainly missionary. In Judaism, it's very legal. Islam combines both. That was another gap in the religious market in about the year 600, in the year 500 so much. Those two have been combined into a legitimate thing that is missionary and global conquest and that wants to determine people's lives completely. I repeat: it wants to determine people's lives completely! What more do you want from proof that it is not just a religion but much more an ideology?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u44	No one can deny that there are organisations or people who indeed see that religion as a political ideology and who experience it that way, exhort it and act accordingly. But 99.9% of people with an Islamic background, confessing or not, experience religion individually or with each other within the limits of the law. What Mr De Graaf is now carrying out is a totalitarian ideology. He decides for me, and for everyone else in this country and internationally, that I would behave undemocratically because of that religious background. That's abject and undemocratic, isn't it? That doesn't fit in with someone who claims to stand up for freedom, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u45	I see the struggle with Mrs Karabulut and with the other MPs. That's exactly why it's happening. If you don't understand Islam, you will indeed end up in such a struggle. I have always talked about Islam as an ideology that we are fighting. Mrs Karabulut always comes up with the same question about a number of Muslims who pray a little, read the Koran, do that sort of thing. But they do so with the same books in their hand or on the bookshelf and with the same background as those who commit the attacks. It's two-and-a-half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u46	It's not a struggle. It is as if Mr De Graaf has been in the madrassa and has been completely brainwashed and as if he is now trying to continue it from the other side by accusing all the people who do not do so that they...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u47	I'm not accusing these people!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u48	Yes, you do!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u49	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u50	You accuse those people of wanting to deprive others of their freedom from an ideological framework while you are doing so. If you were to stop doing that, Mr De Graaf, and indeed endorse our Constitution, we would tackle the people who are crossing the line, like organisations, even when they are Islamists, and we would address the social problems in the Netherlands instead of selling them out, as you do, then we would get ahead. Then we would also not suffer from the polarisation that you are doing in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u51	You will speak again through the chairman, Mrs Karabulut. I give Mr De Graaf the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u52	I don't hear a question, just a confused story. It is not the PVV that invented Islam, it is not the PVV that implements the Islamic rules and it is not the PVV that forces people in the Netherlands to impose the Islamic ideological rules. If you do not want to understand that, then you are part of the problem, so I say to Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u53	From now on, you will speak through the President, Mr De Graaf. I call Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. Let me first say that the title of this debate, 'Influence of ultra-orthodox Muslims in mosques', is misplaced. The reason for this debate is the reports of increasing influence of salafism in Dutch mosques and organisations. Salafists reject the Islamic traditions and law schools developed over the centuries, and thus orthodoxy. They reject them because they go back to an idealistic Islamic past based on a literal reading of religious sources. That makes Salafism a fundamentalist movement and not an orthodox one. I point this out because I think this is important for the purity of the debate and so that we do not equate every strict-believing Muslim. We are conducting this debate in response to reports that the influence of salafism is growing in Dutch mosques. That is worrying, for salafism is a flow within Islam that wants to return to pure Islam from the time of prophet Muhammad. Salafist young people would try to take over mosque authorities or be unbearable within a mosque. The AIVD confirms that more and more mosques are under the influence of salafism and that this causes tensions in a number of cases. We have also been able to read this in various reports in the NRC, which have led us to request this debate. Several preachers convey a salafistic message, which is gaining popularity especially among young people. According to the AIVD, the message of these new salafistic preachers leans against jihadism in some cases. These young people are then given more influence in other mosques, as not everyone can cope with this. Freedom of religion is a great asset for the VVD. It is not for nothing that we stress time and time again that we distinguish between what people think and what they do. No matter how reprehensible the thoughts of some people are, we cannot and do not want to limit them. Freedom to profess a religion must be respected, especially within the walls of religious societies. That is to say, a frontier is crossed to hate-sowing or to threaten public security, with the aim of undermining or overthrowing the democratic rule of law. I'll come back to that later. First, I need something else from my heart. However much I respect the freedom of religion, that does not mean that I cannot be very surprised at the way in which some people within faith and also within Islam look at society, of which they themselves are voluntarily part. These people have chosen to live in a country with a democratic rule of law, where it is normal for men and women to be equal, just like gays and straights, believers and non-believers, and where, for example, it is normal for women to wear the clothes they want. If you choose to live here, you have to respect that. You don't have to do it yourself, but respect for someone else is the least you can do in this country. The VVD is therefore concerned that some institutions actively oppose integration by rejecting the democratic rule of law, calling for intolerance, discrimination, hatred against other groups, anti-Semitism, but also anti-Sjiism. It is not for nothing that my colleague, Mr Tellegen, has been fighting for a long time to stop allowing foreign clergy, for example, who are inciting hatred and not accepting Dutch society. As I said, freedom of religion is one of the core values of our democracy, but when hatred or violence are preached or security is at stake, we must be able to intervene. That is why I took the initiative last month to be able, as an extreme measure, to abolish religious societies that really want to undermine or overthrow our democracy. That is the ultimate measure, because the VVD prefers that such societies in the Netherlands take their responsibility to prevent such preachers from being offered a stage together with the government and that radical influences are prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u55	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u56	I will conclude with two questions to the Minister. My first question is how does the Minister actually keep an eye on what is happening in mosques at the moment and whether in sermons the border of hate-sowing or the undermining of democracy is being crossed. Is there any proactive detection? My second question is how cooperation goes with Dutch mosques and imams, especially when it comes to the resilience of mosque authorities to prevent radical influences. Organisations such as the CMO and the Council of Moroccan mosques The Netherlands are simply frequently asked this question of help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u57	A predecessor of Mr Azmani pointed out in an opinion paper that, as far as the VVD is concerned, freedom of religion should be restricted. His own-initiative proposal would certainly be a bit of a dent in that. Did Mr Azmani take over that part and that position?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u58	No, I didn't take over that position. The VVD stands for freedom of religion. We don't want to limit it either. That seems to me to be an appropriate response to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u59	It is good to hear that the VVD changed its mind at that point, because it was a "slippery wreck." There was a risk that the VVD would run into an obstacle, difficult to return to the original starting point of Article 6 of the Constitution. Happy to change that position of the VVD. Hopefully we can continue to see that in the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u60	It has never been a position of the VVD to restrict the freedom of religion. I am not going to discuss what individual members of the VVD group indicate in an interview and how it is written down. Let it be clear and clear that the VVD stands for freedom of religion. We have been there for decades and will continue to be so over the coming decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr. Chairman. Previous speakers said it: in extreme salafism there is danger. Everyone knows the reports of Salafist organizations in the Netherlands which are not very visible and which have a great impact on the lives and beliefs of young people, with the risk of radicalisation leading to and even the deep sad risk of people travelling to join the most horrible organizations such as the Islamic State. The national government and the municipalities must do everything in their power, from confrontation to enforcement, to limit that danger. In this respect, the letter of 25 February contained a whole range of activities which this cabinet is engaged in. At the same time, my group, as has just been shown by my little interrupting debate with Mr De Graaf, refuses to assess entire groups on the basis of individual extremist behavior. We must also recognise that the polarising response to this phenomenon, which sometimes also happens in this debate, entails risks. Therefore, I have serious concerns about a party such as the VVD, which is anti-democratic here in this House, does not leave much room for the Constitution and actually wants to restrict the freedom of religion. I said "VVD." I apologize. Let me reword the sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u62	I was going to say, do you want to do this again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u63	I'm going to reword the sentence, Mr. President. Although Mr Azmani is more on the right side of the spectrum, he is certainly not on Mr De Graaf's side. The PVV is antidemocratic in this house, takes a walk with the Constitution and simply undermines the freedom of religion. The AIVD also talks about the risks: "It would be undesirable to brand the whole Salafist spectrum as a problem. Among a large group of young people, this can lead to incomprehension and resistance, because it could feed the perception that Muslims are perceived as "problem" in a generic sense." My group is opposed to this. My group is asking the Minister whether this stigmatisation and polarisation will not only increase this problem, because, as the AIVD also points out, it may lead to further withdrawal in its own circle. Organizations will then move underground. The view from agencies of radicalised young people who are still in the mosque disappears. I therefore ask the Minister to what extent, in his view, the firm and absurd attitude of some parties in this Chamber leads precisely to what the AIVD warns us about. I would like a response from the Minister. In addition, I am looking for concrete measures to keep these organisations strictly within the framework of the law and to punish individuals who break the law for this. For the sake of time, I'm gonna skip a few pieces, but I'm gonna go into some measures. The dubious financing from abroad must be restricted, especially if it supports undesirable practices. We also see that regimes such as Saudi Arabia are increasing their influence on organisations in the Netherlands. I have a few questions for the Minister. How often have measures been taken in recent years against terrorist financing in the Netherlands? Transparency of funding, so that we can see the origin of the money that ends up in religious institutions, is unlikelyly important. This would be discussed in the General Affairs Council in May. I ask the Minister what the results were. And what are the results of the fact that religious institutions now need to be transparent? For example, do we already have a view of these flows from abroad to religious institutions? I would also like to know from the Minister whether Saudi Arabia is keeping the government and the municipalities concerned informed of every euro that that country issues here for the benefit of religious institutions. I want to know if the government is aware of Saudi Arabia's financial expenditure in this country for religious institutions. I would like a response from Minister Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u64	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u65	Finally, my last two questions. What results have Dutch embassies achieved in talks with the financial authorities and donor organisations in Saudi Arabia? In Utrecht research is now taking place into the educational environment in the unrecognised education of the alFirah Mosque. Will the Minister assure me that he is prepared to have research on the educational environment in conjunction with the municipality wherever such worrying signals occur?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u66	I want to focus on the issue of funding. Does D66 share our view that financing from the Gulf States is, by definition, undesirable, because from there the export of the ideas of extreme Islam, Islamism, is taking place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u67	I do see a great deal of risk there. From my own experience in a previous life as a diplomat, I have seen how funding from such countries in countries such as Afghanistan, Pakistan and Sudan was used to mislead people in a vulnerable position and to make them more extreme than they actually are. I see there's a big risk of that. However, it has not been said that all funding from these countries is intended or has that effect. In this respect, I believe that the motion tabled by Mrs Karabulut and Mr Potters is worded in a very clear way: whether it should be prohibited or it should be done through the government, the Dutch government, is to be understood. That is why I asked Minister Asscher if he was aware of these flows of funding from Saudi Arabia. I am curious about that, because in France, every euro goes through Paris. There is very transparent how the money is spent. I wonder whether this is the case in the Netherlands and how Saudi Arabia does it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u68	That's clear. I am particularly surprised that the cabinet seems inclined not to carry out this motion and sees all kinds of bears on the road. I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that we must then clear up the bumps that exist in order to ensure that it ends in the end. I understand his point and I do not think you can put it that way. On the other hand, prayer houses are from and for local communities, and it is time that this became a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u69	I believe that Mrs Karabulut once again underlines the importance of transparency in funding and the importance of monitoring the administration, as well as the local authorities, of funding flows. She has also put this forward before. In this way, countries such as Saudi Arabia, led by a reprehensible regime, can be prevented from having unwanted influence on the local communities in the Netherlands. We should not want that, we should monitor it more clearly, and at least we should have transparency about it. I hope that Minister Asscher will be ready to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u70	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands the influence of salafism is growing. Mosques are increasingly being taken over by radical Muslims who reject any form of democracy. That is a very dangerous development, but the cabinet is doing virtually nothing to counter it. Almost every week, Islamic organisations do invite a preacher of violence who can spread his poisonous message in the Netherlands. They can preach the jihad here unhindered and even recruit Syrians. The cabinet continues to handle this very naively, despite warnings from the AIDV. For example, it refuses to implement the adopted VNL motion of colleague Bontes, which states that preachers of violence should always be banned from the Netherlands. I would like to hear why the cabinet continues to facilitate this form of violent Islamism. The cabinet must wake up and take firm steps. VNL therefore proposes the following. 1. Make sure that preachers of violence can never set foot on Dutch soil. Execute our motion. 2. Close mosques that invite preachers of violence, such as the alFirah mosque in Utrecht, the As-Soennah mosque in The Hague and the Arrahman mosque in Boskoop. I would like to hear from the Minister how many violence mosques have actually been closed in the Netherlands so far. 3. Finally, address the undesirable foreign funding of mosques. That has just been referred to. This certainly applies to funding from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. Finally, there is a need for a change of direction at local level as well. Mayors who continue to cooperate with salafistic mosques, such as the Mayor of The Hague Van Aartsen, should be called to order. In our opinion, it is unimaginable that the government is doing business with a mosque that facilitates and continues to invite jihad preachers. I would like to hear how the cabinet is going to act against this undermining of national policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u71	I have a question. Mr Van Klaver talks about preachers of violence while the rest of the Chamber uses the word "hate preacher" more often. I wonder what Mr Van Klaver's attitude is towards hate preachers who come to the Netherlands to spout their terrible ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u72	That's undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u73	I would like Mr Van Klaveren to give a slightly more detailed response because his party has tabled a bill that takes hate-sowing out of the Code of Criminal Law and makes it legal. How does this attitude of VNL relate to what Mr Van Klaveren just said about the preachers who actually come here to sow hatred?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u74	That's very clear. We are indeed a great opponent of bringing in preachers of violence. People who call for or incite violence must be absolutely banned, but if someone doesn't like or hate something, for example in the field of homosexuality, he should be able to say so. Pim Fortuyn also said that: it is undesirable, but it is possible. As soon as we cross the line and call for violence, this must be absolutely resisted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u75	I conclude that VNL actually says that hate preachers are welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u76	No, no, absolutely not, because that also contradicts integration. That's a separate chapter. There are also hate preachers in the Netherlands. You just have to take it hard. I believe that Mr Sjoerdsma of D66 refers here to freedom of expression. The difference between preachers of violence and preachers of hate does not see D66 as very different from VNL, especially given the statements made in the past by the chairman of the D66 group. VNL believes that preachers of violence should be tackled firmly and banned from the Netherlands. They don't have to be here. If preachers announce a message that we do not like but which does not encourage violence in a broad sense, then that must be possible. It's called freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mr. Chairman. The concerns about undermining activities arising from radical antidemocratic salafism in the Netherlands are great. Because of mosques themselves, the alarm clock is repeatedly sounding about the growing influence that salafists are trying to acquire. The AIVD also warns that salafism provides a breeding ground for radicalisation and a breeding ground for jihadists. The Chamber has repeatedly asked the Cabinet to better protect our society and our rule of law from the threat it poses. The letter sent to the cabinet on 25 February 2016 following the various motions that the Chamber had adopted on this issue, I found naive and disappointing because the cabinet is not prepared to take more legal measures to protect our democratic rule of law and society. The argument that the current legal instruments are sufficient for this is in stark contrast to reality. Ronselaars for the jihad use the glorification of terrorist violence consciously as a means of accessing young people, with the aim of radicalising them. We have to cut off IS here. Politicians who come no further than to say that the recruitment of the jihad and the glorification of terrorist violence fall within the scope of freedom of expression, in my opinion, fail to protect the freedoms that are dear to us. They also let despaired parents, who see their children slip away, stand in the cold. The naivety of a party such as the VVD on this point is further underlined by the fact that it still leaves the proposal of its then leader of the political group, now Prime Minister, to extract hate from the Penal Code, hanging over the market. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Klaveren also spoke about this discussion. This was originally a proposal from Mr Rutte, from the VVD's free-thinking area. That VVD proposal is still there. Legalizing hate-sowing means simply giving free rein to hate-sowing imams and recruiters for IS. Within Islam, an ideological battle is taking place. In his letter, the cabinet rightly speaks in full about supporting Muslims in their fight against radical forces. But not banning the glorification of terrorist violence puts these Muslims at a 1-0 disadvantage. Legalizing hate-sowing is like a kind of match fixing in favor of terrorists. Now a discussion that we have also had a great deal: the one about banning anti-democratic and Sharia parties. When are we gonna hear more about this? There's a Chambermove about to be taken and there's an investigation going on. We really need to send out a signal to those forces that want to overthrow our democracy and the rule of law. It also makes our democracy more resilient. In Germany, there is a more resilient democracy. There are opportunities to tackle and ban anti-democratic parties. In Germany, Hizb ut-Tahrir is prohibited. Anti-democratic right-wing extremist clubs can also be tackled there. When will we finally be able to see a proposal and work out for the cabinet? I will conclude with something that several predecessors have already mentioned: the approach of dubious foreign funding flows to mosques here to buy influence with that. The cabinet seems to be trapped in indiscretions. In the last letter it refers to the discussion of this issue in the General Affairs Council in May. I believe that this Council was yesterday, but I have not been able to find out whether this has actually been discussed. Can the Minister clarify this? I saw this week in this context a message from Diyanet with instructions; so it would be unclean to shake women's hands. It referred to a discussion within the AK party, but the Turkish authorities made it very clear that shaking the hands of women is unclean and undesirable. These are instructions from a Turkish ministry, from the Turkish government to mosques, including in the Netherlands. We know the separation of Church and State here, but with these kinds of instructions there seems to be no separation between mosque and Turkish state. Can we accept that? As far as my group is concerned, this means that we should not only talk about countries such as the Gulf States but also about the direct financing of these funds by the Turkish authorities. Direct financing by foreign authorities of mosques here should therefore be countered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u78	In my view, Mr Heerma was in the process of concluding his speech. He blames the cabinet, including in the media, for being naive and not going through enough. I myself brought an initiative law to the Chamber. I do not think we should be naive when it comes to the derogation for church societies and organisations that may use the legal form for church societies. The only question I have for Mr Heerma is: does he want to take a positive and constructive look at this? I say it in his words: we should not be naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u79	The proposal referred to by Mr Azmani highlights the inconvenience of the VVD in this discussion. This Minister of PvdA House said that criminalising the glorification of terrorist violence will help if you want to cut off evil forces in this society and prevent recruitment. Why couldn't I? Because the VVD didn't want to. The VVD therefore blocks an effective approach. In addition, the VVD still wants to legalize hate sows. From the inconvenience that remains for the VVD, she comes forward with a bill to deal with religious societies. She says that this can be better dealt with by Salafists. Can Mr Azmani tell me which Salafist organization is active as a religious society in the Netherlands? If the VVD really wants to do something, it needs to think again about whether the glorification of terrorist violence should be punishable. She must return to her steps when it comes to legalising hate-sowing. The VVD creates blockades for the cabinet in order to actually do something and then comes up with a proposal that is not aimed at the group for which it is intended according to the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u80	With all due respect to Mr. Heerma, this is just you-baking. I'm just gonna ask you an open question, and then I'm gonna get a you bin back. Let's be clear: I can also get you-baked to the CDA about things it's done in the past. We are indeed not a party that wants a thought police. There's a difference between thinking and doing. That is what I said in my speech. It is always unclear to me what exactly one wants in the context of broadening hate-sowing. Then you'll come to the realm of thinking. I think we have a debate on this in a free society instead of sending the police and arresting people on the basis of their thoughts. We must not be naive and we must also look to the future. Today it is about salafistic influences, about political and jihadist influences. It's about mosque authorities, about mosques who experienced a different form of Islam, but aren't resilient enough now. The influence is increasing and the AIVD is deeply concerned about this. Then we have to think ahead of time, preventively, what that means for the exclusion of legal forms? At the moment when one uses a legal form to improperly overthrow our democracy, do you want to ban such an organisation? That is why I ask Mr Heerma once again, and that is simply an open question, if he wants to look at the legislative proposal positively, constructively. That's the only question I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u81	I think we are having a debate here and I do not feel Mr Azmani's question as a "you-bowl," although he likes to talk about thought police. However, Mr Azmani's point of view is quite wrong. When you're talking about recruiters for the jihad and for ISIS, it's not about people who think anything in their living room. These are people who deliberately use the glorification of terrorist violence as a means of recruiting for terror. That's an active activity. The places where many travellers to ISIS are in Belgium has been researched.You can link this to the activity of recruiters and this is also about glorification in the form of propaganda. It also emerged from the work visit we as MPs made in Germany and England that those recruiters know exactly what the limits are than their actions, not their thinking of the law. We have to cut off those recruiters, and it is a pity that the VVD is stuck in taboos, not to mention legalizing hate-sowing, because then you really give imams hate-sowing jobs. I therefore repeat my simple question about the VVD's proposal, which I believe was born of discomfort. What salafistic organizations in the Netherlands would be affected by this bill, given that the bill focuses on religious societies, and not on salafistic foundations? As far as I know, no Salafist religious societies have been registered in the Netherlands. It is a totally ineffective means, while the resources that are effective are pushed away by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mr Azmani has a short question. The answers are taking longer and longer, so I would ask Mr Heerma to give a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u83	I understand, but for me in this debate this is exactly the difference between the CDA and the VVD. Let it be clear and clear: we pick up recruiters in this country and there are sufficient powers for that. I also find it offensive when Facebook has a reaction from a 16, 17-year-old boy who glorifies the violence in Syria. I'm sorry about that, too. The difference is that we then enter into a dialogue with each other to show that this is reprehensible and undesirable. The VVD is not in favour of sending the police to such a person and making it criminal. It doesn't change an opinion in this society. You only turn opinions into a debate, where opposite opinions are expressed. This crystallizes the freedom we have with each other to form opinions and ultimately to reach an optimal opinion in a free society, and that is different from sending the police on it. That's the difference between the CDA and the VVD, not the approach of recruiters. Let's get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u84	I find this interesting. It is good that the VVD does not use the term "thought police" this time, because it is not about thought, but about active action, the use of glorification of terrorist violence, with the aim of recruiting for the jihad. This is happening. It is the parents of extravagants, who have been left in despair, who themselves state that the government is too lax, gives too much space to those recruiters and that active action must be taken to cut off IS' pass. Where the PvdA is prepared to reflect on this, as the Minister has said, it is a pity that the VVD is blocking this by falling into taboos and then coming up with proposals that do not affect the group at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about our freedoms. We defend freedom of expression, freedom of belief and freedom of religion, including for Muslims. Muslims are now in the middle of two fires. After this morning, in the light of the report from Rotterdam, I should say: between three fires. Firstly, the threat from right-wing extremist angle. We need to protect victims from that, including Muslims. And that is exactly what we are doing: tracking down the threat, prosecuting the perpetrators and punishing them. Secondly, the threat from a Muslim extremist angle. Dozens of mosques have reported that salafistic organizations are trying to take over and infiltrate the mosque authorities, according to the NRC last year. The pulpit was hijacked by their Dutch speaking preachers who sometimes lean against jihadism, also the AIVD confirms. Our congregations have made the ground available for neighborhood mosques, not for Middle East salafists holding the Muslims hostage, assaulting young people with recruiters for the jihad of Daesh and spreading propaganda material for this fascist organization. Many Dutch are afraid, including the Muslims. The worst part is that children are brainwashed in the salafistic schools as a breeding pond for the jihad. Their mothers cling to me in the streets, or beg me; they are intimidated by Salafists. Of course I say to these mothers that they do well to raise their children with standards and values, without profiling them as 'we are different, we are better' but as 'we are tolerant and full of appreciation for our freedoms and in close contact with the school'. Of course, I am giving the imams who come to me asking for advice that they should build a resilient Islamic community that is paralyzing recruitment practices, offering a more attractive alternative to mosque youth and fighting ideas with good ideas about our democratic values against the bad ideas of totalitarian ideology that characterises Daesh. Of course, I say to everyone: let's fight together against who's pulling us apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u86	Let me come back to those mothers and the Koran education, because that is very worrying. At I don't know how many places Koran education is provided, all behind closed doors. So we don't have any eyes on that. That can indeed be very unsafe. Does Mr Marcouch share our view that this should at least be subject to government control so that we can understand whether it is a safe climate and prevent anti-democratic values from being preached there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u87	I come a lot into these schools and I have to say that there is a lot going on in the provision of education at weekends, but there is also a lot of reason for care, especially when it comes to the educational and educational environment. In particular, I mentioned the Salafist schools because they transfer an ideology to children which is actually at odds with what we in our society want to organise in terms of freedoms and the way we want to live together. As far as I am concerned, the initiative initiated by the Minister in Utrecht can be extended much wider, as Mr Sjoerdsma has also asked. I believe that as a government you should keep some distance because of the separation between Church and State, but at the same time you should monitor to ensure that the education given there is not detrimental to them in the interests of the children and in order to protect them. Parents, of course, also have a responsibility for what they teach their children and at what foundation they host their children, but I welcome some supervision. As far as I am concerned, the most important thing is that the educational and teaching environment should be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u88	That was a very long answer, but that is "yes." Let me put my question a little more broadly, also because you may need it. You cannot be satisfied with now, because there is an article in the newspaper, to investigate what that is like in Utrecht. It happens in many more places. It'll go well in a lot of places, but we don't know. My request is therefore slightly broader than a one-off examination. My request is to check on that safety, because it concerns children. This must of course be done with respect for the separation of State and Church.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u89	Yeah, I'm in. This is a subject that has really been on my mind for a long time. When I was chairman of the Slotervaart district, I argued for this and tried to do so. I am in favour of ensuring that we have a view on children who receive education in this kind of school and that we ensure that it is good educationally and didactically. This is in the interests and for the protection of children, but it must be done in a role that fits our government into a democratic rule of law. Of course, I say to everyone: let us fight together against those who want to tear us apart. Of course, I constantly ask the Minister to present this actively and publicly. I'll ask the Minister how he does this. There is something only the government can do: set the standard, to give our debates, the debate, education and education a foundation. This is something the government really needs to do, given its duty to protect our freedoms, including freedom of religion. That is protecting democracy! This is done by enforcing the laws that have been made just for that purpose. That is why, together with the VVD, I have asked the Minister by motion to give the Public Prosecutor a lead, so that the prosecutors focus very precisely on the salafistic organisations that threaten our democracy and collect evidence before the courts, because the judge has the last word in our rule of law. No freedom without security! Thus the State defends our freedoms, including freedom of faith, also for Muslims. That is why I ask the Minister: how is the implementation of this motion going? How will he protect freedom of religion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr. Chairman. While there is a huge discussion going on in the Netherlands about discrimination and unbridled racism, we are talking about Islam here in the House of Representatives. We've known for a long time that Islam is hot. That is clear from the fact that we are holding this debate two weeks before the Ramadan. Hardly a day goes by these days when we don't talk about Islam. The fear of Islam and its precursor to it seem to be taking ever larger forms. In this context, I am only waiting for a message linking even global warming to Islam. In the most poignant form, this phenomenon is... Mr. Chairman. I see Mrs Karabulut standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mrs Karabulut, this is about to be the last interruption. You can do it in two stages. You've said a lot of things. But I'll give you this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u92	Okay. Mr Kuzu knows that we are not bashens, that we are not polarizing, but that we want to make the Netherlands together. This sometimes includes legitimate concerns about developments related to Islam. There is nothing I can do about children being told in the alFirah mosque that our primary schools are destroying children, that they are teaching hatred and hostility. Does Mr Kuzu not think that is a legitimate concern? Doesn't he think we should talk about that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u93	I'm not saying we shouldn't talk about it. I merely point out that there is a risk that there will be people in our society who do not make the distinction that you rightly make here. This is also reflected in the report of the AIVD and the NCTV on the diversity of Salafism. That is why I would ask you to make the nuance very clear during this debate and during all the other debates on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u94	I think Mr Kuzu is the one who is not making the nuance at the moment. You're shaving us all over the place. I'm just calling it the PVV. I'm sure you'd like to talk to him. Maybe you'll talk to others, too. You may, but I do have a very nuanced debate here. I would like you to identify these problems instead of falling into a victim role, because then we will move forward. I have said this to Mr De Graaf, but I am also saying it to you. I am curious to see what you think of what children do in schools like this and in these mosques I certainly do not shave them over one comb, namely hatred and division.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u95	I say again: from now on, you will speak through the President. You've been a Member of Parliament for quite some time now, so that rule must have landed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u96	I would like to thank Mrs Karabulut for the nuance she has put in her story during this interruption. At the same time, without making it personal, I say that I am concerned that she or her party thinks that I want to reconcile all parties in this Chamber. I do, however, have a number of critical comments about the tone of a number of political parties in the debate over the past period. I shall look in particular at the right side of this Chamber and not at the far left side of this Chamber. The CDA as a Christian party now seems to speak more about Islam than about Christianity. The PVV now seems to be able to read more Koran verses than the average Muslim in the Netherlands. The VVD as a liberal party now seems to be more concerned with how people swim and on our holidays than with promoting individual freedom. According to the leader of the VVD, Halbe Zijlstra, our values are under pressure. He links this to immigration from Islamic countries, because Islamic people would all have a different set of standards. What a generalizing nonsense! As far as we are concerned, Mr Zijlstra should take an example from this minister. We do not often agree with him in debates. We disagree more than we agree, but he makes a reasonable analysis of Salafism in his letter. He writes that you can't compare salafists. In recent weeks, we have had a heated debate on freedom of expression. We all agree that this is a very good thing, but how can it be that freedom of expression exists except for one's responsibilities before the law and that so-called "hate preachers" are blacklisted and declared undesirable without any legal conviction? What about the state of law? This is the reverse world, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u97	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u98	Finally. Many religious organizations from all over the world are concerned about the work permit for preachers. Some are concerned because this could be used for censorship. Others are worried about it because it's a red tape. Can the Minister take care of these concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mrs Karabulut, I ask you to be very brief now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u100	I have not heard a single solution to the problem we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u101	The first solution lies in the tone of the debate. I would like to thank Mrs Karabulut once again for adopting a more nuanced attitude. When we talk about salafism, we also have to make a very clear distinction. The vast majority of the Salafists in the Netherlands move peacefully in this society. The problem arises particularly in the case of a small group of people who are indeed inciting hatred and violence. That's the part we need to fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u102	The question was how. What proposals and solutions does Think to have for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u103	I can go into this in great detail, but when it comes to inciting the piece of hatred, it certainly starts with the rule of law. I see a number of proposals in this Chamber, on the basis of which, for example, we are going to ban foreign preachers, through the UWV. I note that in the report of the AIVD on this subject, too, I see that people in this society feel that double standards are being applied when it comes to this issue. I am in favour of sticking to the instruments we currently have at our disposal in our rule of law, to all the legal solutions we now have. We don't have to cross boundaries that make us out of this state of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u104	I also regret that Mr Kuzu, on behalf of Think, does not address the signals on which we are holding the debate, namely the increasing influence of political Salafism and Jihadi Salafism in mosque administrations. Many members of mosque boards are not resilient enough to counter these radical influences, although they actually want to. There is also a question of help when you talk about it with mosque organisations. It seems that the debate that Mr Kuzu is holding on behalf of Think today is only directed at the other political parties, while I think we have a very big issue on which Mr Kuzu on behalf of Think could say something very sensible. It is not appropriate for us to allow groups here who are in fact unbearable in relation to others in this Dutch society, or who do not accept our democratic rule of law and actually propagate isolationism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr Zijlstra has not been able to catch me in the face of the fact that I promote intolerance and somehow approve it. At least we have clarity about that. We really need to fight this. We have to tackle this, but the essence is that the VVD refers to this issue here as a major problem, although I note that there are a number of problems, but they do not have the extent to which Mr Azmani is talking about. That is not the case. I continue to look at the voting behaviour of the VVD over the past period when it comes to these kinds of points. We've talked a lot about the As-Soennah mosque. The Chamber adopted a motion stating that the city of The Hague should no longer cooperate with the As-Soennah mosque. This is a mosque in the heart of the Schilderswijk, which on New Year's Eve has made an important contribution to the not too "disguising" of the Schilderswijk. The VVD here, however, stands in the front row to turn that kind of well-intentioned initiative upside down. Mr Azmani should therefore put his question to himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u106	I'm really sorry about this. I am not trying to have the debate that we normally have with each other when it comes to the difference between Think and the VVD and the gibberish in that regard. I challenge Mr Kuzu, especially in view of what he wants to stand up for on behalf of Think, to respond to the problem that I signal. He must take seriously the radical signals, which only increase when you look at the AIVD reports. Then you must dare address them. We have to do something about that with each other. We must make democracy more resilient. We need to make people more resilient. We need to make people in mosque boards more resilient. I would like to take Mr Kuzu more in the direction of the problem we are discussing. I don't feel anything for that booby-to-boo to the VVD. I'm not waiting for that. We have a major social problem here, with a security problem! People are worried about the future of this country. We see an increasing influence of radicalisation from Islam. We need to discuss this and not talk about it: what does the VVD do or what does the CDA do? Recognize Think this and what will Think do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mr Azmani's long toes almost reach me if we have to do it this way. The fact that Mr Azmani feels addressed and the emotion in his interruption also explains a great deal. We do have to address problems, but the way in which a number of suggestions and motions are made here in the Chamber make sure that what Mr Azmani addresses goes underground. I should like to warn you about that. Do it in a way where the problems are addressed, but do not shoot through in the legal solutions we have for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u108	The challenge we face today is to find a balance. On the one hand, we need to find targeted measures to address the threat of extreme salafism. This ultimately even leads to the travel of young people to terrorist groups such as IS. We have to do something about that; I think we all agree on that. On the other hand, we must keep the balance so that the debate is not conducted in such a way that it leads to further polarisation and the removal of population groups so that we only shoot ourselves in the foot. We need to monitor that balance today. I agree with Mr Kuzu that the balance of some parties on the right is not satisfactory. However, I would also like to know from Mr Kuzu, in fact following Mrs Karabulut, what measures he intends to take to curb that first danger. Quite specifically, what does Mr Kuzu think of all the measures that can be taken in the field of foreign financing? Do we make it transparent and limit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u109	We are very much in favour of transparency. At the same time, I see that we have had very extensive debates in this Chamber over the last two years on financing from abroad. Bodies that have information indicate that they do not have sufficient material to investigate. They indicate that they draw the conclusion from the material they do have that foreign financing is not problematic. I am not running away from having the debate on how to make it even clearer. I'll say, "Yes, we should do that." Sometimes, however, it seems like we're looking for a pin in the haystack. The pin that we can't find is enlarged so much that I think: what does that contribute to the problem that we should solve with each other, without shooting through in that state of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u110	I think that's an interesting handshake. I fully agree with Mr Kuzu that if there is nothing to find, there is nothing to find. Then you shouldn't stand on your head to get someone into the dock. At the same time, there are serious indications that it goes a little further than a dark brown suspicion that there is funding from certain states and that that funding is not specifically intended for the most democratic loving purposes. On this point, Mr Kuzu and his colleague Mr Öztürk have kept a little more distance. Do we find them on our side when we, in general terms, do not target certain groups, go for transparency and control?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u111	I'm fine with that. We certainly stand for transparency. However, I would point out immediately that it should not seem as if we are aiming at one group and as if all funding from abroad is problematic. I can already see Mr Heerma and I already have some idea of what his question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u112	I wonder if Mr Kuzu can indicate whether his predictive abilities were correct. I mentioned in my contribution a communiqué that Diyanet...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u113	Voila!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u114	Your predictive abilities are good. Diyanet states, following a discussion in the AK party, that it is unclean for men to shake hands with women and that this should be avoided as much as possible. This is covered by a Turkish ministry. How does Mr Kuzu view it, in the light of the separation of Church and State, that from Turkish politics, the Turkish government, this kind of press release goes towards mosques in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u115	We stand here with each other debating the influence of ultra-orthodox Muslims on mosques or society. Mr Heerma comes with a question about the AK party, Erdogan, Diyanet et cetera. I find that interesting. People in our society with a Turkish background, Turkish Dutch, are wise, wise and also resilient enough to decide for themselves who they do and who they do not shake hands with. Suppose people consciously choose not to shake hands out of religious beliefs. I think you were the one who was just talking about freedom of religion. Then people should be free not to shake hands with someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u116	That's not exactly an answer to my question. This is about the separation of Church and State. In my opinion, the direct influence of Diyanet in Turkey and the launching of such communiqués are at odds with the separation of Church and State. That's what my question is about. I, like Mr Sjoerdsma, am prepared to hold this debate widely and not just talk about Turkey, which is just an example of mosques or mosques. It is undesirable that foreign governments finance prayer houses here directly and have influence in this way, also through communiqués. I wonder whether Mr Kuzu shares this view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u117	We too support the principle of separation from the Church and the State. Lately, however, I have seen more and more examples showing that the church has no influence on the State. By "church," I mean the broad palette of all kinds of religious organizations: churches, synagogues and so on. On the other hand, I see that a number of political parties, including the CDA, want to influence the Church as a state. For example, it's about shaking women's hands. Release people in there. Whether they do or not, that's fine. As a politician, you should not interfere if you are in favour of the separation of Church and State. Leave that to the religious communities themselves. Leave that choice to the individual.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u118	Now it's gonna be beautiful! I didn't send out a communique to mosques...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u119	Well, do I?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u120	No, but I ask you a question about Diyanet and you turn it around and say that Dutch politicians would do that. The fact is that there is direct funding and influence from the Turkish authorities through these kind of communiqués and that this is contrary to what you are promoting, namely that there should be no influence. You shouldn't turn it around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u121	I'm not turning it around at all. This is exactly what has been tried in an abnormal, absurd manner over the past three weeks. You will do everything in your power, Mr Heerma, to put it in a booth: there is someone with a Turkish background, and I would like to ask a question about a press release from a foreign power. I would point out that in this case Turkish Dutch people, people with an Islamic background, people who are Muslims, are very well able to decide for themselves who they do and who they do not shake hands with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u122	Mr Heerma is given an opportunity to intervene, because he is addressed. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u123	Let it go. This is the fourth time. Mr President, which Member of Parliament did you allow to ask four questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u124	Someone can be addressed. Your tone is right now... try to keep it quiet. Mr Heerma is now asking his final question. Next is Mrs Karabulut's last short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u125	The question is quite simple. Without all the innuendo in your answer: is it at odds with the separation of Church and State that foreign governments directly finance prayer houses here and issue communiqués about the uncleanness and undesirableness of women, for example, shake hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u126	In my opinion, everyone in the Netherlands, Muslims, is able to determine what one does and what one does not do, period. That's my answer. Mr Heerma has to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mr Kuzu is a Dutch parliamentarians. He is responsible for many people here, including those with a Turkish-Dutch background. Mr Kuzu knows that what is dictated from Diyanet also ends up in Dutch prayer houses. This affects people, whether Mr Kuzu likes it or not; people listen to it. He may not and I don't, but there are people who listen to that. Why is he so annoyed now when I want an appreciation from him, just because it's so important? Does he think this is desirable, yes or no? It's not that complicated, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u128	I see a lot of transparency. The sermons given during the Friday prayer are on the website. I think Mrs Karabulut spits through it every Friday afternoon. If she found a single message there calling for intolerance and hatred, or something contrary to the principles of our democratic rule of law, this question would be justified. However, when messages are passed on, I say that people are wise and sensible enough to make their own choices. Mrs Karabulut probably doesn't think the people are capable of doing that, but I do. If they make that choice, I'd like to ask everyone to respect that choice. A discussion about whether or not to give a hand to women is thus 2006! We're in 2016!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u129	I cannot escape the impression that every time Mr Kuzu talks about Ankara's dictatorships and the despot Erdogan, he pushes his mustache. All I ask is whether he thinks this is desirable, yes or no. Mr Kuzu does not even have the courage to answer that question. I think this is particularly important for a party that claims to stand for transparency and connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u130	I find it extraordinary that every time I stand here or Mr Öztürk is standing here, we are pretending to be the representatives of this. I'm throwing that far from me. I am not going to distance myself from something I have not done, whether that question comes from Mrs Karabulut or from the other Members of Parliament. I'm not gonna do that. I don't do that on command. However, I shall give another example, Mr President, because I think you are interested in that. A while ago, this was about the click line. All the political parties were in the front row to make full criticism of this. We have deliberately waited for this. Mrs Karabulut was also in the front row. During the course of the day a message came from the consulate which was publicly shared and which indicated that there was an overzealous official. It was a mistake, sorry. But what do I still see happening? Mrs Karabulut is still in the front row and is still making a point of it, while she knows like no other that if there were an assignment from Ankara, it would apply not only to the consulate in Rotterdam, but to all consulates around the world. Mrs Karabulut should ask herself why she is actually doing this and why she is trying to present this image. She knows very well what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u131	One short question, Mrs Karabulut, and then there will be a response from Mr Kuzu, without you baking again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u132	I would very much like to have a substantive debate with Mr Kuzu on the click line and the issues surrounding it. Unfortunately, however, Mr Kuzu is not at home, and that is precisely the problem. I think we have different views on that. I think Mr Kuzu does not want to see all those people who feel threatened and the lawyers who are actually making lists. That is possible, but I would like to have an open and honest debate with him on this. We're talking about unwanted influence here today. We're talking about religious freedom. We are talking about religious companies and societies that should be able and able to operate freely in the Netherlands. If Mr Kuzu is asked about unwanted influence by a foreign authority and reacts in this way because he finds it difficult, it only shows where he is. This means that this freedom is very selective for him, and that he does indeed measure it with two measures, even if he says he wants to fight it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u133	Mrs Karabulut talks about freedom of religion and unwanted influence, but what Mrs Karabulut thinks undesirable may be desired by another Member of Parliament. The essence of the whole story is that we are talking about freedom of religion, but that we do not seem to respect the individual choice of religious people to give someone a hand or not, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u134	I see that Mr Marcouch is trying to interrupt. I fear that the Minister will never receive his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u135	I'm trying to help Mr Kuzu a little bit. It was just about that click line. I think that not all Members of Parliament had the knowledge that there would be information about that official later, but that is not what this is about. Not to mention whether or not you think you should give hands. Diyanet's communiqué talks about "unclean." So women are actually being put away as unclean. Mr Kuzu must have an opinion on that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u136	These kinds of things that are researched in the course of the day are often mistranslated or drawn from its context. I would like to read the message myself before I answer it. It is quite remarkable that Mr Marcouch is offering help. It's very nice to get help from an unexpected angle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u137	I'm not interested in that communiqué. Mr Kuzu does not have to study this, but he does have a view on how to deal with women. Apart from Diyanet, doesn't he have a view of the idea that you don't hand over women, for example, because they would be unclean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u138	Oh, yeah. Mr Marcouch knows me longer than he does today. He knows how I feel about that, that I shake hands with women, and that I'm certainly not someone who says women are unclean. Once again, I would like to examine the communiqué. We will therefore see that this has been taken out of context or, for example, that this has been mistranslated. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u139	That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u140	Mr. Chairman. We are talking in this debate about the influence of ultra-orthodox Muslims in mosques, but I agree with Mr Azmani that this is not really about this. It is not so much about people who are orthodox, but about people who, from a fundamentalist ideology, restrict others' freedom and incite hatred and intolerance. That's the problem we're talking about today. This problem is growing, because the influence of people who restrict the freedom of others, using such ideology, is growing. Moreover, such Salafists seek out the borders of the rule of law. Let it be clear that in the Netherlands everyone has the freedom to think and believe what they want. International treaties and our Constitution make it clear that it is not up to the government to determine what people feel, find, think or believe. This is one of the achievements of the Dutch democratic rule of law, something to cherish and protect. This freedom is not unlimited. Freedom must never be used to restrict the freedom of others. It is precisely in order to protect everyone's freedom that the government must act against the individuals and organisations that, for example, restrict other people's freedoms under the guise of religious freedom. The government must be neutral against what people believe, but not against the Dutch core values: freedom of expression and the position of the democratic rule of law. These core values are therefore actively promoted and protected in order to protect the open Dutch society. Where the law is broken, it is enforced. But in addition to enforcement, the government will confront, disrupt and interact with the non-punitive, yet problematic behavior, such as spreading intolerance and restricting freedom. The attention to anti-democratic expressions is therefore not limited to the real intolerance of Salafists, but applies to all forms of religious or ideologically motivated behaviour that cannot be reconciled with Dutch values and the democratic rule of law. That is also the thrust of the letter I sent to the Chamber on 25 February on the implementation of the approach to Salafism. Part of that letter was the answer to a large number of outstanding motions about salafism. In this context, the Court has also received the Normative Framework, which is a follow-up to the letter of September last year. I think that this debate also leads to the discussion of the intermediate position after those two letters and after what we are doing about them. First of all, you see a number of developments. Even within the Salafist-oriented communities there is a debate about how to relate to other Muslims, to the wider society and to the government. This leads to different outcomes. In some cases, rapprochement is sought with other organisations. In other cases, the arrival of preachers is no longer mentioned, as Mr De Graaf pointed out. It is difficult to say how this is going to develop, but it seems clear to me that every individual and every organization has its own responsibility to make the right choices at this time, in the light of the problems we see. The right choice is to get closer to the rest of society, to get closer to others, also to get closer to others who may have different views. I hope that people will continue to connect with the environment, rather than what we see happening here and there, namely that people are retreating or going underground. Secondly, we have highlighted the great importance of social counter-noise. Forge an alliance of those who make that noise is important, important in tackling extremism. I see initiatives here and there that deserve our support in this respect. At the same time, I think this sound can and should sound more powerful and massive than it is now. Thirdly, we are also having this discussion today in a highly polarized social environment in which discussions about refugees, radicalisation, the position of Islam in the Netherlands and extremism run right through each other. I feel and hear from the Muslim community that this gives some people the feeling that it is no longer about extremism or salafism, but about the positions of all Muslims in the Netherlands. In this respect, the input of the PVV is not helpful. You cannot say on the one hand that you stand for the Dutch Constitution, the Dutch core values, the Dutch freedoms and therefore also the freedom of religion and, on the other hand, in one effort by being able as a parliamentarians to determine what one's religion is. It is evidently contrary to our Constitution, to which we have all sworn allegiance, or promised to determine here for individuals what they believe, what they think, what they think and how they want to live their lives in the Netherlands. That is what the PVV does and that strengthens the feeling among some that it is not about extremism or the choice of the Dutchman whether or not he wants to be a Muslim. We have a duty to take the right approach, to shape and use the right legal instruments while respecting our constitutional principles. I think it's a joint search. That is also what you can hear in this debate. The balance between repression and prevention must be found. Sometimes it is a state intervention that has to go very far when we have to resort to social counter forces at another time. Precision and care are important, without us frightening back too long because of that search. We should not be naive about the growing problem that many people in the Netherlands experience. Our approach focuses both on the criminal behaviour and on undesirable problematic behavior. Where the law is violated, the government must maintain and give a clear signal. It must be clear that anyone guilty of terrorist activities, inciting hatred and violence, finds criminal law on their way. We already see, in the light of this discussion, that glorification of violence is already punishable if it is related to hate-sowing, sedition and recruitment. In this respect, the judgment in the Context case provides points of departure and we can say that criminal law already has teeth against those who, relying on ideologies of this kind, incite hatred, violence, recruitment or terror. Organisations, foundations or associations may also be dissolved by the courts if they are found to be in breach of public policy. Furthermore, extremist speakers from outside the Union can be denied access. In addition to this kind of rigorous and clear approach through legal means, I believe that confrontation and dialogue are still necessary. The existing three-track approach of interaction and dialogue, addressing and confronting and disrupting and maintaining is further developed by municipalities. We support the municipalities in forming effective interventions, inter alia by exchanging knowledge about what is happening in a municipality and in the communities. We build up local networks and strengthen the information exchange. The "Normative framework of problematic behavior" sent to the Chamber is also designed to help municipalities. A successful approach depends on targeted and intensive cooperation between governments and the involvement of society itself. Those shared concerns that have also appeared today must translate into an approach that is precise, clear and effective. Those with evil intentions must feel that their behavior is not tolerated. The SP asked what we've seen so far. What's happened so far? From this local approach, the Expertise Unit Social Stability with nine municipalities has also formed such a knowledge network. Meetings have been organised to talk about an effective local approach. Thirteen municipalities use individual support from that expertise unit. Thirteen cases have been picked up, including the arrival of radical preachers, weekends organized and struggles between or within different communities. Indeed, yesterday was the General Affairs Council. The results are not yet available to me. I trust that the Foreign Minister will report on how things went there. I hope the Chamber will forgive me. This is not directly my portfolio, but that Council indeed had a meeting yesterday; Mr Sjoerdsma referred to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u141	I have a question about the previous point. I read that this expertise unit is in progress, but what is your explanation for the emergence of this problem and for the fact that it has come to this, for example with alFirah in a neighbourhood like Pillars? Kids are just brainwashed there and set up against others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u142	That is, of course, a different question from what we are doing so far in connection with the letter. Yeah, that's a really different question. AlFirah is one of the organisations that, thanks to its publication in the NRC, has become very clear that there are very problematic messages being spread, not only among adults but also among children. This has led to research into the educational environment and the safety of children. I think that's a good standard, too. I would also like to comment immediately on the suggestion that all forms of religious education should be placed under government control. This encounters a problem of definition. When Mrs Karabulut tells someone what she thinks of a religious text, there is religious instruction. It is difficult to allow this to be subject to government supervision. Mrs Karabulut's aim is to prevent children from entering an unsafe environment and to influence them with values which may also hinder their functioning in society. Mr Sjoerdsma's question was whether I am prepared to apply more broadly what is happening in Utrecht. The answer to that is yes. I think that's important. Then you're talking about protecting children from intolerance and intolerance. I am in favour of that, but if you would now make a law to place any form of private education in what someone thinks or doesn't believe, under government control, you wouldn't find those bad cases, but you would organize a lot of government supervision that isn't necessary for anything. So: serve the purpose, yes, but with precision. That is also what the rule of law requires of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u143	I will return to the Qur'an education later, but I will now deal with alFirah and its origin. AlFirah did not occur in one month or one year, nor did the situation in that neighborhood. Does the Minister share my view that this also has to do with failing integration policies? If so, what concrete new steps does the Minister take with his policy of resolving this and preventing it in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u144	Here it is avenged that this interruption by Mrs Karabulut is coming very early, because I had begun to tell you what we have all done since the letter. That includes this list, including elements on which I will return to the Chamber, including the question of segregation. So I think it would be wise if I gave that overview and then Mrs Karabulut repeated her question, if she still needs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u145	I really want to ask whether the Minister agrees with me that this has also to do with the failing integration policies of the past decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u146	I agree with Mrs Karabulut. It is, of course, extremely undesirable for people to allow them to gain a dominant position in their own community in this case, and that their leadership leads to isolation and aversion of society. So I would say: throw those people out and stand up for your own freedom of religion and don't let others tell you how to live your life in the Netherlands. There are many factors that make it a breeding ground and people are susceptible to it. This has partly to do with the fact that young people are looking for an identity and do not feel at home in the Netherlands. That's a big problem. It has partly to do with the fact that people live separately, often in isolated neighborhoods. Partly, it also has to do with a conscious agenda from foreign funding. So you can't give us one cause for that. I do think this is a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u147	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u148	I thought it would be a good idea to start by giving an overview of the state of play of the commitments, otherwise that point will come back again and again. The Chamber wants to know when she'll hear more about it. These include the Roemer/Zijlstra motion asking for a list of salafist organisations. Its implementation has been invested at the WODC. It will be ready in spring 2017. It is also about the Heerma motion on anti-democratic groups. There will be an investigation plus letter for the summer of 2016. There is also the Van Dam motion on strengthening resilience and citizenship to protect against radicalisation. This will also be the subject of a letter for the coming summer. Furthermore, we are talking about foreign financing. This is also mentioned in the letter of 25 February, and this is also the subject of a letter to the Chamber for the summer, which states where we came to that moment. The outcome of yesterday's RAZ, if there are any, will be taken into account. Of course, that goes much further than just a meeting with European colleagues. In any case, these are a number of commitments arising from the letter. In addition, we are increasing the local approach. I have indicated how many meetings there have been; we are going to expand this in the coming period. Finally, work is continuing on the effective approach to hate preachers. I will deal with this more specifically in a few moments, in response to a number of questions. Mr Marcouch asked about the implementation of his motion on investigations into the criminal behaviour of Salafist organizations. Minister Van der Steur will take charge of that motion. Mr Marchouch asked the cabinet whether the public prosecutor would use the opportunity to ban anti-democratic organisations. The answer to that question is yes. On the basis of his motion, the cabinet has decided to investigate further the way in which this is done in other countries. Moreover, following that motion, the cabinet will return to the Chamber in the manner in which that motion is implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u149	I'd like to give the Minister the following. That foreign funding is a problem. That seems complicated, but something needs to be done about it. What I'm running into is that municipalities make a piece of land available for their locals, for community initiatives, to build a mosque, after which people with big money hijack such an initiative. It's about stopping the big money, making it more transparent, and so on. But what is the Minister going to do to make municipalities and citizens resilient against that kind of big money? That's the other side. I would like the Minister to take that point into account in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u150	In this context, a number of elements are important. First of all, it's about more knowledge; you need to know what kind of meat you have in the tub, what kind of organizations they are, who's behind them and how these networks run. Secondly, greater transparency on the origin of funding should be called for. We have a huge interest in the fact that organisations give much more insight into the origin of funding. Thirdly, with this, we are in the field of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which is why we have to ask ourselves what can actually be done about financing from abroad. Under what circumstances and conditions does it happen and when should you ban it? Although we have legislation on direct terrorist financing, we are also acting on it, these statements are also shared with the Chamber, but here we are talking about something else. This is more about gaining political-religious influence. That is also undesirable, but it listens much more closely when you as a government can or cannot intervene. Mr Koenders will respond to that in that letter that comes before the summer. Mr Marcouch's point will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u151	The Minister just spoke about the implementation of a number of motions on this subject. A motion from our group has also been adopted to ban preachers of violence from the Netherlands at all times. How's the Cabinet handling that? So far we have seen little of that in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u152	I have just listened very interestedly to the debate between Mr Van Klaveren and Mr Sjoerdsma. The definitions moved back and forth in front of me. If I understand correctly, there is a warm welcome from Mr Van Klaveren for hate preachers, but they should not have been there when they call for violence. We are doing everything we can to stop those who want to preach hatred and intolerance. We shall therefore go further than Mr Van Klaveren. No visa shall be issued to them. You don't always know it in advance. If they come to the Netherlands from another country in the European Union, you can't stop them, but you can try to prevent criminal expressions. If there is reason to do so, there are people in the room who can translate and the Public Prosecutor can act. If there is reason to expect a threat to public order, it is also discussed with mayors. That is what I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u153	If a minister is talking about an initiative bill that has yet to be discussed in the Chamber, it is of course nice to know what he is talking about. In our group's own-initiative proposal on this matter, we continue to call for violence, sedition, defamation, defamation, defamation and de facto discrimination to be punishable. You can handle hate preachers just fine with that. That was just said by the cabinet itself. The motion on preachers of violence has been adopted in the Chamber. That is why there is a majority in this Parliament. How is this implemented? After all, since that motion was adopted, all kinds of violent preachers have still entered the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u154	I am trying to be very serious about what Mr Van Klaveren is saying here. I think I quoted him literally; I just can't follow him. It's very strange to want to remove hate from criminal law when you think it should remain a criminal offence. That can't be both true at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u155	The motion speaks very specifically of preachers of violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u156	But we agreed on violence a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u157	However, we see that the cabinet is not doing anything to stop those violent preachers. That's the problem. We do not want any preachers of violence to enter the Netherlands, but that is what is happening. It is said that the said motion is being implemented, but that is not the case. For the rest, the Minister tries to make it a more or less funny story about hate-sowing. As I said, defamation, defamation, sedition and de facto discrimination continue to be punishable according to our own initiative proposal. You can deal with hate preachers with that. We are now concerned with the question of how this cabinet will stop violent preachers coming to the Netherlands to spread their toxic message here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u158	This is certainly not a joke to me, Mr President, as I say to Mr Van Klaveren through you. I think this is a very important and heavy responsibility, which the cabinet also feels. It is the responsibility to protect the Netherlands, including the many Dutch Muslims, from radicalisation. This responsibility was translated into an action programme in the summer of 2014. There are a lot of measures to use criminal law. There are preventive measures and measures to prevent the spread of the message about or call for jihadism or violence. That message is spread by some preachers. That's what we're trying to stop. That message is being spread over the Internet. That's what we're trying to stop. We're trying to stimulate counter-noise. If Mr Van Klaveren asks me what we are doing to counter the offer of a stage to the preachers of hatred, then I answer that I have outlined this. I just reacted to something else. I was not the only one in the Chamber who witnessed a complex and difficult speech for me. Mr Van Klaveren says that we must be much stricter against preachers of violence, while criminal law is there and will be used as soon as someone calls for violence. However, Mr Van Klaveren wants to take hate-sowing out of the Code of Criminal Law. I can only take note of that. The cabinet does not share that belief. We have to wait and see if he can get a political majority for his initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u159	One more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u160	I don't think the question was very difficult. This cabinet says to do everything it can to stop violent preachers. How then can it be that violent preachers still enter the Netherlands, get a stage and then deliver their message? That was the simple question. I still haven't gotten an answer to that. I hear the Minister says the intention is there. I believe that, but why can these people still enter the Netherlands when a motion has been passed on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u161	People who want to go to the Netherlands from another country in the European Union cannot be stopped on the basis of their ideas. You can then put criminal law in place if criminal statements take place. As soon as we know, we can take appropriate measures, also in cooperation with the local triangle. That seems desirable to me. It is good for criminal law to be brought into line with criminal statements. We are also trying to deny visas to those who are looking for a stage in the Netherlands for a message of intolerance and hatred. There are also legal reasons for doing so, such as the protection of public order in the Netherlands. If we are asked how people can get into the European Union and the Netherlands with an intolerable message, my answer is that this is a consequence of the fact that we cannot deny them access to the Netherlands. That does not mean, however, that we cannot respond to them if they make a criminal statement. I have already said a few things about our willingness, where necessary, to investigate religious education in the interests of children in relation to the educational environment, its safety and its organisation. The SP asked whether discrimination and polarisation do not feed on vulnerability to radicalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u162	Mrs Karabulut, you can also get the Minister to answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u163	He has already answered, because my question is about the Koran teaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u164	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u165	Let me ask you a question to get this point sharp. The issue of alFirah came to light through the newspaper. There have been serious incidents in the past, for example, in which children have been abused. Should I see the Minister's research in such a way that all Qur'an education is investigated? And can the result be that, because of the educational environment and the teaching of democratic values, there must be supervision, without, of course, testing the religious content?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u166	The research in Utrecht is a specific research into the way alFirah shapes education. There is also a reason for this: reports, not only in the press, but also from parents who are concerned about what is being given to children there. In my view, you have a title, namely the protection of children, to look at it more specifically. If similar signals emerge elsewhere, I believe that we should also be prepared to carry out such an investigation, together with the relevant municipality. If, for example, there were abuses in Sunday education, I think you should be able to do research with the same title. That seems to me to be a more specific approach than to put everyone under supervision who, for whatever reason, wants to teach about his or her faith. That is not feasible, because it very quickly leads you to far-reaching interference, and that while you are looking for abuses, to places where children are being prepared for their role in Dutch society in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u167	Therefore, contrary to what I understood in the first part, the Minister does not intend to conduct a broader investigation into the Qur'an education. I am talking about Koran education, organized over the weekend, in the mosques and sometimes through associations or foundations; not about individuals teaching religion. So the minister follows incidents, and if there are incidents and there are documents in the newspaper again or otherwise, there will be an investigation. Do I understand the Minister that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u168	This is what I'm talking about. I think it is in the interests of all of us if there is more transparency, more openness, about the more institutionally organised religious education. The more openness of things, the better; the easier it is for us not to worry about forms of religious education. In addition, I think we should be prepared to conduct targeted research if we are concerned about things in the press or for all kinds of other reasons. I do not think that there is any reason to investigate all religious education or all Islamic-inspired religious education; there are now no points of reference to this. I think that the fact that the debate has been very intense has indeed led some Muslims in the Netherlands to feel unparticipated. However, I would like to look forward to suggesting a causal link between that problem of "feeling unat home" and actually going to Syria or going to terrorism. It's very difficult to pin yourself on one thing when you look at the profiles of people who actually travel or join a terrorist organization. You often see a psychiatric history or criminal history. It is often about people who have somehow failed in society and who think they can make up for it by joining a terrorist organisation. So you cannot say one-on-one that a polarized debate leads to such radicalisation. You can see that the feeling of not being part of it, of being measured with double standards, contributes to mental segregation in society. Then you get two worlds in one country and that in itself is very problematic and undesirable. Ultimately, we will have to defend the Netherlands and the Dutch values and freedoms together against those who want to destroy them. In order to achieve this, it must be clear that it is a struggle of all those in this country who want to abide by the laws, who abide by the rule of law and who want to defend these freedoms, against those who do not want to. However, we should not put all Muslims in trouble or corner them or deny their religion, as the PVV does. How do we look at mosque drivers who feel shy and are not resistant to the influence of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u169	Before you proceed, Mr Sjoerdsma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u170	I think what Minister Asscher says here is quite right. He points out the effects that polarization can have and the role the PVV plays in this house. I would ask the Minister, as I did earlier in my term, to appreciate the role of some parties in the debate and its effects on polarisation, for example, on groups of people who are hiding and trying to get out of sight. The AIVD also warns about this in his note. Does the Minister see that the way in which the debate is conducted here by some parties has a negative effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u171	I think I have been quite precise in not suggesting a causal link between, for example, what Mr De Graaf is saying here and the fact that young people are considering radicalising. That would be a completely unjustified accusation in the direction of the PVV. Each party has the right in this Parliament to express its opinion and to contribute to the debate. I think it is precisely with these freedoms that you can be very critical about each other and that you should be able to be critical about religions as well. Islam criticism is certainly not the same as Muslim hatred, but I also note, again today, that the PVV does not make any effort to distinguish between individual Dutch people who themselves choose what faith they adhere to and the view of the PVV about what true Islam is. The PVV's view of true Islam is very similar to the jihadist interpretation. According to the PVV, there is only one form of Islam and it can only lead to misery and violence, while people as individuals decide how to fulfill their faith. This shows above all that the PVV has no respect for the Dutch Constitution, which asks us to leave the Dutch themselves what they think, what they think and how they want to exercise their faith as long as they comply with the law and respect that freedom for others. That great good, that democratic rule of law, we will have to defend together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u172	I wholeheartedly agree that democracy, the rule of law, the Constitution to which we have sworn or promised faithfully, and also the articles contained in that Constitution, such as Article 6, are the most dear to us. However, I would like to comment on this for a moment. The Minister, and I understand that he is doing so, makes a careful distinction in his qualification of what some parties have said here today, but the AIVD, of course, warns very specifically about the tone of the debate. The tone of the debate in The Hague, in this Parliament, is a defining tone and can indeed have the effect that the AIVD warns of, namely that the debate leads on the one hand to greater polarisation and, on the other hand, to the people we want to limit in their actions, going underground. I would like a qualification from the Minister. How seriously does he think this is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u173	I think that underlines above all how important it is that we conduct the debate with each other, without leaving any problem unnamed, without being shy about the fact that it is complicated to talk about one's religion and without being naive about the danger posed by interference by some Salafists, but with precision. As long as we continue to distinguish between those who want to contribute to free democracy and those who want to destroy it, we must also be able, even in a polarized debate, to keep the vast majority of people on our side. We all have a responsibility in this, and that also includes taking a moment to point out that the Dutch Constitution, which provides the framework in which we all benefit from freedoms, should be leading for all parties in this Chamber, otherwise other promises or solemn oaths will probably not be worth as much. It is true that some mosque leaders are concerned about that interference and influence in their community. It is also worrying when it puts pressure on the diversity of views and freedom of opinion in a mosque community or a smaller group, because it is much more difficult to combat criminal law. This is often more difficult to identify and more difficult to prove phenomena, in which people feel less free to express a different opinion. All the more crucial and all the more important it is to support those who dare to make a countersound, who dare to think differently and dare to be different. Wherever possible, we will help to increase the resilience of mosque leaders against radicalisation, but there is also a very great responsibility for people themselves and also for the Islamic community in the Netherlands to throw out people who are also said not to belong in the mosque. The moment you have those concerns, stand up for yourself and your own community. So don't give yourself room for that unwanted influence and don't invite the hate preachers. By definition, the government can do much less than people can do themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u174	The resilience was also a rather central issue in my own contribution. Where the first mosques were built by the first generation, consisting of people with a different background who came in the 1960s, 70s, I can certainly imagine that they find it very difficult to be sufficiently resilient to later generations who are much more mature and who have acquired some knowledge through social media, among others. Apart from all external influences, it is therefore very difficult for mosque authorities to prevent that. We have seen this in a mosque in Amsterdam where it took place, but we also see it elsewhere in the country. I do have the idea that there is some kind of question of help, in the sense of: how do we deal with this and how can we be more resilient to counter these radical influences? My question is therefore whether the Minister is in contact with mosque organisations to address this precisely. The impact is increasing, and if we do not do anything about it, it will only increase further in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u175	I share Mr Azmani's analysis. I do hear that phenomenon. So I share his concerns, too. There are, of course, contacts with the CMO, the Union of Moroccan Mosques and various other organisations. Then it is important to make a distinction. Sometimes you see, I'd almost say, traditional generational conflicts. There is a new generation that is more powerful, who wants to hear Dutch sermons and who doesn't just let himself be told by the first generation. That's a perfectly normal phenomenon. In addition, there is a concern that you have to take very seriously and that concerns the question of what exactly are the influences that come here. My reservations relate to directly as a government playing a role in whom it is in charge in a local mosque organization. As a government, we must stay far from that. What we can do and what I am willing to do is to support those networks to counter radicalisation and to increase resilience. However, we must be careful to interfere too directly with those who are in charge within a particular organisation or a foundation board. So I hear this question of help, but I think it will initially have to be answered by the umbrella organisations themselves. They are also best able to separate the chaff from the wheat there. I am not talking about a situation in which criminal behaviour takes place, because then it is very clear. We are now talking much more about the inconvenience of certain interpretations or intolerance that enters the mosque. This question should then be answered first and foremost by the umbrella organisations. Where we can provide support to increase resilience to radicalisation, we will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u176	I also understand the dilemma the minister is in. As a state, you have to be reluctant about what's happening. At the same time, it also has to do with the security of society, even in the future, when you read the reports of the AIVD and you talk to mosque organisations about what is happening there at the moment. There is increasing influence. It may then begin in the first instance by looking at the experience of Islam and the purity of Islam in a different way, but it can indeed become a source of food for further radical elements that other people are sucked into, which only makes that group bigger. In the end, there is also an interest for the State to prevent that as much as possible. I heard the minister say it's being discussed. However, my question to him is whether anything should be done in the context of a piece of empowerment from other influences to ensure that the mosques are future-proof and will not pose any further threat to society in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u177	I am pleased that Mr Azmani recognizes and recognises the dilemma. If we can establish a link with the threat to security, it will be much easier. Then we have a lot of tools to do something about. Given what we're talking about, we're still a long way from making that link. Now it is much more about a change, a different interpretation and a different view. We are not talking about how people want to exercise their faith. It's somewhere in there, isn't it? I do not now have all kinds of additional instruments at my disposal, but it is all the more important to strengthen the position of the communities themselves and to strengthen the position of those who express those concerns and who make a different sound. Let's not do the opposite. We should not legitimize the radicals, but just those who want to keep them out. But if we go far beyond that, we will soon encounter interference in the freedom of the individual. That's part of this problem, too. You have a part that is very clear, namely criminal law. You have a part that is clearly undesirable. You can disrupt it, make it difficult, fight it and so on. And you have a part where you have to organise social counter-force through dialogue and strengthening a counter-noise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u178	I won't say "the infamous double interview," but since last weekend's famous double interview, we know that this minister is also a teacher for the Prime Minister. The thesis is that not everything depends on laws. It's also about morality, what you're carrying out, and what direction you want to go with society. The Minister rightly said that such hijackers should be fought out by mosque leaders. There's legislation to perpetuate that. What is the role of the government in this? Those people say to me, "It's gonna be fucking hard when the same government is working with the ones we're knocking out." How is the Minister going to ensure that the government clearly positions itself with regard to the hijackers we say: their ideas have a goal that does not fit our way of life and our democratic rule of law? We have to take a stand against that. We can do that with laws, but we can't always do that. We certainly have to take a moral stand against it as well. Let's not work with these clubs often. It's also about confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u179	I understand. I think you should continue the dialogue at all times. You shouldn't just say, "I'm so glad you're here." In a conversation you can also point people to their responsibility. Every individual is responsible for security and freedom in the Netherlands. That is why I do have the conversation with organizations or with people who adhere to a thought that is very far from me, that I might even find creepy. That's exactly what I'm doing from the normative role. That is something other than legitimising these organisations themselves, cooperating with them, providing subsidies for them and placing them on a pedestal. The latter seems to me to be completely wrong. The first seems to me to be a bitter necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u180	It listens very closely. When a mayor of an important city in the Netherlands receives a Qur'an from a representative of a Salafist movement and holds it up, a beautiful picture is taken of it. The mayor doesn't mean that, but that picture is a statement. This dialogue will soon become a legitimation. The question is whether the Minister should not be much stricter for himself, given the serious situation at the moment. After all, we are losing thousands of children to this kind of war zone. I would say: no dialogue, but clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u181	I find that conclusion a strange conclusion from the earlier part of the argument. I agree with what Mr Marcouch said in the previous part of the speech. The essence of it is that the mayor probably doesn't realize that it amounts to legitimization. I very much agree with Mr Marcouch on this point. Much more knowledge and much less naivety about which organisations and which networks go out with what kind of goal in our society is necessary in order to be locally effective. I think that's crucial. Should the conclusion then be that there can be no more contact? I don't think so. I think it is desirable that Mr Marcouch and I agree that the many thousands of young people who may now feel addressed by the interpreters of that idea should return to our side of society and realize that this country, with its freedoms, has a great deal to offer them. It won't work if you stop having contact. I do agree with Mr Marcouch, however, where he has a point that we need to be more specific about and that we need to be very careful that well-meaning local initiatives do not lead to the identification of wrong people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u182	We are now going to limit the number of interruptions to three. The first is for Mr Heerma, because he still owes his first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u183	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. The Minister outlines that, where these are not criminal offences, the government, the State, must be reluctant to interfere with religious experience. Then it's about the separation between Church and State. In my term I quoted a communiqué from Diyanet, the Turkish Ministry of Religious Affairs, that is to say, from the Turkish authorities, which, following a discussion within the AK party, explicitly states that the shaking of hands between men and women is undesirable and unclean and should therefore be avoided. What does the Minister think of the position of the Turkish state, the Turkish government, when it comes to interfering in matters of faith?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u184	This shows very well that Turkey still has a long way to go in terms of separation between the Church and the State, rather a "back way" to embrace this principle again. The problem of such a communiqué is not what one thinks of shaking hands because of a religious belief. I think it's weird, but people get to think that way. The problem is much more that the Dutch may not be comfortable with that. Mr Kuzu says, and I hope he is right, that the Dutch do not care at all about what Diyanet or the AK party gives them, but I fear that he is not right and that people feel that pressure is being put on how they should live their lives here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u185	The communiqué refers very explicitly to a discussion within the AK-Party about not shaking hands, in this case by the new Prime Minister. So it's also very political. However, it is a religious communiqué from a foreign government that still has a long way to go when it comes to the separation of Church and State. In his letter, the Minister describes how complicated it is to limit, in practice, dubious funding from abroad for obtaining influence on mosques. We'll get a letter about it before the summer. However, I am now referring to foreign governments which in this way gain influence and do not abide by the separation between Church and State, as we know it. Are there not more opportunities to act, for example by tightening up the rules, to counteract this influence through funding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u186	There are no possibilities to prevent the spread of communiqués. Then you'll go a long way in restricting freedoms. The problem is much more the continuing, direct and indirect interference in the lives of Dutch people than the fact that within a religious organisation people exchange information about how to confess your religion. The fact that there is talk of how to behave is specific to all religions. The fact that this is now being stamped with a government stamp makes it problematic. I agree with Mr Heerma. The reference to a political debate does not change that much, except that it strengthens the burden of proof that it is really a government matter here rather than a religious one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u187	Let me turn to the previous point. In reply to a question from Mr Marcouch, the Minister says that cooperation with Salafist organizations is undesirable because it legitimizes them, wanted or unwillingly. Then, in response to the motion of the VVD and the SP, which was adopted on that point, the Minister writes that he is not going to implement it. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u188	Because that motion extends beyond what I just said to Mr Marcouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u189	No, the motion states: to ensure that government organisations do not engage in partner, cooperation or grant relations with these organisations. That does not mean that they should not maintain contact; that is quite another matter. It does mean that they don't arrange patrol and security in the neighborhood through those clubs. Yes, it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u190	Because that element of the motion is not so much about what you think is desirable or not, but about the freedom and space you leave the local government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u191	It's either one or the other. This situation has arisen because the government has been unclear for years and even had subsidies of this kind. This has made them large, combined with a failing integration policy. Now we have a lot of discussions about this. A motion on the most basic form, on the point that you're clear as a government, the minister doesn't want to carry out. Then what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u192	That motion will be carried out in so far as no subsidies are granted. It is also being implemented in so far as I have not developed a whole framework for municipalities for nothing to counteract the influence of these kinds of currents. The motion also calls for far-reaching interference in the way in which municipalities themselves do so. That is why we cannot carry out the motion in that respect. That is a very different matter from Mrs Karabulut's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u193	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u194	Mr. Chairman. I'm just trying to speed things up. Mr Azmani also asked what this cooperation is like to increase resilience. I'm giving you a little supplement to what I just said about that. It is precisely in the context of the approach to radicalisation that cooperation is being developed with the CMO, the SMN, the IOT and other organisations. This includes training in the recognition of signs of radicalisation, training imams and directors, discussing the logical follow-up steps and making this subject discussed by mosque visitors and young people. Those are all elements that can help in making it resilient. That is a brief addition to the little debate we have just had. That's already happening. The research in Utrecht has recently started. The expectation is that there will be results soon after the summer. We will then have to discuss, in consultation with local government, in this case of Utrecht, what these results will bring and what conclusions should be drawn in relation to how this is done with children in Utrecht. I come to the question of funding; Mr Heerma, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Marcouch and Mrs Karabulut have all spoken about this. In themselves, they all say that financing from abroad is not illegal or undesirable, but that there is a great responsibility, for example for the religious institutions themselves, to ensure that there is no suspicion caused by lack of transparency. More transparency has already been achieved by the fact that since 1 January this year religious institutions, like the other anbi's, have to publish annual accounts, their expenditure and their income. Next, it is important that, if there is any uncertainty as to the origin of funding, the conversation is held to ask for openness. All of this is still separate from the letter I just promised before the summer on how to develop policies on the foreign powers themselves, such as Saudi Arabia, to prevent unwanted funding. In addition to this element, which we will come back to before the summer, the new rules have already given rise to more references to public access and an important responsibility on the part of the institutions themselves to open up matters. If you say "what annoying that we are always being so suspicious" you can do a lot about it yourself by showing where the money comes from and how you are organized and funded. In addition, measures against terrorist financing have been taken on a regular basis. Last year, the Financial Expertise Centre started to better identify financial networks of individuals and entities that can be associated with terror. Dutch embassies are also discussing this issue with the financial authorities and private donor organisations. We are intensifying these contacts, precisely in order to gain more grip and visibility on terrorist financing. A fourth money laundering directive was adopted at EU level. All measures contained in the Commission's terrorist financing action plan should be implemented by the end of next year. That's more specifically about terrorist financing. Do the municipalities have a view on money from abroad, asked Mr Sjoerdsma. Often not or not enough. That is why it is also important to increase transparency. In this we try to support municipalities, also in the questions they can ask to organisations in the municipalities. Mr. Marcouch outlined a case: with good intentions a piece of land is made available to the local community and then the municipal administration is completely surprised by the structure that occurs there in the shortest time. We try to support municipalities in being much more assertive in asking the right questions and in asking: who are you dealing with, where does the money come from? This is how we try to prevent such situations more often in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u195	The Minister just said that there are gaps in transparency and local authorities' knowledge of the origin of funding flows. I asked the Minister how the cabinet is kept informed by Saudi Arabia, for example, about how money is being made available to religious institutions in the Netherlands. Is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Minister Asscher himself consulted by the Saudi Arabia Embassy on this expenditure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u196	To make sure I answer it correctly, I would like the Foreign Minister to answer that question. I would like to add this to the commitment I just made to send a letter to the Chamber before the summer on foreign interference and foreign financing. I will take this question into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u197	I'm a little worried about that. The Minister says in so many words: I don't think it's in my ministry, but I'm not sure. Given all the discussions on funding and transparency of funding, I would actually expect the Minister to know to what extent countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait or Qatar are seeking to coordinate with the cabinet on the financing of various religious institutions here. I would not really like to wait for the reply by letter sometime before the summer, but I would like an answer from this Minister in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u198	I understand that is what Mr Sjoerdsma wants. However, I am referring to the answer I just gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u199	I really don't get it. This Minister, not the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is sending us a letter on transparency of funding. I am also on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and I can tell you that the Foreign Minister has never sent us a letter on this matter. It is also about the situation here in the Netherlands, about the Saudi Embassy here in The Hague. I want to know from this minister whether his ministry is being consulted by the Saudi Embassy when spending Saudi money in the Netherlands on behalf of religious institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u200	I can answer that question in the second term. For an answer to that other, larger question I refer to my previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u201	All right, in the second term, we'll get the answer. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u202	I have an addition to Mr Van Klaver's question as to what is happening with regard to unwanted preachers. In February last year, visas were withdrawn from persons who wanted to speak at an event in Rijswijk. In the run-up to a conference in the Al-Fourqaan mosque, seven of the fifteen announced speakers were placed on the alert list because they have made a call in the recent past that triggered hatred and/or violence. Five out of seven were in possession of visas issued by other Schengen Member States. Pursuant to Article 24, they have been identified by the IND in SIS-2. On the basis of that alert and at the request of the IND, the five previously issued visas have been withdrawn by Switzerland, Germany and France. On the basis of the alert established for a period of three years, the preacher cannot enter the Schengen area. If he reports to the external border, he will be refused entry and the physical visa will be revoked. New requests will be refused. Mr Kuzu asked how the rule of law is the approach of extremist speakers. This approach is, of course, guaranteed by the rule of law. The risk to public order and/or national security is considered. Non-visa speakers are judged on their expressions and behaviour, all within the limits of the law and the Dutch rule of law. Mr Kuzu also asked about the employment permit for people who want to work in the Netherlands. A letter has already been sent to various Islamic organisations in 2009. This letter was intended to point out the existing obligations based on the Foreign Labour Act, which apply to an imam coming to the Netherlands to work here. My letter of April last year serves as a reminder and therefore does not contain any new policy. However, over the past period, it has been shown that not everyone was sufficiently clear that an employment permit is needed. Moreover, there are also many organisations that always get and apply for the employment permit when people from outside the European Union come to work in the Netherlands. The letter was given in time to take that into account. Employment permits can also be granted in good time if the application is made in the right way. There is therefore no new policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u203	I read the letter carefully. I do wonder whether this applies to everyone, and not just to preachers. Let me give you an example: someone from the United States is coming to speak for half an hour at a conference, for example on health care. Is there therefore a need for an employment permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u204	No, because on the basis of the law in the Act implementing the Foreign Labour Act, an exception was introduced for scientific exchange. This means that no employment permit is required for such contributions. For others who come to work it is necessary, regardless of their religious beliefs. Scientific congress visitors are therefore excluded in the Decree Implementing Foreign Labour Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u205	That is interesting, because where does the dividing line between science and half an hour come to talk, inform, entertain and work? Is it necessary to make a clearer distinction in this respect? I can also imagine a preacher coming here to tell a story about some subject for half an hour. Do we have to look at that directly as if it were under the heading of "work"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u206	When an employer is in doubt about whether or not someone is coming to work, it is advisable to check with the UWV. It is then always about the interpretation of the Decree Implementing Work Foreigners Act. Someone who comes to pick strawberries is not here to do scientific exchange. Someone who comes to preach in the framework of Ramadan, is generally also at work. If you come in an intermediate category, please contact the UWV. That was also the thrust of my letter: be aware of the rules that have been in force since 2009! By the way, many organisations apply them neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u207	I would like to go into this more specifically. Soon it will be Ramadan. Several benefit evenings are organized where several speakers come. Is it speaking on such a benefit night's work? Is that labor?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u208	In our rule of law, we have the decision on when something is work and when not, not to the minister, but to the implementing authorities and, if necessary, to the courts. The framework for this is given in the Foreign Labour Act and in the Act Implementing Foreign Labour Act. If you want to appeal to the exception for scientific exchange, you will have to demonstrate that there is a scientific conference as Mr Kuzu has just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u209	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u210	Mrs Karabulut asked about the implementation of her motion on combating segregation. I had just not mentioned it in my review, because that overview was more about specific concerns about salafism. I have promised the Chamber to send a letter before the summer stating what the Cabinet intends to do to counter unwanted segregation. That letter's coming for the summer. We can then have the debate on whether or not these are the right measures and whether or not they are sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u211	The Minister didn't answer two of my questions. I heard one comment at the beginning and then the Minister's attempt to score another headline, but I did not hear the Minister answer my questions. I will ask my first question in a different way. If a set of values, ideas and laws is not right and if someone in there is radicalizing, then that's a problem. Does the Minister find this set of values, ideas and laws a problem? After all, someone in there is radicalizing. Secondly, I asked about the Muslim Brotherhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u212	That's right, but let me start with the first question. At a time when people are going to deny others freedom, that they are going to apply violence and that they do not respect the rules of our rule of law and our constitution, that is indeed a problem. Sure. To answer Mr De Graaf's second question immediately: that applies to everyone. Any organisation whose aim is to undermine the rule of law, restrict freedom, undermine democracy or restrict our constitution is guilty of various offences and is therefore problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u213	I thought the answer to my question about the Muslim Brotherhood was right away, so I thought I'd wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u214	When organisations do, criminal law is there to act. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u215	Then that was an answer to my question about the Muslim Brotherhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u216	Perhaps Mr De Graaf wishes to repeat his question, because I can see from his face that he is not satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u217	It is not about satisfaction, but it is about answering those questions. I asked two questions in one because they had not been answered in the first period. I'm getting a reasonable answer. Anyone who sits here and watches can do something with that. We can also draw conclusions from that. That's fine, but the second part of the question was: what does the Minister of the Muslim Brotherhood think? Is he willing to investigate this organisation and its minions, networks, interests and influence in the Netherlands? I haven't mentioned it yet, but in Russia, for example, that organisation is forbidden. That's not for nothing, because it's a terrorist organization. Is the Minister prepared to launch a major investigation into this in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u218	The responsibility for the fight against terrorist organisations and for the criminal investigation is, of course, with the Public Prosecutor and the Minister of Security and Justice. Maybe that's why I didn't just answer that question. I acknowledge that this question has been asked. I apologize for not answering him in the first term. Action should be taken as soon as there is cause for this or as soon as there is suspicion of terrorist organisations, of facilitating or organising terrorism or of recruiting for terrorism. That is what our action plan is very clear about. That must be done by the Public Prosecutor or by our security services when it comes to the other spectrum. However, that is not something that I am now instructed to do; we have organised it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u219	I shall be tabling a motion on this in the second term, because of course it goes to the whole cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u220	You can go into that in the second period, because the question had indeed not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u221	We talked today about salafism, extremism and the influence on mosques. How many reports of extremism and salafism were made last year from mosques to the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u222	I can't tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u223	Is that even known to the cabinet? If not, can we receive a letter on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u224	I don't know. It seems very complicated to report Salafism to the police, because you have to report criminal offences to the police. Extremism or concerns about or suspicions of terror may be reported, but I do not have an overview of that. I don't know how many times that's happened. Often the investigation of terror begins on the basis of a combination of intelligence images and existing concerns. At some point, the D.A. is going to investigate or prosecute. It is not an ordinary criminal offence as is the case with other criminal offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u225	I know that reports, or at least reports, are being made to the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u226	Sure, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u227	This is also happening in the areas of Salafism and extremism. The question is then whether we can receive an overview from the Cabinet of the number of reports of extremism in case the Minister thinks that salafism cannot be defined by the police..... has been done to the police from mosques in the Netherlands last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u228	I do not know whether such an overview can be provided; I have to check with the Minister of Security and Justice. Perhaps it would be wise for me to undertake to pass on Mr van Klaveren's request to his colleague, Mr van Klaveren, so that he can respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u229	Thank you. We have come to the second term with this. Speaking time is one minute and a half per group. Don't make too many motions, because you'll stumble over your words. Nevertheless, that is up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u230	Mr. Chairman. Is the situation that has arisen around the alFirah mosque in Pillars the result of failing integration policies? In my view, that is the case. However, the Minister did not reply. He said that people themselves have to ward off people who sow hate. That is absolutely true, but how could this situation have arisen? How is it that there are these segregated neighborhoods with great poverty and unemployment, where people feel abandoned in part and end up in the hands of such recruiters? The Minister didn't answer that question. I would like to hear that answer in second term. I come to the concerns of the mosque drivers. Of course we have to organize resilience, but I wonder why the motion stating that we no longer cooperate with Salafist organizations, which is a motion supported by the majority of the House of Representatives, is not clearly implemented. We used to work together, but we just don't do that anymore. I'd like to get a response to that. This is linked to the motion by Roemer and Zijlstra on the list of Salafist organizations. 2017. I think it's very late. Can the Minister promise that it will not be a scientific list but that it will be part of the instruments of municipalities so that they can work with it? The financing from the Gulf States is undesirable. I don't understand why the cabinet isn't actually doing this. Saudi Arabia is an important ally. I'd say do something about that. On the subject of Diyanet and the Turkish authorities, I will table a motion together with Mr Heerma. He'll do that in his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u231	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to hear that the Minister is indeed aware that it is a problem when a system of values, standards, culture and laws is not right in itself and you radicalise in it. The part of Islam that you can call religion is also full of things that are not part of our Constitution and go against it. You can say that the Minister thinks Islam is a problem. It is very good that this step has been taken. As I have just announced in the final offensive of the first term, I shall table one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the aim of the Muslim Brotherhood worldwide is to replace secular democratic governments with an Islamic caliphate under the sharia;]] [[whereas the Muslim Brotherhood is openly active in some countries, but it is also infiltrated in political parties, organisations and mosques, as well as in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the Muslim Brotherhood supports both the nonviolent and the violent jihad;]] [[noting that such an organisation threatens the democracy, the rule of law, culture and security of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to instruct the AIVD to conduct a thorough investigation into the supporters, the network, the interests and influence of the Muslim Brotherhood in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u232	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers. As far as this subject is concerned, I myself, as a representative of the people, sense some dissatisfaction. At the moment, what is really happening is not entirely transparent. We will, of course, get that from those reports from the AIVD and our security services, but we have a motion from Mr Roemer and the Zijlstra to get a better overview of what salafistic organizations we have. I share Mrs Karabulut's remark that 2017 is still a long way away, while I think we need some sort of zero measurement to know what we are talking about. Then you can talk about educational institutions, for example. What does this promoted intolerance do to children? What does that do with the educational climate? On the other hand, you can identify what is happening and whether the measures that are being taken are actually effective for the resilience of mosque authorities. It is good to have a conversation about this, to have a dialogue, to have courses and so on, but you want to prevent that oil stain, which may not yet be an oil stain, but it could be, from spreading over this country among people with Islam as religion in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u233	You've been through your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u234	I understand. I'll give you a summary. This is a subject that we are discussing today, but which, as far as I am concerned, we need to discuss more often in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u235	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Today we are talking about the balance sheet of tackling the abuses on the one hand and preventing us from falling into polarisation on the other. In addition to thanks to the Minister for the commitment to look at this educational environment, I myself have also tabled a motion on the transparency of funding. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas some religious institutions in the Netherlands receive financial support from dubious regimes, persons or institutions from abroad;]] [[having regard to the importance of transparency and openness regarding the origin of funding of religious institutions in view of the undesirable impact;]] [[calls on the government, religious institutions, to be transparent and public about the origin of their funding and to inform them annually;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u236	I have another motion for a resolution on the failure of this debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas freedom of religion is one of the core values of Dutch democracy, enshrined in Article 6 of the Dutch Constitution;]] [[Considering that freedom of religion within the framework of the Constitution must be the same for any religious movement;]] [[calls on the Government to actively ensure and propose Article 6 of the Dutch Constitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Marcouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u237	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given. Furthermore, I shall be brief. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the AIVD has indicated that the influence of salafism on Dutch mosques is growing;]] [[noting that there is a relationship with jihadism;]] [[Whereas salafistic preachers of violence are invited by several Dutch mosques;]] [[Whereas these preachers of violence represent a threat to public order and a message to prevent integration into our society;]] [[calls on the government to close mosques inviting preachers of violence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u238	Mr. Chairman. During the Prime Minister's first term, I thought involuntarily of the labour market. Over the last two years, we have had many discussions about problems in the labour market, for example with regard to pay-as-you-go and pay-as-you-go. Then the Minister replied: wait for the report of the ibozzp. As a result, expectations were very high. In this debate, the Minister has outlined a list of letters that we will receive before the summer on problematic funding from abroad, tackling anti-democratic parties and promoting core values in line with the Van Dam motion. My expectations are getting higher and higher. I hope that, as with the ibozzp, we will not get a disappointing result. I therefore call on the Minister to come forward with strong letters in this area before the summer. As has just been announced by Mr Karabulut, I shall be submitting the next motion on behalf of her on the first time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there should be prayer homes of and for local religious communities and concerns about influence from abroad;]] [[Whereas the direct financing and influence of prayer houses and religious communities from foreign governments are at odds with the separation of Church and State;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Dutch houses of prayer are no longer financed by foreign governments, and to make proposals to this effect to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u239	The Minister indicated in his first term that the tone of the communiqué seemed to be inspired by Turkish political motives and therefore by the relationship with the government, but that it was difficult to do something about it. It is precisely the financing from Diyanet that makes this kind of communiqués even more complicated, because who pays determines. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u240	Mr. Chairman. We are conducting this debate in a context in which our country has the second highest level of threat, hundreds of young people from our own neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods leave for war zones and jihadist places and the tensions in society increase. In this sense, the urgency is high to actually proceed with action in implementation. I started by saying that this is about freedoms. That is why I am tabling a motion on freedom of religion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the freedom of expression of faith is under pressure;]] [[Whereas recent research has found that there are more than twice as many cases of Muslim discrimination in Rotterdam and its surroundings than have been reported to the relevant authorities;]] [[Whereas under-reporting of Muslim discrimination is also a well-known phenomenon elsewhere;]] [[believes that the protection of freedom of religion should be supported by the public authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to protect, defend and promote freedom of religion for the forthcoming budgetary discussions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marcouch and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u241	Mr. Chairman. Today we have had a debate on freedom of religion, freedom of religion and the way we deal with extreme excrement in all forms, whether it be Islam or right-wing extremism. As we know, we are consistent in this and we are fighting all forms of extremism. Among a group of people there is a broad picture that the Dutch government measures with two sizes on Islam. This is also evident from the report of the AIVD. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the publication of the AIVD and the NCTV states that there is an already wide-ranging picture that the Dutch government has double standards with regard to Islam;]] [[Whereas this may lead to the withdrawal of groups from society and thereby to a deterioration of our social cohesion;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with concrete proposals to remove this living image,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u242	Mr. Chairman. It may be that sometimes I have to go where I left off. I'm gonna go into the SP's questions first. I thought I had answered the question from the first term. Yes, the emergence of the situation around alFirah has to do with factors such as poor integration. It certainly has something to do with that, and therefore also with a policy that is failing in some respects. The separate worlds in a neighborhood make it possible for people to be isolated or vulnerable to those who consciously want to isolate them, because that also occurs. I am thinking of influence from abroad, recruitment power and an agenda that is at odds with Dutch society. Let there be no misunderstanding about its seriousness and about what is behind it all. Then I will deal with the above-mentioned cooperation with Salafist organizations. There is no cooperation with the government. There is no subsidy either. Locally, there will be a trade-off. If you want to ban it, you're actually asking for far more far-reaching interference in local authority. However, I agree with Mrs Karabulut: it is crucial that you know who you are dealing with and it is important to protect the local population from intolerable thought. It was also in the small debate I had with Mr Marcouch. In this respect, we still have a world to win, and I am working hard with the municipalities to do so. Mr Sjoerdsma asked if my ministry by Saudi Arabia would be kept informed of religious investments. The answer is no. For the rest, I refer to the letter that will be sent to the Chamber before the summer. I'll go into the motions. In the motion in part No. Mr De Graaf asked the government to instruct the AIVD to investigate. Apart from the fact that it is usually not wise to establish in public a specific assignment to the AIVD, I say that the AIVD itself is able to determine within the framework of the rule of law which it considers necessary. So I cannot and must not comment on the organisations that are or are not investigating the AIVD. For that reason alone, I would advise against the motion, which requires that it be decided in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u243	If I then remove the AIVD, and I amend the motion to the extent that at least there is a need for investigation and that the government itself can decide how that is to be done and that the mandate is not to be made public, could the motion perhaps be appreciated by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u244	So the motion says that the Chamber should ask the government to investigate, and then my answer would be that I would discourage the motion, because there must be a concrete reason for that investigation. Perhaps Mr De Graaf would like to continue the motion so that we can return to one point, for example, when we speak before the summer in response to the letters I have announced. If he sees that reason in it, that motion could still be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u245	If the Minister is fully aware of the considerations contained in the motion for a resolution, at least we can see enough reason to keep the Muslim Brotherhood under review, and I am prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u246	Mr de Graaf may have noticed over the last few years, I would like to point out that I take the considerations of each party's motions extremely seriously. That's why I often advise against motions, but that doesn't mean I don't take notice of them. I am trying to get into the debate very seriously about what is being said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u247	That's a no-brainer. I'm sorry, that's English. We don't have to think about that. Then we'll understand each other, then I'll hold the motion, and I'll assume so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u248	At the request of Mr De Graaf, I propose his motion (29614, No. 41). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u249	This is the moment I feared I'd have to look in my papers. The SP asked another question about the Roemer/Zijlstra motion, and the VVD also supported that point. The answer is: yes, I understand that there is a need to speed up. The researchers have indicated that they need time to do this. I will say that it would be very much appreciated if we could speed it up, but I cannot guarantee that. The second point is that it should not be a scientific list. The Ministry of Security and Justice will ensure that the right focus remains in the investigation, so that it is indeed useful to have those results after that. So I'm gonna give you both the groceries. The Ministry of Security and Justice, as the holder of the investigation, is in contact with the contractors. So I will pass on both elements, but I cannot promise that it will come sooner. This is the information I got from V and J, but I'll pass on the wish. Mr Sjoerdsma asked for religious institutions to be required to be transparent and public about the origin of their funding and to inform them annually. So you are talking about the introduction of a rather far-reaching legal obligation, which may be justified in the light of the problems we are discussing here. I would also suggest to Mr Sjoerdsma that this motion be retained. At the moment when we have informed the Chamber of what we want to do with foreign funding, the Chamber may conclude that it is sufficient or not and whether there is a need for such a legal basis. I think Mr Sjoerdsma agrees with me that this requires a legal basis, given that it at least affects the constitutional freedoms of religious institutions. So this is not a matter of a few weeks, so I hope he will be patient for a few weeks until we have informed the Chamber, otherwise I have to discourage the motion at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u250	I'll consider holding the motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u251	You have that right. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u252	Then I come to the motion on the active safeguarding of Article 6 of the Constitution. I promised I'd do that. I see that as my job, so I will. I'll leave the motion to the Court's judgment. Its content is, of course, quite self-evident to a large extent, but I have heard very well from both applicants why they consider it necessary, and I can understand that, as my replies in the first period have shown. Then I come to Mr Van Klaver's request to close mosques that invite preachers of violence. The closure of mosques will require more than the fact that they have invited people who may have made statements in the past that are at odds with democratic society; they themselves must have violated the law as an organisation. If that's the case, then so will we. When mosques break our laws, it has consequences, and public order can lead to closure. However, the invitation itself is not a sufficient basis for closure. So I'm gonna dissuade that motion. Then I come to the motion of the CDA and the SP in part No. 45, in which the government is asked to ensure that Dutch prayer houses are no longer financed by foreign governments. This means that the government is being asked to ban Diyanet. That is the consequence of this motion. This is an organisation financed by the Turkish government. That seems to me to be too far-reaching a statement from the Chamber. I understand the concerns and I share those concerns, but it's about influencing individual Dutch people about how they want to live their lives, the choices they want to make and how they want to experience their religion. If I take the motion literally, we must ensure that Diyanet ceases to exist or at least is no longer funded. That seems to me to go too far, and that's why I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u253	If the Minister shares this with us, he will do so, because he has repeatedly shown that funding from abroad is undesirable and that religious communities should be local and people's, then he could also consider this motion as: it is time to change it so that the dictatorships and funding from Ankara stop. This would enable the Minister to take action on this motion without firing it directly. I am now also looking in the direction of Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u254	If the motion asks to ensure that there is no funding, that there is no further clause and that it is not specified, then this motion goes far beyond discussing Ankara's unwanted influence. I think Mrs Karabulut does not take herself seriously when she says: I submit this motion which says "perfectly forbid it, forbid it," but above all read it differently. Then she'll have to file another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u255	I'm not telling the Minister to read the motion differently. I said if the Minister agrees with us. So far, I thought he shared with us that funding would have an undesirable effect as well as a political influence. In my view, then, he could receive this motion with a little more enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u256	If the CDA and the SP here say "perfectly that there should no longer be funding from abroad," then...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u257	The government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u258	Yeah, the government. Then it means that the motion means forbidding Dyanet. There's no other way. That seems to me to be too far-reaching a motion. Yes, I share the concerns of the Chamber. We've talked about this before. Also on the basis of the example that Mr Heerma has presented here today, I have been crystal clear that it is undesirable to restrict the Dutch in their freedom and to interfere with it. The Dutch must be able to decide for themselves how they live their lives, regardless of their origin, their background, the background of their parents or their religious beliefs. Such an intervention, as stated in the motion, is going too far for me at the moment. That's why I'm deceiving that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u259	I still have a clarifying question. The Minister initially said that this motion prohibits Diyanet or at least the financing of Diyanet. Can the Minister explain the distinction between these two? Why would banning the financing of Diyanet be inseparable and automatically leading to a ban on Diyanet? Can he explain legally what the difference is between these two and why one leads inextricably to another?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u260	Because we know that Dyanet is an organization that deals with the organisation of offering religion to groups in the Netherlands and that funding of that organisation comes wholly or partly from Turkey and is therefore also related to the government there. The purpose of this motion, as Mrs Karabulut has just confirmed, is to stop it and make it impossible. That will be understood as a ban on that organisation in this form. Then an organization can always say: we start a new organization. Or they do it differently. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u261	The motion focuses on funding. The Minister has made it clear that he thinks this is undesirable, that the political link with Ankara is very direct, but that it is difficult to stop the communiqué. The financing ensures that the communiqué has a binding effect, for who pays determines. We want this motion to stop funding. If we were to table a motion calling for a ban on Diyanet, it would say: Diyanet is banned. It is about the financing and the influence that is bought with it. It will be a shortcoming for me, but I don't understand why stopping funding would automatically entail a ban on Diyanet. I do not quite follow that reasoning. I believe that direct financing from the Turkish government is problematic. That's what this motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u262	Then that point was not helpful in my advice to the Chamber. The point is that it is a very far-reaching motion. Mr Heerma will acknowledge that. With that, you draw a line at once through the funding of an organisation. It wasn't illegal until now, but you're making it illegal. If you make sure it doesn't happen again, then it's illegal and then it's illegal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u263	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u264	Okay. I come to the Marcouch/Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 46. This motion continues on the Sjoerdsma/Marcouch motion in part No. 43. I shall also leave this motion to the judgement of the Chamber. I regard what is being requested as the ordinary work. See what we've done against Muslim hatred. See what we've done against anti-Semitism. See the efforts I have made to bring people from different groups together in the Knight's Room, for example, and to remove tensions between religious groups, so that everyone in this country can experience freedom of religion. I consider this motion to support policy. The same applies to the Kuzu motion in part No. 47. In my response to the SCP report Divorced worlds? I have indicated that I see it as a task to try to help everyone in this country feel at home here, feel more Dutch and thus also help to defend Dutch freedoms and the rule of law against those who threaten those freedoms. This motion, too, is left to the discretion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-25-tweedekamer-3.u265	I would like to thank colleagues and the Minister. The votes will normally be held next week.
