ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an amendment to the Procurement Act which entered into force in 2012. The reason for this is the implementation of two technical directives. When I think of invitations to tender, I think of two important points. Firstly, the government spends a lot of taxpayers' money on socially relevant projects. How can we prevent these projects from failing, among other things, because they can already go wrong in the tendering process? The inhabitants of the Netherlands want the right people with the right knowledge to work in the right place for them. We know that too many public projects are still failing, especially in the field of ICT. This leads to high failure costs, and for that our residents are presented with the bill. The second point on which I would like to draw attention, on behalf of the CDA Group, when dealing with this law is how small and medium-sized enterprises, after all, the job engine of our society, can have sufficient access to all these public contracts. The question is to what extent the majority of contracts simply go to large parties on the market because of economies of scale and their impact on prices. The Minister writes that the position of small and medium-sized enterprises has hardly improved since the law was introduced. Before I go into a number of points of the law, I would like to point out that another law is closely related to the Procurement Act, namely the Market and Government Act, which we will be discussing in the Chamber this spring. The government sometimes tends to think that it can do better itself, better than the market, for example by taking care of catering itself or doing cleaning work. The government calls this contracting out. In my group's view, this can be reduced. I refer to the shameful example of the scanstrats of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Tax Administration. Fortunately, the Minister has now promised to get better. It is to be hoped that our government is a real learning organisation and that these kinds of actions will soon become a thing of the past. I shall now turn to the increase in European procurement thresholds, the cluster ban, the division bid and the innovation partnership. The CDA has been calling for an increase in European procurement thresholds for years. I tabled a motion in April 2014 asking the government in Europe to call for the thresholds to be raised to EUR 1 million. In this way, local authorities will be given more room to put local public procurement into the market. Unfortunately, at the time, there was no majority in favour of this motion from the CDA. Then, of course, you hope that parties will come to the same understanding later. I am pleased that the note on the report shows that the VVD Group has now come to this understanding. I'm happy about that. Minister Kamp also wants to make a commitment to this. He will do so at the next round of negotiations of a government procurement agreement. If I read it correctly, it's not until 2019. That's a long way away. Is this true? My group is now calling on the Minister to start the lobby, especially since our European colleagues still have to be convinced in the first instance. Is the Minister prepared to raise this issue at the Competitiveness Council this year? Then there is the position of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u3	I will come back to the previous subject. You just used a very complicated English term. We have a public gallery and we try to conduct the debate as much as possible in such a way that everyone can understand it. Can you explain what this term means?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u4	Certainly, this is an international round of negotiations in which the Minister participates on behalf of the Netherlands. Such a round of negotiations is called the government procurement agreement. The 2012 Procurement Act explicitly called for attention to be paid to the position of SMEs. This is reflected in a provision designed to avoid unnecessary aggregation of contracts and in provisions requiring the proper allocation of large contracts, so that SMEs are actually eligible for these contracts. I would also like to mention the application of the proportionality guide, which has been specifically designed as a guideline for this purpose. The CDA is therefore concerned that the evaluation shows that the award to SMEs has remained virtually the same, whereas the aim was to improve the position of SMEs. Moreover, according to the Minister, this is not the law itself, but the application of the procurement rules. The CDA considers it important to increase the award to SMEs. Our question to the Minister is how exactly he is going to do that. We hear from various sectors in the field that roughly 90% of public procurement is still received by the larger parties. How's that? Is that a picture? Can the Minister provide us with figures? What is the quality of the performance of the assignments? Furthermore, the evaluation of the Procurement Act shows that two thirds of economic operators found the requirements in procurement procedures to be sometimes or regularly not proportionate in recent years. This was also a reason for SMEs not to subscribe to contracts at all. The CDA therefore wonders whether the government considers that the requirements in the procurement procedures have often been disproportionate for SMEs in recent years. We would also like to receive figures on this. Does the Minister have these available? In the field there are sounds about setting up a standard tender fee or tender fee. The CDA is more committed to reducing procurement costs for SMEs than to redistributing those costs. In the Minister's view, where are the opportunities to further reduce the requirements of the procurement procedures for SMEs? Are these, for example, in the better application of the EMFI criterion? "EMVI' stands for "economically most advantageous tender'. The Minister says that as a result of the increase in the percentage of tenders using this criterion, the cost of bidding increased on average by 10%. Can the Minister outline his expectations for the coming years? In any event, the CDA would consider it reasonable that parties who have made a serious contribution to a tender which is subsequently withdrawn by the contracting authority itself as a result of errors by the contracting authority should receive some form of compensation. To what extent do fees already exist in the current law and in the Guide proportionality for such cases? Is the Minister prepared to introduce a compensation scheme for this purpose, precisely in order to prevent and reduce errors on the part of the public authorities? The evaluation also shows that contracting authorities are not, or are hardly, receptive to suggestions for the adaptation of contract conditions. There is talk of a lack of reciprocity. How would the Minister think this could be better picked up? During the hearing on tenders held by the Lower House, it emerged that there is a great deal of attention to the price in the case of tenders. Maybe the price counts more than it's supposed to. The result is that there can be too little attention to quality. It has been pointed out by the Knowledge Circle of Procurement that the points that can be given in procurement for quality are not always 100%, whereas the price criterion is always 100%. The CDA believes that the Minister should make this a starting point for his policy in order to give full scope to quality. Is the Minister prepared to do so? We also understood from Professor Telgen of the University of Twente that there are more of these kinds of technical improvements possible. Is the Minister prepared to investigate this, to submit these improvements to the House of Representatives and to include them in the Guide proportionality if he so wishes? This type of measure may not have to cost much, but it may help to improve the position of SMEs. That's the CDA's assessment. Furthermore, the CDA wonders to what extent the laundry list of many strict conditions and specific labels required by contracting authorities works at the disadvantage of SMEs. It is generally more difficult for SMEs to meet this than for a large party, isn't it? I would like to hear an explanation from the Minister. Then I'll go into the cluster ban and the split bid. Both measures should allow access to procurement for SMEs. The Minister stated in his reply that the evaluation of the Procurement Act revealed that no significant impact had actually been assumed from the cluster ban on contracts. The proportionality guide states precisely that clusters are generally permitted, but only in logically coherent and inextricably linked parts of assignments. The CDA wonders whether proportionality should not simply be included in the Guide that clusters are in principle prohibited. We saw the example of the UWV, which clusters eight different services in a tender. Eight! Those are services that don't logically belong together. Examples include cleaning, greening and security. Of course, SMEs are never dealt with in this way. SMEs also do not want to end up in the position of subcontractors, because then there is really no margin left. What's the Minister gonna do about this? How does the Minister intend to improve this further? I come to the subject of innovation. The CDA considers it important that this legislative proposal should give more room for innovative purchasing. One of the possibilities that can be exploited is the Innovation Partnership. This will give contracting authorities the opportunity to seek new solutions together with market participants. The Minister states that tenderers should define those innovative solutions as concretely as possible. How is it ensured that the contracting authority deals with this very confidentially in situations where the contracting authority does not deal with the specific tenderer of the innovative idea? The CDA considers room for innovation to be important and considers that it has not been sufficiently developed so far. In many calls for tenders, a company must give a very detailed indication of its experiences, sometimes up to a hundred years ago with three decimals. This is important for SMEs, but also for start-ups. In practice, such requirements are simply hindering the promotion of innovation, aren't they? I would like a response from the Minister. What does the Minister think about the fact that Secretary of State Van Rijn will also include procurement rules in his own legislation? Shouldn't all that be in this law and be implemented through this law? The CDA hopes, of course, that the Minister will take all our points very quickly and that this will improve the quality of government and the contribution of government to society. I believe that I have ended well within my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u5	Within the time you specified, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. I don't rule out the possibility that I might exceed my agreed time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u7	What I am saying now is very dangerous, but this is legislation, and that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u8	You can't do anything, and that's why I'm afraid to say it, Mr. President. Let me begin by saying that I am sorry that there is not yet a letter on the progress of the better procurement plan following the evaluation of the Procurement Act. Actually, it's more than a pity that we're dealing with this law today, when the letter isn't there yet. If I'm correct, that letter should have been in the Chamber three months ago. How come we haven't received that letter yet? I am very interested in the plans and the progress that this Minister is making with regard to the evaluation and what should result from them. I'm in a bit of a hurry. It is strange to talk about all kinds of changes to a law, when we have not even been able to speak properly about its functioning. Anyway, now we have to. Let me therefore begin with my contribution to the legislative amendment we are discussing today. I'll start with the award criteria. The Minister has chosen to replace the most economically advantageous tender with three award criteria: the best value for money, the lowest cost based on cost-effectiveness, the lowest price. In response to our questions on this subject, the Minister wrote that the criterion of the lowest cost based on cost-effectiveness should be based on a higher quality product or better service. If the criterion is to be interpreted in this way, I wonder why it is defined separately. Surely such a thing should already be covered by the first criterion? To the Minister's explanation, this is actually a variant to the best value for money. Since the second criterion on cost-effectiveness does not need to be justified, I wonder whether it is necessary to maintain this criterion in this way. This could be defined differently by the contracting authorities. By this, of course, I mean that contracting authorities can make use of it in such a way that they can only award it at the lowest price, so that they do not have to motivate it. Does the Minister share our view that this criterion should therefore also be justified? I have tabled an amendment to this effect, because I believe that this should be the case. I hope that this amendment has now been circulated, otherwise it will come very soon. That amendment was tabled partly on behalf of the Christian Union and D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u9	If I see correctly, that is the amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you. The Minister himself states that the procurement practice needs to be improved. He announced in the evaluation of the Procurement Act that he would come forward with a plan. In the meantime, there appear to be many problems, such as compliance. These problems could have been avoided by better application by contracting authorities. I often find what I read in the evaluation documents shocking. Public authorities are poorly represented and economic operators and contracting authorities indicate that they spend more time on contracting and on justifying the deviation from the most economically advantageous tender, which happens only in half of the cases. I would also point out to the Minister that two professors in January called for the establishment of a procurement authority, which should improve not only the legal side but also the procurement technical side of the contract. The European directives make such an authority possible, but the Minister has not seized this opportunity. Has the Minister taken note of the professors' article? Why doesn't he set up such an authority? After all, we already have the centre of expertise of PIANoo and also the Commission of Procurement Experts. Why shouldn't we merge them together and make them a full authority? I also have an amendment in preparation on this point. It is an important point for me. That amendment is still being written. The European uniform self-declaration will also apply to procurement below the European public procurement limit. That's not necessarily necessary. The Minister writes that he wants to implement this in order to standardise the procurement process. The single European declaration of my own, Mr President, I shall continue to pronounce this term entirely, in order not to upset you with abbreviations, however, leads to an increase in the burden, because a company may be asked by contracting authorities to indicate how it meets the requirements. In the Dutch self-declaration it is only necessary to state that the requirement has been met. How is this not to lead to a major burden increase? I wonder whether it would be better to maintain the Dutch own declaration for non-European procurement in order to avoid this burden on entrepreneurs. Then I come to the use of the Guide proportionality by special sector companies. The Minister writes that the guide is used by half of these companies, but that he sees no reason to make this mandatory for them. I think I have seen an amendment by Mr Ziegs and Mr Bruins on this point. As far as I am concerned, the SP Group will support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u11	That is the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u12	I am curious to see the Minister's reasoning not to change this. In the pieces he sent us, I don't read them. In the Guide proportionality it says that a fee is proportional if an entrepreneur who subscribes to a tender has to incur obvious costs. Yet this is hardly being done. That remuneration is hardly given. That is why there are noises, including among entrepreneurs, that there should be a generic tender fee. What does the Minister think about that? I am not saying that I am very much in favour of such a generic tender fee, but I am in favour of reimbursement of the costs incurred to participate in a tender. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. The Commission of Procurement Experts has received a considerable number of complaints, but the number of court cases on procurement has not decreased. I also read in the committee's letter to her own evaluation that she uses little of the experts, for the reason that these experts are not in a position to write a verdict. Is writing a verdict, however, the purpose of these experts? Would it not improve the legibility of the committee's statements if the experts were more involved? In this way, not only the lodging of a complaint becomes accessible, but also the reading of the ruling. I am curious about the expected date of entry into force of this law and all the technical changes that the bill entails. Can the Minister indicate whether his tender platform has implemented the changes in time so that the three award criteria can also be used? I am still curious about the use of TenderNed. The Minister and I have often crossed swords about this in the past. Are economic operators and contracting authorities now satisfied with the use of TenderNed? In the first half of last year there was a significant number of malfunctions. In reply to my questions, the Minister replied that this improved in the second half. Is there still an upward trend? I understand from users that there are many complaints about the user-friendliness of TenderNed. For example, we are currently working hard to improve the knowledge and skills about TenderNed and about tenders with the employees of the service desk. Apparently, that knowledge isn't enough right now. There are also complaints about the possibilities that TenderNed offers, or rather, does not offer. Consider the possibility of holding a decision on an award between now and the end of the year, and the possibility of setting up cases that need to be filled in by default in each new call for tenders. As far as the latter is concerned, people other than the administrator can change things. All these complaints ensure that TenderNed users are not satisfied. The handling of complaints is certainly slow. How does the Minister view this? Is it true that some reported problems have not been resolved years later? This cannot be done, certainly not in the case of a system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr. Chairman. Every year EUR 60 billion is involved in the public procurement of products and services. That's a huge opportunity. The government can be launching customer; for the public and the president I say: a launching customer is a first customer that makes it attractive to invest in innovation and build confidence in a new product of business. The government can leverage the innovative capacity of business on societal issues. Public authorities can initiate social and sustainable change. The Dutch business community has a lot to offer the government, such as smart products and important services. It is important that every company has fair access to tenders. This also benefits the government. After all, the bigger the market, the more competition on innovative ideas and on price. It is also important that the administrative burden is low and that the process is transparent. It is also important for entrepreneurs to have a strong legal position if they feel disadvantaged. Last year the Procurement Act was reviewed. The tests give a mixed picture. We hear very positive sounds about the Guide proportionality. The burden seems to have fallen. However, we also see major shortcomings. Registration costs have increased, the share of SMEs in the award of public contracts has not increased and the application of the EMFI criteria.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Why does the Minister leave aside the opportunity to improve these matters now, starting with the government itself? As every entrepreneur knows, you have to comply with the law. Then why don't governments do that? The ban on unnecessarily merging contracts, the cluster ban, is being violated massively. According to SMEs INFRA, last year's unnecessary clusters increased from 18% to 27%. I would also like to mention the example of the permanent maintenance of the area of the State of the West of the Netherlands South. My colleague Carola Schouten asked questions about this in Question Time last year. Clustering resulted in a single large contract that excluded SMEs in advance. How does the Minister intend to improve compliance with the rules, both in the Empire and in other governments? What does the Minister think of the idea of a supervisor who opposes these unfair procurement practices? I am thinking, for example, of an adoption chamber and an annual report. This could also be covered by PIANoo. I would like to get a response from the Minister on this idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u14	I have just heard Mrs Mulder talking about it, fortunately, Mr Bruins is talking about it now, and I will say something about unnecessary clustering. This is the unnecessary merging, unnecessary throwing into one pile of all kinds of, in fact, more individual tasks in the natural sense, so that small entrepreneurs no longer have a chance. We once tabled and adopted an amendment on this, and there were unnecessary clusters in it. That seems to be too soft, witnessing Mr Bruins' story. Would Mr Bruins be in favour of tabling an amendment that simply bans clustering?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u15	I think that by simply banning clusters, you might also give the business community difficulties. I think you need the word unnecessary. What you do need is an independent body that assesses whether something is unnecessary or not. Countering clusters should not lead to a fragmentation of super-small assignments if this is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr Bruins is quite right about that. I don't think it's right to cut up assignments. We have discussed this in detail the previous times when we dealt with this law. We can't and we don't want to. We just don't want the assembly to happen. I think there's a wide-ranging desire in the Chamber to resolve that. The word unnecessary has made it too spacious. Does the Christian Union agree with D66 that we should seek a solution to put an end to the clustering of these tasks and to the "mass is checkout" behaviour of municipalities and provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u17	I am prepared to look for a sensible text, in which we could make this intention visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u18	If you are looking for a text, take my suggestion to use the word "merge" instead of "clustering."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr President, I am very pleased with that. I will see if I can apply that in the text online. And then online is another English word of course. How does the Minister view the emergence of purchasing and purchasing centres? In practice, this leads in particular to unnecessary aggregation of tasks, for example by municipalities. How does he reconcile that with the legal definition of the central purchasing body? Then there is the administrative burden. The Dutch uniform self-declaration will perish and a uniform European tender document will return for it. The Minister also acknowledges that this European standard is detrimental to the burden of the entrepreneur. So that's not an improvement, it's a deterioration of the law. Why can't we continue to apply the Dutch declaration of our own within the European rules? I would like to challenge the Minister to further reduce the administrative burden. Can he promise that the new law will lead to lower administrative burdens for entrepreneurs and public authorities? In this context, how does the Minister look back on the frequent and unnecessary application of EMFI criteria? Has this not led to much more unnecessary bureaucracy, whereas in the end it was simply awarded at the lowest price? Look at the increased bid costs by 63% due to the use of EMVI. The Minister himself concludes in his letter that by sly application of weights, the award criterion best price-quality ratio in practice also amounts to the lowest price. The Christian Union agrees with the Minister that this is not a good implementation of the law. We also agree with him that there is no need to amend the law on this issue, but implementation needs to be greatly improved. Now, in practice, the tenderer often wins with the lowest price, but the administrative burden for entrepreneurs has increased considerably, because a lot of paperwork is needed to underpin the quality that hardly counts in the weights. The Commission of Procurement Experts has argued that the valuation of the qualitative aspects of tenders should have a significant impact on their ranking. I would very much like the Minister to maintain this, at least in the case of public procurement. The Christian Union calls on the Minister to do more on this issue than on information. Contracting authorities should seriously address the best value for money award criterion and should not be afraid to choose and motivate another award criterion. The Christian Union is in favour of the "best price-quality ratio unless" principle, even now the award criteria are extended to include the cost-effectiveness criterion. My name is therefore under Mr Gesthuizen's amendment. The Christian Union has also strongly insisted on the establishment of the Commission of Procurement Experts and on sufficient financial resources to provide rapid clarity for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs do not quickly go to court, so an independent ombud function is very important. The evaluation shows positive results, but does the committee have sufficient financial resources to make a quick decision? The signals about this are worrying. I also hear signs that some governments are simply ignoring the statements made by this committee. How does the Minister feel about that? I would like to hear from the Minister how he intends to strengthen this committee. The use of all kinds of new procurement procedures, contract forms and EMFI criteria raises the costs for entrepreneurs, we hear. In the Guide on Proportionality and in the Procurement Regulations on Works, it is stated that there should be a tender fee for the Entrepreneur in case of significant costs. Does the Minister wish to raise a proportionate remuneration among tenderers? And should this not be established much more uniformly, for example by a sharper text in the Guide Proportionality? I'd like a response. In 2012, that guide was anchored in the law by an amendment by ChristianUnion and VVD, the Schouten/Ziengs amendment. Mandatory application of the Guide ensures greater transparency and fair procurement processes. Companies are positive about it. It counteracts high grounds for exclusion and eligibility requirements. If the turnover requirements are high or the requirements for reference projects are exceeded, a large part of the market cannot compete in advance. SMEs are particularly affected by this. In 2012, the legal guarantee was applied to contracting authorities. The Christian Union and the VVD now want this to apply to companies from special sectors such as ProRail, TenneT, NS, Schiphol, the NAM and Port companies. This ensures greater clarity and a level playing field. At present, almost half of the special sector companies use the guide. The Minister is positive about that, but I say that the other half do not yet use the guide. I therefore hope that the Minister and the Chamber will support this amendment. I am currently being harassed by special sector companies not to table this amendment. That confirms to me that it is therefore necessary to submit it. If the guide were to be used, there would be no problem with this amendment. The new law should also provide more opportunities for innovative and sustainable procurement. I note that, above all, the existing practice is laid down by law. There are certainly positive elements in that. For example, labels can be more explicitly included in the procurement procedure and more requirements can be imposed on the environmental impact of production methods and the degree of recycling. Is this gonna go far enough? The Christian Union believes that public procurement offers the right opportunities for innovation and sustainability. How is the government going to make more work of sustainable purchasing? Innovative procurement should be the standard. Business is already far beyond the level of government. The possibility of market consultation should be applied more frequently. Not to close the tender from above, but to give businesses the opportunity to come up with new solutions. Would the Minister like to set objectives in the field of innovative procurement? The new innovation partnership makes me very excited. A product can be developed exclusively from the development phase and then purchased by the government. This can also offer opportunities for local pilots, for start-up projects with SMEs. Partnerships not only need to be public-private, but can also develop between companies. Waterboards are already working on this. Does the Minister also see the Innovation Partnership in this way? Does he want to work with pilots in which SMEs collaborate in procurement in order to come up with innovative solutions? Let us use this debate today to reduce the administrative burden on business while at the same time using the government as a driving force for innovation in Dutch business. This is the only way to achieve more than it costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr. Chairman. A new European directive provides for a legislative amendment to the Procurement Act, which we are discussing today. The amendment is aimed at these European adjustments and not at the principles of the law itself. An in-depth review of this was announced in the letter in 2019, including at EU level. I'll come back to that later. The Labour Party supports the aim of strengthening SMEs' opportunities in competing for public procurement. I believe that there are few subjects discussed in this House that are so enthusiastic and supportive of Chamberwide. Yet there are still many monkeys and bears on the road and there are many problems. As far as we are concerned, tenders should be something other than a race to the bottom at the lowest price, whereby standards that we agree on in other areas of legislation are trampled on. We want to stimulate innovation and it must not be hampered by a bureaucratic organisation of the market from Brussels. Procurement in the context of the reception of asylum seekers, where local support is more important than ever, should focus on active participation by local and regional businesses. Too often we hear that the opposite is the case. From this point of view, and also in the light of the extensive written preparation, we still have a number of questions and concerns. We'd like to hear the reaction from the cabinet. The Minister states that contracts can be delimited and divided into lots by the Guide Proportionality. As a result, there would be more opportunities for SMEs. However, the number of SME awards is lagging behind. We are very concerned about that. Can the Minister say again how he thinks this will improve in the coming years? What is the policy of the Empire itself? Look at the tender the tax authorities have made towards the mail. That's gonna be a race to the bottom, too. What is the position of SMEs and staff? How does the Ministry of I and M implement the principle of proportionality in the procurement of infrastructure works? I and M are one of the biggest purchasers and all we hear is that there are constantly clustering and merging large tasks where the opportunities for SMEs are extremely small. Can the Minister state what is going on with the Ministry of Defence when it fills in its task in this matter? In the case of tenders in Middelburg, we recently saw that Defense chose the so-called DBFMO. These are contracts that require, among other things, 25-year maintenance contracts. Therefore, they are often too large, too complex and therefore unattainable for local SMEs. What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? Many believe that tenders at the lowest price are still too common. We are still concerned about procurement according to the EMFI principle, which ultimately only leads to award at the lowest price. My colleagues have already pointed this out. The legal adjustments seek to put this into perspective. Can the Minister indicate whether the planned measures are really going to give sufficient opportunities to SMEs? I would also like to reflect on the role and commitment of the government itself. I have mentioned a number of departments, and according to the Labour Party, there is a world to be won. The Secretary of State of the United States of America, Mr Van Rijn, has recently decided, as we read in the media, that in the case of procurement, for example, a decent remuneration for the staff, for example, based on the frameworks in legal agreements, for example in a collective agreement. Therefore, one should not rely on what the provider subscribes to, but on at least the legally agreed framework. That must be led, according to the Secretary of State. Will the cabinet accept this proposal in respect of many other sectors? Shouldn't this have been included in this law, too? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. There are also concerns about the procurement opportunities of municipalities in the context of the reception of asylum seekers. The COA works with tender contracts that favour nationwide companies. As a result, local businesses are on the sidelines or can only participate as subcontractors. Can the Minister say how municipalities, with this law in their hands, can possibly take up procurement for refugee shelters themselves? This could be done in conjunction with the COA. Can municipalities simply take the initiative? I'd like to hear a response. Concerns have been expressed about the fact that once won tenders are forced into a format that should hardly be allowed to deviate from during implementation. As a result, innovation during the duration of the contract is inhibited or made impossible. In fact, changing the approach should lead to a new call for tenders, as appropriate, according to the rules. Can the Minister indicate how, within the framework of this law, innovation leading to still unknown solutions or products will still be able to take place? This should be done, but now there is a bureaucratic brake which would prohibit the subsequent development of such products. Is there a need for an amendment? Or does the Minister say that with this law in hand, that is not necessary and that we give sufficient room for innovation during the process? Does the Minister therefore consider that there is sufficient room for this after the tender has already been completed and has been awarded to an implementing and developing party? I still have a few loose ends. My colleague Vermeij, together with Mr Van Weyenberg, tabled a motion during the consultation with Social Affairs on tackling labour market discrimination. The operative part of that motion calls on the Government to examine how exclusion grounds for demonstrable labour market discrimination can be extended in the Procurement Act. The government is also invited to look at a greater role for the SZW and the Human Rights College. Can the Minister state the state of play regarding the implementation of this motion? There will also be adjustments in which fortunately the workings of the approach to dummy structures will be discussed more often. It is clear that this will also often apply to public authorities and registration companies and that it will have to be monitored. To what extent does guaranteeing the False Constructions Act in the Procurement Act encounter problems with European regulation? Is it true that European regulation makes the lowest price the only award criterion that you can make compulsory? Can social award criteria and sustainability criteria be included, but can they not be made mandatory as the sole award criterion? I would like to hear a response to this and I would like to hear a clarification of this somewhat technical-legal question. Is it also possible to amend the law to ensure that the Empire makes sustainable purchases in its own procurement procedures? A number of motions have now been adopted in the Chamber for this choice, but this has not yet been translated into policy. Can we do that through this law? Or should this still be laid down in other regulations? I'd like to hear a response to this. At the moment, Mr Elias is in the chair. It will not be unknown to him that there has been a Elias committee. I hardly dare to summarize the conclusions of that committee in two or three rules, because then I am sure the President will call me to order. Still, I'm gonna try. The Elias Commission has shown that it has often gone awesomely wrong in procurement concerning the design of ICT. In what way have the findings of the report of the Elias Commission been reflected in this law, I ask the Minister through the chairman. Maybe I'll ask the Minister on behalf of the President, but I can't say. Colleagues have already pointed out the high costs of tendering and tendering. We want a lot, the books are getting thicker and more complicated and the costs are flying up. We are very reluctant to ask for tender fees, because before you know it, there are offices that are going to specialise in registrations and get fees for them. At the same time, we see that the costs go through the roof. How are we going to strike a better balance in this, so that it remains interesting for SMEs to sign up for tenders? My colleague from the Christian Union has already pointed out that our own declaration, as we have it under Dutch law, must be exchanged for a European model regulation, which only leads to higher costs. Why is that necessary? Haven't we been paying attention in Europe? Can't we still deviate from that? Why can't we just organize that in the Netherlands? I pointed out at the beginning that there is an evaluation by the Commission of the basic principles of this Procurement Act. That's what we're looking forward to. How are the Member States involved in this process? In what way are Minister and Ministry already involved in this process? At what stage is the House going to debate this? We believe that this will be an in-depth assessment. It seems that we all want to support SMEs here and that we agree on all kinds of charities, but when we talk about tendering, we're going to create the most complicated and bureaucratic market organisation, while it's very simple: we want a number of things like Chamber majority, whether it's sustainable buying or other issues. Then we make it incredibly complicated with each other to achieve that goal through our Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr Monasch has said very valuable things about the conditions under which it is outsourced and the people who carry out a contract for a contractor. I'm very happy about that. But I am also interested in the PvdA's view of this government's intention to allow special contracts to be awarded to SW companies if there are not 50% but 30% of social jobs within such companies. How does the Labour Party feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u22	I would first like to await the Minister's response. Then I will return to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u23	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u24	I was impressed by Mr Monasch's speech. A while ago there was another spokesperson of the PvdA, who felt that when it came to tenders, companies apparently "wanted to eat out of that big ruffle of the government." Then I wondered, "What's going on here?'. What am I talking about? To so-called tendering. There is currently an initiative paper in the area of the Market and Government Act, from the hands of D66 and VVD, which has a direct relationship with the Procurement Act. In fact, we are seeing a huge movement in the field of procurement. What does Mr Monasch think of the proposal to abolish the provision of general interest, so that companies are given much more opportunities to participate in public procurement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u25	I would like to start a fantastic debate on this with Mr Ziengs, but there is a great deal behind this. His colleague Verhoeven knows that the concept of "general interest" in the context of housing has all kinds of consequences. I would like to comment on that, but I think it would be wise to have that discussion at a later date. I also consider the general interest to be of great value. In the housing of the people, very valuable things have happened that were never realized by the market. Let's look at that from case to case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u26	I will not go into any further details. However, if Mr Monasch had to opt for procurement or procurement, what choice would he make?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u27	You know, we all go away from our portfolio often to visit companies. In recent times, in the context of my new spokespersonship, I have been visiting a whole series of companies. A temporary agency was concerned, in particular, about the policy of a municipality, where all assignments in the framework of temporary agency work or work to re-activate people are placed at a very large agency, which means that that agency is no longer involved. That is the kind of signals that I think are far more important at the moment. Again, I would be happy to enter into the debate on tendering or contracting, but let us do so when the legislative proposal is in place. I think it is wonderful that my colleagues have taken that initiative, but let us have the debate at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u28	I have nothing against debate in this Chamber. So go easy on yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u29	That's how I know you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u30	I see the enthusiasm on this subject with you, Mr President, and also with Mr Monasch and Mr Ziengs. I would therefore like to put a short question to Mr Monasch. In fact, he had a good argument about the position of SMEs and employees. He doesn't want a race to the bottom, but a real race to the bottom threatens to arise because many municipalities, based on the open article on general interest in the Market and Government Act, do a lot of tasks themselves instead of giving them to SMEs. What does Mr Monasch think of this in general terms? In his own speech he said that SMEs should be given a good chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u31	That will really vary from one case to another. We have had wonderful debates with each other on housing. We both know that much of that would not have been realized if we had left it to the market alone. At the same time, we sometimes see market failures where we think: why doesn't the market pick it up, shouldn't the government? However, the government is not allowed to do so. It is therefore a rather complex matter. For me, it is not a matter of principle. I think we should look on a case-by-case basis where we can look for the best performer. My experience is, but I also speak here as a former entrepreneur, that it is better to leave it to business in general. I do want to make good agreements about this, because it must not be the case that the implementation then becomes a race to the bottom or that only the low-hanging fruit is done by business. Balance is therefore extremely important. You need to keep a close eye on market failures. We stand for the realization of things in the public domain. If the market doesn't work, we're gonna do it as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u32	I have always been very enthusiastic about Mr Monasch as a spokesperson, but I am also starting to get very excited about Mr Monasch as an economics spokesman. I see a good movement here at the Labour Party, which goes a little more towards confidence in business rather than always paternalistic shielding and letting the government do everything. That's good; compliments for that. We have two open articles that hurt SMEs a lot. We were just talking about the article on general interest in the Market and Government Act. There is also the open article on unnecessary clustering, which I have just spoken to Mr Bruins about. That article gives too much room for misbehavior that harms SMEs. Will Mr Monasch do something with me on that second point which is really significant for small and medium-sized enterprises? Does he want to find a way to prevent that clustering?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u33	Absolutely. It just seemed like a semantic discussion, but it was right to discuss what lies between 'unnecessary' and 'banned'. There's a lot of things in between. I am also curious to hear what the Minister has to say about this. I believe that I made it quite clear in my speech that the government must also look at itself carefully and that there are not too many things combined in many different ways. It's called, with an expensive word, "clustering." The government must prevent this as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u34	Mr Verhoeven still? No, you don't. Mrs. Gesthuizen, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u35	I do, Mr President, but I did not realize that Mr Verhoeven would be allowed to go again, because I wanted to pick up on this point. It is not a semantic discussion at all. We discussed this in detail in the Chamber under Minister Verhoeven; Mr Verhoeven reminded me just now. At first there was an amendment by Mr Verhoeven and myself not to cluster. At the request of the government, this was made into "unnecessary clusters." That did not have the effect we had hoped for. So it would be nice if there were a majority in the House of Representatives that said: we should look at whether we can do something more, so we are making an amendment saying that we should not be clustered. How does the Group of the Party of European Socialists view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u36	In that respect, I was very interested to listen to you, because Mr Bruins was right to state what does not mean to merge. We all want clarity. I don't think we need to beat each other up about this. That's okay, but I don't think that's the issue. The question is how we achieve that goal. If we say that there should not be clustering, then it is almost a question of whether you can contract the hammers but not the nails. Should they be tendered separately?I make it very small, because then at least that is clear to everyone or can you offer the hammers and nails in one package? We have to be careful that it doesn't become something ridiculous in itself. So let us, also in the debate with the Minister, avoid merging issues that should not be merged, and look at where that should be given a chance to make things more efficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u37	That was not quite the answer Mrs Gesthuizen wanted to hear, I have the impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u38	How did you guess, Mr. Chairman? It's not ridicul at all and it's not a semantic discussion either. That example of the hammers and nails is outside of this. It is important that contracts are combined, which makes them too large for an SME, for example. It has to work with complex structures, together with other companies, in order to be eligible for such an assignment. That is a bad thing, and that is exactly what we are talking about. Of course, there is always a grey area somewhere, but this principle of clustering assignments, which actually puts 95% of your business out of play. That's the share of SMEs in the Netherlands. That's what the PvdA Group says "we do feel for"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u39	I am open to that direction, but I would like to have the debate properly first and second time. We must not achieve the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr. Chairman. I understand that Mr Graus will be the last to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u41	Just start with your story. I'll do the order. I'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u42	I asked about the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u43	Mr. Graus is the last.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u44	Fine! Mr. Chairman. 60 billion. As Mr Bruins said, every year the general government in the Netherlands spends more than 60 billion euros on purchasing products and services. 60 billion! That is really a lot of money, and that is why it is very important that there are good rules on how the money is spent. That is what the Procurement Act regulates, and with it it is a very important law, perhaps one of the most important laws we know, at least for small and medium-sized enterprises. Today we are talking about the implementation of the Treaty of Rome, and I believe that that word can be just now, President-in-Office of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u45	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u46	...two European directives to improve the current Procurement Act. This is also urgently needed, as is shown by the evaluation of the current Procurement Act. The overall picture is moderately positive, but there are also a lot of critical notes to crack. I'll mention a few. The share of small and medium-sized enterprises in the award of public contracts increased little or nothing between 2012 and 2014. Small and medium-sized enterprises registered in public procurement markets won relatively less often than large companies. SMEs are critical of their own access to public procurement. Two thirds of entrepreneurs found the requirements too high, not proportionate. Innovation and sustainability have also been used relatively little as assessment criteria on the basis of which a public authority may or may not award to a particular company. The evaluation of innovative purchases also shows that we have no idea whether the target of 2.5% of innovative purchases is actually being achieved. D66 is known as a sustainable party with a warm heart for the climate; our fingers are green. That's why I'm starting with sustainability as an assessment criterion. The evaluation of the Procurement Act shows that sustainability is only an assessment criterion in public procurement in 13% of cases, whereas we have established, almost Chamberwide, that we need to make our economy greener and that the total budget of 60 billion in public procurement can make an important contribution to this. In short, that should be better. D66 is based on the assumption that in all procurement sustainability is an assessment criterion and that it really pays for companies to be sustainable. It makes sense for the government to take into account the social costs of non-sustainable products or services, such as the social costs of CO emissions. That is why I have tabled two amendments. I don't know what the numbers are, but maybe you can say that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u47	12 and 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u48	This should facilitate the use of sustainability criteria, for example by explicitly including sustainability criteria as an option in the law, within the new award criterion in this law of the best value for money. That was already possible, but it is strangely not yet explicitly stated in the law. If that is the case, I expect procurement services to take more account of this and to use sustainability more often as an assessment criterion. In addition, I tabled an amendment on the calculation of the lowest costs within the award criterion on the basis of cost-effectiveness. For example, the law explicitly states that social costs arising from CO emissions must be taken into account. The CO-Performance ladder is a good example of how this can be taken into account in procurement. Giving the opportunity alone is not enough. Procurement services should also be encouraged to use this option, because, as I said, sustainability is used only in 13% of cases as an assessment criterion. Does the Minister agree with D66 that sustainability should be an assessment criterion for all tenders? Is the Minister prepared to set itself the objective of ensuring that, for example, in 2020, sustainability is an assessment criterion for 50% and not 13% of tenders? Is the Minister prepared to take concrete steps in this direction? My next point is about the start-ups. The evaluation shows that there is still much to be gained in terms of innovative purchasing. I am pleased that these two European directives pay explicit attention to this, but I do wonder whether the amendments to this bill are sufficient to implement those two directives. During the round table held by the Chamber a few months ago, several speakers questioned a number of aspects of this bill. For example, too many requirements would be imposed on the Innovation Partnership. According to Article 2.22, second paragraph, for example, the estimated value of the research and development activities must be calculated. Is this really possible if an innovative solution to a particular problem has not yet been found? How can you determine the value of the research activities? It has also been suggested to exclude the development of innovative ideas or prototypes from the procurement obligation. How does the Minister view this suggestion? The aim of the government is to spend 2.5% of all government purchases, that is of the 60 billion; we should not forget that figure to spend on innovative products and services. Why was 2.5% chosen? Could we not do much more to stimulate innovation, for example by doubling the target from 2.5% to 5%? Is the Minister prepared to do so? Then we are moving beyond an innovative country like the United States. Another very relevant question is: how much do we actually spend? The Progress Report on Innovation-oriented Purchasing states that it is not possible to indicate whether the target figure of 2.5% has also been reached in amounts and that monitoring systems need to be developed further in order to understand this. What about the development of the monitoring system? Exactly how much do we spend on innovative shopping? D66 has been advocating the extension of the use of SBIR schemes for years. SBIR stands for Small Business Innovation Research. These schemes stimulate innovative research by smaller companies. I think I have now passed the test of 'understandable language by parliamentarians'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u49	I would call it SME innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u50	You say it even more fundamentally, Mr President, but let us not turn it into a competition, because we are engaged in a serious debate full of complicated terms, and that debate is aimed at improving the practice of small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, these SBIR schemes, those schemes for innovative SME research, are there to find innovative solutions to societal problems. For example, drones flying over forbidden areas are being used to remove them from the air or to allow people with learning difficulties to better deal with the complexity of modern life. Solutions are being sought for this. The Central Planning Bureau also recently underlined the importance of SBIR schemes in its report Kansrijk innovation policy. Does the Minister endorse this conclusion of the Central Planning Bureau? In the 2014 budget debate, I proposed that such an SBIR scheme should be included in each of the five themes of the science agenda. The Minister thought that was an interesting idea at the time, but he also thought it was premature, because the Science Agenda had not been published at the time. In the meantime that is true, with beautiful social questions as a result. I'm quoting three. How can we store energy sustainably and efficiently? How do we develop less radical techniques and interventions for the diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of patients? And, about big data: can we use the large datasets and collect them for realising values, generating insights and getting answers? Is the Minister prepared to start at least one SBIR scheme on each of these issues when answering these interesting questions submitted by citizens and businesses? So I'm actually asking him again now that we're a step further in time. My next point is the accessibility of small and medium-sized enterprises in procurement contracts. It is very disappointing that the share of small and medium-sized enterprises in the award of public contracts has not increased, while participation has remained virtually unchanged. The colleagues Mulder, Ziegs, Bruins and Gesthuizen have already said so. How does the Minister explain that? We talk very often about the position of small and medium-sized enterprises. Whether it is tax regulations, procurement or the regulatory burden on entrepreneurs, it is always about the position of SMEs. And often we fail to really improve it. I know this minister does, so how does he explain that? The Minister has already said that the implementation of this directive is unlikely to affect the position of small and medium-sized enterprises and that the scope for improvement lies in the application of the law in particular. How does the Minister intend to ensure that the law is applied better? What action is he going to take to do this? Mr Gesthuizen has already said a few things, yes, it has actually said sensible things, for example about a tendering authority. I fully agree with that. I therefore agree with what Mrs Gesthuizen said about a tendering authority. This could play a role in monitoring compliance, could give a place to the Commission of Procurement Experts and could actually improve the professionalisation of procurement practice. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he looks at a procurement authority. D66 also agrees with the amendment of the SP, which aims to introduce the obligation of motivation at the lowest price also with the new criterion that is now being created, of the lowest cost based on cost-effectiveness. This is in order to maintain the "economically most advantageous tender, unless" principle. This is very good for small and medium-sized enterprises. I have two final points. I will begin with labour market discrimination. In my view, I have the same question as Mr Monasch on the motion by my colleague Mr Van Weyenberg on the grounds of exclusion for demonstrable labour market discrimination. These can be extended in the Procurement Act, for example by giving a greater role to the SZW Inspection, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment and the Human Rights College. When does the Minister expect this investigation to be completed? Finally, I come to clustering and merging. I always thought that would be solved by the combination of the Guide Proportionality of Christian Union and VVD and the Verhoeven/Gesthuizen amendment to ban clustering. That's been naive. It has been drawing-table policy, because indeed we are still getting a lot of complaints about clustering. I also know that no more clusters at all may lead to the other extreme, where nothing is allowed at all and we are even further away from home; Mr Monasch is right in that. So we need to think this through. I agree with Mr Monasch, but the current situation leads to too many unnecessary clusters and unnecessary aggregations of contracts, leading to larger contracts leading to fewer opportunities for SMEs. We don't want any of that in this room. I will shortly try to put forward a constructive motion on this, as the Minister of mine is used to, which will enable us all to look at how we can resolve this in a sensible way without losing one extreme for the other, but to improve the position of small and medium-sized enterprises in these tasks in relation to the way in which governments place them on the market. That brings me to the end of my first term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u51	In this context, I would like to refer to the debate on turnover requirements, in which we said at the time: explain or apply, so comply or explain. Would that perhaps help the situation around the cluster band?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u52	That's an interesting suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u53	This is being continued, so I have the impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u54	Mr. Chairman. The handling of the Procurement Act in 2012 seems only recently. Although there were proposals at the time to wait for the European directive to be implemented at the time, we continued to do so. That is a good thing, because with the experience we have gained since 2012 and which has already been evaluated in 2015, we can improve the law. The starting point of the VVD was and is that small and medium-sized enterprises must have ample access to public procurement. Other spokesmen have already said a few things about this, because the evaluation does not give any immediate cause for concern on this point. Although a clear majority of SMEs indicate that the measures taken at the time are valued, the proportion of contracts awarded to SMEs has not grown. The Minister states that he cannot properly assess whether this could be due to the economic situation in the previous years. Monitoring in the coming years will have to show whether there will be improvement. At what frequency does the Minister intend to share this monitoring with the Chamber? Does he have any options to intervene at a constant rate? Could the promised letter be better awarded, which I have not been able to find out in the documents, perhaps? In 2012, the proportionality guide became part of the law thanks to the Schouten/Ziengs amendment. It is therefore good to read that this guide makes an important contribution to the proportionality of procurement practice. Even almost half of the special sector companies use this guide. Other spokesmen have also pointed this out. Its value has been proven, according to the VVD. However, the Minister considers that the outcome of the evaluation does not give rise to a legal obligation for the special sector companies. The VVD doesn't think so. That is why there is the Bruins/Ziengs amendment in part No. 9 which my colleague from the Christian Union has already announced. This amendment provides for special sector companies to follow the proportionality guide. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he supports this amendment. Then we still have the most economically advantageous tender, which I will also mention EMVI. SMEs were very enthusiastic in 2012 that this criterion was the first to be used in the procurement process. But the practice turns out to be more uncomfortable. In recent years, this criterion has led to higher administrative burdens for both the contracting authority and the tenderer. I certainly didn't mean to. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister is going to use better information to give this award criterion a better chance of success. EMVI should also lead to more innovation. These are new techniques developed by, for example, start-ups. Let me translate this: the innovative starters on the market. It is unclear whether those start-ups actually get a chance and whether governments want to become the first user of such a technique, so as a launching customer. Mr Lucas's start-up agenda has led to Mrs Kroes' wide coverage of this issue. With StartupDelta, it therefore requests by letter to evaluate the initiatives in this area by the five major municipalities and by the other best practices in the course of next year. I wonder how the Minister looks at this. Then I come to the Commission of Procurement Experts. The name says it all: these are experts in the field of procurement. In the 2012 debate, I called for a committee with teeth. In the meantime, the other spokesmen are strongly insisting on this during this debate. The then Minister assured me that such a committee of experts would certainly be taken seriously by the government. There was no need for far-reaching powers. The experience has taught us differently. The Committee found that the tender of a scan street by the Tax Administration, also mentioned by colleague Mulder, was incorrect. Nevertheless, the same government ignored this ruling. The Commission of Procurement Experts has proved its worth. There has been no increase in the number of court cases. However, the number of cases notified to the committee has increased. By letter dated 13 July 2015, the Minister also indicated that the committee was highly appreciated by those involved. In that letter, the Minister announced an extension of the committee and spoke of further professionalisation. How am I supposed to explain that? To what extent will further professionalisation of these experts lead to statements that cannot be ignored by the government but may be binding? How does the Minister view this? I now turn to the so-called own statement. It was already incorporated into the law in 2012 and was immediately a success in reducing administrative burdens. From the documents, I note that there is a European model here in 2016. I've just heard other spokesmen say it's a burden increase. I have not been able to read that directly, but perhaps the Minister can clarify it. Is this a reduction in charges or is it an increase in charges? The Minister's intention to increase the deadline between the last note of information and the deadline for submitting six days to 10 days may support the VVD. We fully support the proposed changes to introduce a competitive dialogue, to avoid conflicts of interest with measures and to explicitly incorporate market consultation possibilities into the law. With the introduction of the 2012 Procurement Act, the EMVI award has created the situation that a much more frequent quality part needs to be developed in the offer. As a result, costs for companies have increased substantially. This often involves planning approaches, visions, risk analyses and sometimes models, presentations or parts of designs. It is not unreasonable to grant compensation for this, which is also possible under the law. The Minister has now promised to adapt the conditions of the state buy-in so that such costs can be reimbursed. Can the Minister indicate at what time these conditions will be adjusted? Finally. The VVD and D66 have submitted an initiative paper on the Market and Government Act. Under this law, the so-called procurement must be restricted on the basis of the general interest. This provision of general interest was amended in 2010 by the CDA and the PvdA. Only the VVD voted against this law. I'm glad to hear that the CDA is also saying that it can do one less tooth. I'm finding that it's better to turn halfway than to go all the way astray. Can the Minister indicate the deadline for an evaluation of that law to the Chamber because of the direct link with the procurement? So much for my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u55	Mrs. Gesthuizen rushed to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u56	There have already been a number of interrupting debates on clusters. From time to time, D66 makes a very useful contribution to this type of debate by pointing this out once again. How does the VVD Group view it that, for example, in order to avoid unnecessary and inappropriate clustering to our taste, a little more direction would be given, for example, by including something about it in the Guide Proportionality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u57	I think I have just given a small impetus to the question I put to Mr Verhoeven. I experienced the debate at the time, and I know that in the end we all had the intention that there would be no clustering, with the knowledge that sometimes there is no other way. That is why I made the proposal to add something in the vein of: explain or apply, comply or explain. If we think in that form, I think we can agree for a long time. Perhaps it can be incorporated into the proportionality guide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u58	Mr. Chairman. Anyone who reads the evaluation of the Procurement Act a year ago would think that the procurement in our country is going well. However, in the round table, which I myself was allowed to chair, which we had a few months ago, a very different picture was sketched. That came out very clearly. I assume the minister's people followed that. All invited parties had several points to draw attention to the current law, whether it is about the unnecessary merging, I will not call it clusters, the costs of EMVI, the lack of tender fees, low participation of small and medium-sized enterprises, lack of transparency, which was also often referred to as the imposition of disproportionate requirements, a government that is increasingly contracting and so on. People sometimes wonder what EMVI stands for. In other words: most economically advantageous tender. That's what I wanted to say. I'll stop with the list, but I can go on for a while. The colleagues have all been present. They can vouch for it. My first question is how the Minister explains the difference between the positive evaluation of last year's Procurement Act and the rather negative picture that the experts we heard brought forward at the round table meeting at the end of last year. They weren't the first to be there. There really were people who knew what it was about, just like this minister. I don't underestimate the minister and his people. Another point that was raised during the round table and which we faced with the Minister in the written input is the high degree of corruption experienced by entrepreneurs in public procurement. I'd like to get a reaction to that. In the Eurobarometer survey, as many as 52% of entrepreneurs claim that corruption is widespread in purchasing by local or regional authorities. In the written reply, the Minister states that we score better than the European average on most points. I'm sure it is. Wait till Ukraine joins us, then we'll all notice. I would like to say a few words about it. I alerted the Minister years ago that franchisees were in trouble. Then the minister said he didn't, because he didn't know about it. After a few years, it turned out I was just right. In the meantime, a code of conduct and everything has been drawn up. I just had a point. Then I confronted the minister here in the plenary with dispaying municipalities. That was years ago. Then the minister came up with a list and he said, "Look, they're paying like hell. When it turned out that the payment behaviour of the municipalities was very bad. I would like to get a response to that 52%, because perhaps the Minister will wave it away and say: there comes the PVV again with nonsense. But we got right with those franchisees, when the Minister also said from trade union K that it wasn't true, and with the dispaying municipalities. That's why I'm emphasising it. The Minister must continue to take us seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u59	I just heard Mr Graus say: wait until Ukraine joins. I wonder what exactly he meant by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u60	I was talking about corruption, so that's why. Perhaps Mr Verhoeven did not hear what I just said, namely that the Minister said in a written response that we are doing quite well compared to the European average. I actually said a little bit as a joke. Where did Mr Verhoeven's humour go? It is true that this will be a good thing and that we will do it very well when Ukraine comes to it in a moment. Mr Verhoeven understands what I mean, doesn't he? I'd be happy to explain it to him in a moment while he's enjoying a stuffed cake outside the room. People here get it all. I'd be happy to explain it to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u61	Then the people in the room will understand better than I do. My sense of humor is still there, but it seems good to me to get it clear. The President and you stand together in clarifying the debate, so I would also like to clarify something. You just said Ukraine is joining us. I ask a very simple question: where does Ukraine come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u62	We are talking about Europe and the European Union, and that is what we are talking about. I was joking about that: wait until Ukraine joins us, then we will do even better. Mr Verhoeven, I will leave out my Limburg humour, because I do not think you have a sense of humor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u63	There are few people who accuse me of not having a sense of humor, so I will leave that to Mr Graus. I like jokes, but it is also a joke for Mr Graus to say that Ukraine is joining the European Union. He doesn't mean that. He knows as well as I do that Ukraine is not joining the European Union. All the people here in the bleachers know that. All the people who follow the debate know that. Let us, apart from our sense of humor, conclude that Ukraine is not joining the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u64	Mr Graus is going to reply briefly and then we will go back to the Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u65	We are the last people to want to join Ukraine, we even want to leave the European Union. As long as we're in this mess, we don't want any more of it. I was just saying, especially if Ukraine joins us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u66	The next item is the Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u67	He's gotta laugh about it, Mr. Chairman. I got him laughing anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u68	Mr Graus, the next item is the Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u69	He doesn't want to admit it, but a PVV guy got a D66 guy laughing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u70	Mr Graus, we will continue with the Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr President, you may also show a little sense of humor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u72	No, because the whole room is waiting for a vote. You're just gonna keep going now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u73	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. As far as the Freedom Party is concerned, this legislative amendment should therefore be primarily aimed at improving the picture of missing transparency and corruption. This can be achieved by setting objective transparent requirements, no more tailor-made procurement and awarding contracts on the basis of concrete, measurable criteria. The legislative proposal facilitates the possibility for contracting authorities to impose more subjective sustainability requirements, which is very important for Mr Verhoeven, social criteria or working conditions. It is true that the Minister states that these requirements must be proportionate, but without a supervisor there is no one to monitor them. I would like to hear from the Minister where the border is between proportional and disproportionate; I have been asking directors for ten years. No one can ever answer that. There is also talk of "significant" and "not significant." It's all mentioned, but where's the border? I would like to know where the Minister lays the line between proportional and disproportionate. I'm very curious about that. I would also like to get a response to the issue of the supervisor. There is no one to check; there is also a reaction to this. At the moment, economic operators are able to appeal to the Commission of Procurement Experts against those disproportionate requirements, but as contracting authorities have so many selective possibilities to exclude certain economic operators, there is a high risk that the complainant is no longer eligible for contracts. I would also like a response from the Minister. The PVV considers this an undesirable development and wants to limit the selection possibilities for contracting authorities. Our main objection is the new possibility for contracting authorities to reserve contracts to companies employing at least 30% of the disadvantaged. In doing so, contracting authorities may themselves decide which groups are to be defined as "disadvantaged." What does the Minister mean by "guns"? I would also like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u74	If Members wish to consult each other, would they be willing to do so outside the Chamber? Proceed, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u75	We believe that this will further restrict competition. I also like to get a reaction to this. Representatives of various business organisations have informed us in recent weeks and months that this will further restrict competition. I would also like to have a reaction to this. The PVV considers it undesirable for entrepreneurs to be burdened with such quotas. In my opinion, the Minister used to be, as a Member of Parliament, always against quotas and that sort of thing, but perhaps I am mistaken. Why does the Minister choose those quotas and the disadvantaged quota? We have another solution to this. We have simply said that we do not want cuts in social workshops, no re-examinations and no discounts on the WSWs. So we have other solutions to it, but we do not want to do it this way. We do not want entrepreneurs to suffer from this. The requirement for a label is another possibility to exclude certain entrepreneurs. This will particularly affect smaller SMEs, as the cost of such a mark can be significantly increased. Apparently, they can get really heavy. Now, of course, there is nothing wrong with a label in itself. The curious thing is this: even if a label is required, tenderers must always have the opportunity to circumvent it. This raises the question of why you would first cost entrepreneurs to obtain such a label, if it can then be bypassed. What, then, is the Minister's view of the usefulness of such a mark? I'll come to a conclusion. The PVV considers the bill a step in the wrong direction. That is quite clear; I have been working on it all the time. Contracting authorities will be given even more scope to tailor procurement contracts on the basis of arbitrary and subjective requirements. In our view, this legislative proposal is a real deterioration in the current procurement practice. That is unacceptable as far as PVV is concerned. Fortunately, many experts are behind us in this respect. We are not just saying this, no, we have also listened carefully to experts and to entrepreneurs. I hope the Minister will do the same. In any case, I will advise the group to vote against this law. Finally, I have a brief question for the Minister. I said once: we should give much more to our own people and businesses. Nationalism is very often portrayed negatively by German national socialism, but you can be a little patriot and you can grant your own companies a little more. Some countries do, too. Let me give you the example of the Minis; I mentioned Mr Van der Leegte earlier. I can mention that name, which saved those factories and therefore thousands of jobs at Nedcar in Born. I have sometimes asked: go and see how we can use these mini's "born in Born" they are made in Born, which is located on the border of South and Central Limburg as a public car. That motion didn't make it; I'll be honest with you. Nevertheless, I appeal to the Minister to look at how we can repay those who helped us at that time. That is very good for our economy and our employment. Possibly work there immediately instead of 3,000 to 4,000 people up to 7,000 to 8,000 people. It's okay to say it's your own Minis first. I'd like to end with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-10.u76	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
