ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u1	I welcome all the spokesmen, as well as our Secretary of State and all interested parties. We're gonna start soon. We agreed on a four-minute speaking time and I ask Members to do the interruptions in two. I call Mrs Volp from the PvdA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr. Chairman. If you're faced with the decision to have your loved one, your father or your mother admitted to a nursing home, the last thing you need to do is ask what list that nursing home is on. There should be no doubt about the quality of care. The decision, the big change in one's life and his environment are difficult enough. Whether you don't have your wife at home but can visit her twice a day, or leave your mother in the care of others: you need to know that she's safe and in good hands. You should know there's eye and time for her needs. You should know that nurtures are lovingly helping her, seeing her as a human being and helping her where necessary, but with a sense of business. You should know that if those caregivers need help, they can report it to their managers and their drivers and that that driver knows what care is being given by those in his home and when that does not go well. This investigation would not have been possible if the Secretary of State had not been working on his action plan. We are also standing here as a Chamber because we specifically asked for this. We now know which institutions are concerned, which institutions are concerned. The question is, however, what exactly do these 11, 38, 82, 150 institutions mean? What are the statements made by the inspection on this matter and the concerns it expresses? What is the inspection going to do to remove our concerns and, more importantly, to ensure that these institutions are no longer on a list that people who see the news are worried about? The inspection briefly mentions three main issues: the driver, the expertise and the question of care. Let me start with the first point. In 40% of the cases, the driver doesn't even know what's going on in his house. I have looked at a job profile for a driver and it states that he is ultimately responsible for the direction, positioning and quantitative and qualitative care results, as well as looking for new opportunities and opportunities on the market to put the house on the agenda and so on. Of course, that's beautiful, but it doesn't say that a driver needs to know who lives and works in his house and what those clients and caregivers, the people at the bed, can and need. There are examples of drivers who do want to know and who are admitted as patients for 24 hours to feel, smell and taste exactly how that is. Of course, that's easy, because you can get out after 24 hours, but it then encourages you to make sure that the people who live and work in your house can do what they have to do and get the care they need. I want every caretaker to have burned the quality picture, as so euphemistically called by the inspection, on his retina and to know which people live and work in his home, because there lies the basis of care in the home. That concern must therefore automatically be good. A second concern of the inspection is the expertise of healthcare professionals. The Secretary of State has invested in this, but how do we ensure that this money is actually used properly? That's only possible if the driver knows what choices to make. To find out, he will have to ask the people in his house what they need to be able to live there and take care of the people who live there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u3	I would ask you to conclude in this way, but Mrs Leijten would like to ask you a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u4	There are many drivers in this country who really have a very important responsibility, namely the care of people in their final stages of life and the care of the staff that takes care of those people. Not all institutions have yet been examined, but one third of the 150 institutions examined are concerned. What does the PvdA say about these drivers? Can they stay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u5	I was just saying that I think drivers need to know what the worries in their homes are about and that they need to pick them up immediately. They need to talk to the people who provide the care and the people who get the care, and then they need to act. That's what I want. They should have done that right away, because they should have done that a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u6	There are some administrators in this country who even find an invitation from the Lower House too negative and who do not come to a hearing. That institution is on the list. The list shows that there are concerns about the quality and safety of the whole institution; this is true for several locations. Can those drivers stay? We want all kinds of things, but that's not the point today. Mrs. Volp has responded strongly in the media. She indicated that she was shocked and that she was very sorry, and she wants things to be done. The stairs need to be wiped clean from above. Does Mrs Volp think that the directors of this institution, Espria, can remain seated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u7	I share Mrs Leijten's concerns. The people responsible for those homes and for the people who live and work there must ensure that those people can do whatever is necessary to provide the necessary care. As far as I am concerned, this list offers those drivers a very last chance to do so. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State how we can ensure that those drivers actually do so now. I'm talking in particular about the elf who are really dangling at the bottom right now. How do we make sure those drivers know there's no way to get out of it? We need the Secretary of State to urge them to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u8	Mrs Volp said that the drivers on the list will have a very last chance. What does the PvdA mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u9	Mrs Bergkamp also saw that the Secretary of State, with the intervention team, did not offer them a very last chance, but forced them to a very last chance. They have to accept them, and they have to help with that. There is also the possibility of getting help and assistance. A number of health care institutions already make use of this. I believe that the inspection should also be asked what is needed to remove the concerns about these 38 institutions. We must also ask the Secretary of State how he sees it and how we can force the directors of those 38 institutions that are still in doubt to do what is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u10	Mrs Volp says that drivers should be supported and forced to improve. I share that completely, but there has also been a lot of discussion around the lists. Eight of the eleven institutions have said that they do not recognize themselves in this. I also spoke to people today who said: my mother is in such a nursing home, but I am very satisfied with that. Does Mrs Volp also think it is important to take a critical look at what an inspection should check for? In fact, I am also talking about the way in which we, as a Chamber, look at the inspection. Hasn't it become a bit of a tick-off list by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u11	I share Mrs Bergkamp's concern that we need to know exactly what we know. That is why we are having this debate now. On the other hand, that list has now come out and it gives cause for concern. If these institutions do not recognise themselves in this, they must also be able to show why they do not recognize themselves in this and what they do well. The Secretary of State is also working on a monitoring framework based on the quality standard. Those are all great ways to check this out, but in the end I want one list of 2,000 nursing homes that deliver sufficient quality. Care must be in order. Whether nursing homes recognize themselves in the picture or not, care must be in order! I really want to make that clear. I'll finish soon. A third point of the inspection was the supply and weight of care and the expertise and employability of staff. I can tell you what I said earlier: if you don't know what needs to be cared for in your home, who needs to be cared for and what they need, then you're never going to pick up that last point of inspection. I'm rounding up. People need to be able to rest. There must be a list of 2,000 healthcare institutions providing good care. We should not have that clarity now, preferably yesterday, but at least after the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u12	Mr. Chairman. Friday I talked to Debbie, a nice young girl of 25 years. She works at my nursing home around the corner. When asked if she liked the work, she said: "They're happy that I'm here, but I'm only here once every two weeks. Actually, it saves my taxes. I'm not worried about the residents, because I don't really know them. I'm not sad when one dies, because I don't really know them." When asked whether that was pleasant for the residents, she replied: "I hear mainly from family members that they hate that there are different forces each time, but at the same time they also know that their family members are in bed for up to two hours if I don't come. So they're glad I'm here." Debbie wants to work at a permanent location and with a permanent population group, but then she cuts herself in the fingers, because then she can only work 12 hours a week. Now she has a flex contract with which she can work for 34 hours. That's what she needs to make ends meet. But it is heavy, she says: I come only to wash; I sometimes say that I work in a car wash. There was a lot of surprise, there were shocked reactions last Monday about the inspection report. Actually, I find that amazing. It is what the 150 institutions that have been following for a long time fail to provide good and safe care. The list is made on the basis of notifications, visits and emergencies; all kinds of information about an institution. But that's not all. The inspection also says in her report: "We are extra concerned, because the inspection sees that other institutions also have difficulty in maintaining the improvements that have been made. We get these signals through our risk analyses, reports of emergencies and visits to other nursing homes that are not part of the institutions in this report." So the problem is bigger. Frankly, I find it worrying that we now have a list that we know is not complete. I would like to talk today about structural measures, but first this. What good does it do to residents and employees when the Secretary of State says he's going to shut down institutions? Shouldn't it be different? Those intervention teams entering care institutions are a good first step. But if they take over the wheel, doesn't that mean the drivers have to get out? Doesn't that just mean a license of inability? What are we gonna do with those drivers? We would like a standard on overhead, a standard on minimum occupancy. The last one's still not here. There is a screaming shortage of staff: caregivers standing at night on 60 residents. Yeah, of course that's dangerous. Is that the health care provider's fault? No. Is that the fault of the residents? No. Is that the failure of directors and policy makers? Yes. There is a huge gap between what governance does and what politics does and what people feel in the workplace. Everything seems fine, but it's not. Staff fall out due to overload and will not be replaced. There are no good contracts. Residents are drugged when they're troublesome. I propose today, in addition to structural measures, that an emergency fund be set up: an emergency fund of 100 million for additional staff. How did that emergency fund get those extra employees? By staff who say: I have too few colleagues. They report to that emergency fund, which the Secretary of State is simply managing. That will arrange extra colleagues for those employees. At the same time, that's a huge whistleblower function. The employees who report there show that their driver doesn't listen to them, that the money doesn't go there to the workplace and to the problems. I'd like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks about that. One more thing. This Secretary of State would like the sector to improve itself. That is why he has a sort of vanguard group that sets a good example to those who are left behind. There's a thought behind that, and I understand that. But what I do not understand is that of the eleven institutions that are so much concerned about, there are no less than seven in the window as a good example. Will the Secretary of State ensure that directors do not get a stage to pretend that everything is right, while the staff and residents know that the institutions fail? That's exactly what makes everyone so cynical.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u13	Mr. Chairman. There is a lot of unrest due to a list of eleven nursing homes that are subject to intensive follow-up supervision, eight of which have already given a response today in which they have indicated that they do not recognise themselves in the conclusions of the inspection. They argue, among other things, that the report is based on outdated data. What the hell's wrong with communication? Why, for example, was no update sent? What exactly is the bar of inspection? Mrs Leijten has just made it very clear what the inspection is looking at. I also spoke to nursing homes who say they were visited once by the inspection at their own request or not at all. I wonder how you can come to a judgment without actually being on the spot to talk to clients and employees. My question to the Secretary of State is what this bar is now and to clarify what the inspection is and is not looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u14	We can see that care institutions are freaked out, and I can understand that. If you are in the newspaper by name because after one and a half years of inspection supervision and collecting all kinds of information you get a serious qualification, that is not good. What does Mrs Bergkamp say about the fact that there are many health care institutions that have directors in some sort of prime location, without ever seeing a resident or a staff member? How does she feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u15	Ultimately, of course, it is about the quality of care. What I wanted to say in my speech is that there is a discussion about this. That's not good. This means more unrest for employees and also for clients and their loved ones. I just don't like that. Mrs Leijten asks what I think of the inspection conclusion that a very large percentage of drivers do not know what is happening in the workplace. Of course, I don't like that at all. I think that's a very bad sign. In my contribution, I also ask how this can be done. How is it that as a driver you don't remember what's going on, that you deal with real estate and mergers and that there are changes of management? I certainly have concerns about that, as do Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u16	The inspection often takes action at location level. Then you hear in such a large care institution: they should come to us, then they would see the same thing. Now the inspection does what is actually the call from such an institution, which is to look at the whole institution if you can't manage one location properly, that also says something about the rest of the organisation... and now the institutions are angry. Isn't it just right that the inspection should send this signal now? I would like to see the confusion that is now being sown by the institutions as a sign that they can respond very well to current events. They have to do this in their institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u17	I am also in favour of transparency. I think that's very good. I also think it is very good that the organisation is being looked at instead of by location. So we have the same opinion on that. I'll share that. I'm okay with that. That's also something we asked for as a room. I see that one third of the 150 institutions that have already been researched have been investigated. I believe that Mrs Leijten has said that even though this is, of course, also a tip of the iceberg. Of course, there may be many more institutions where there are also problems now. That worries me. It's new that the Secretary of State chooses naming-and-shaming. Such a list is violent, for the people who work there and for clients who live there and their loved ones. I think it's important to have said that. As painful as that may be, transparency is important. From now on, I will say to the Secretary of State, but rather in an organized manner, in the right context. Careful over speed. How did this process go? Settings were robbed, had to call the inspection, got an answering machine, got different e-mails and had to inform people. That's not the process we want together, is it? It was panic football. I don't have any other explanation. In addition, the way in which we as a Chamber deal with such a list is also important. Equal call calls for poor performing nursing homes to close, causes unrest and uncertainty. I really think that's a loss scenario, no more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u18	I think "panic football" is quite a harsh term. We're dealing with 150 houses that were already worried about. They are subject to a very clear route of inspection monitoring. They can't feel mugged. So I do not understand why Mrs Bergkamp is now going along with this movement, saying that they do not recognize herself in it. This is a process they've been working on for the past year and a half, so they can't have been mugged by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u19	I thank Mrs Volp for this question, because I can explain it to her. Is she aware of what happened this week? I sometimes have the feeling that sometimes the PvdA is a little further away from the practice, but what happened this week? Institutions have been told this week that the report has to go to the Chamber because the Chamber wants transparency. I don't know where the formal decision was taken, but apparently the Secretary of State felt something that made him think: I'm going to send the report to the Chamber. Normally the inspection and care settings can always respond to the versions. Now they got an e-mail, where there were a lot of mistakes, they had to call and they got an answering machine. That's not organized, is it? If a report comes out, you should also have the opportunity to inform your people and clients. I think that's good governance, too. That doesn't affect the good work of the inspection. And that care institutions have to anticipate that when it comes to quality, I fully share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u20	Firstly, I would like to distance myself from the point of view that we are further away from practice. When this report came out, I was running consulting hours. So how close do you want to be to the practice? Secondly, this is a route in which the institutions on this list are subject to this monitoring rather intensively by the inspection. So again, there's no robbery. If that is the case, it is because there was a specific question from the Chamber to make the list public. That's what the inspection did, but I really can't believe they were mugged because they were on that list. I therefore believe that Mrs Bergkamp is not handling this properly, given how carefully the inspection has dealt with the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u21	I have no criticism whatsoever of the fact that there has been research and that 'the current situation' is until mid-March. I would like to state the following in my speech. If you say "A" on day, I think Monday was Monday, when the reports go out, you should also give institutions the opportunity to ensure good internal communication. There's so many clients up and down. Just take a look at my mailbox and the calls. Apart from the good work of the inspection, this indicates that this includes a careful process, without panic football. It just has to be organized. That question was also put to the Secretary of State. And again, I am in favour of transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u22	I am pleased with that last sentence, because I started to think for a moment that the problem for D66 was mainly that now lies on the street that some institutions are not working properly. I am therefore pleased that there is no doubt about this transparency for D66. That is how I know D66 again, but I do now wonder what Mrs Bergkamp's anger is really about. Does it focus on the fact that a number of institutions feel that they are being treated unfairly? Could Mrs Bergkamp's anger not focus better on the poor quality and the people who suffer from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u23	I don't feel any anger. I've asked a number of questions to the Secretary of State. I'm worried about the list and what's on it. Absolutely. That's got to be the focus. But if your mailbox is full and your phone is red-hot by concerned clients....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After all, we have also supported the SP motion on transparency, so we are all in favour of that, but then there is my question as to whether it can take place more organisedly in order to avoid this kind of thing. And if institutions don't recognize themselves in it, the question is where it goes wrong at some point. That's a question, too. How's that communication?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u24	When information comes out about someone's functioning that is not positive, I can imagine that it is rare for him to say: that is absolutely correct; indeed, I do function badly. So I think it is understandable that care institutions react very critically to this. I don't think anything goes wrong there. The problem is that that leads to criticism and unrest, but I prefer that people do that on the basis of information than... well, on what basis? It is a tough measure and, yes, the report was accompanied by strong language, but I would rather have hard information just lying on the street than that information is not there, because then there is nothing we can do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u25	Of course that information has to come out. I made the point of providing transparency in an organised manner, so that there is no panic. There are also institutions that say that during the period April/May they have been told that they meet all standards. I think that's worth knowing about, too. We have to start from the facts; that's how I know GroenLinks. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether it is right for a number of institutions to indicate this or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u26	I would like to continue on the issue of the organisation of transparency. I note that D66 has a major role to play in the inspection, but is there not also a role for the institutions themselves to be transparent about the quality of their care and the inspection reports? We are now focusing very strongly on the task of inspection, but there is another party that certainly also has a responsibility. How does D66 feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u27	I fully agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. The process went as it went this week, but my question to the Secretary of State is as follows: how can we make the institutions more proactive in dealing with the inspection reports again, taking-and-shaming is new; everyone still needs to get used to it a little bit more in order to prevent employees and clients from getting into some sort of panic situation? I can't imagine Mrs Dik-Faber doesn't want that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u28	I will also deal with this in my own contribution. I must say that the term "naming-and-shaming" is always mentioned. Although it will undoubtedly not be so, I think it is a disqualification of institutions that are trying to improve things that are not going well. There are institutions that do not function properly over and over again, but there are also institutions that try to do better. Let us also do justice to this in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u29	That was my plea, too. It is very important to look at what the information is now and how we can improve it with each other. If we can make that happen tonight, it's definitely gonna be a profit. I will continue my speech. Of course the quality has to go up, and quickly. As far as D66 is concerned, tonight's debate is about that. Let us look at the causes and what we can do, each on its own responsibility. Last night, the chairman of Humanitas' board of directors was at Nieuwsuur. I think it's nice that he dared, but his message wasn't very uplifting. The occupation of the night shift was often insufficient, medication safety was at stake and freedom-limiting measures were imposed without the intervention of a doctor. That was also the criticism of the inspection towards other nursing homes. If we don't solve that, of course we won't get anywhere. D66 considers it important that there is sufficient qualified staff. That's the only way we can deal with the problem. We must, of course, also realise that nursing homes are increasingly confronted with complex issues. People stay home longer and then end up in the nursing home. You can almost say that a nursing home has to provide a form of hospital care. You can see that not all institutions can cope with the speed of change, especially in the big cities. Does the Secretary of State also see that the problems in the major cities are the greatest? Shouldn't there be a specific approach? I refer here to the Amsterdam approach. D66 wants an action plan for staff. We also want specific consideration to be given to the cause of differences in quality between nursing homes. The culture in the nursing home is also important. I will be brief, because this point was also raised in the interrupting debate with the SP spokesperson. How is it that 40% of drivers don't know what's going on in the workplace? I find that unacceptable. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u30	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u31	I'm definitely gonna do that. I'm getting to the last part. The quality of nursing homes is, of course, not new. What's new is that the improvements that have been started don't last. For ten years now, the inspection has been warning that it is going in the wrong direction. I would like to stress this evening: deciding with each other how we can improve that, we will really solve something. I have made a number of suggestions for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u32	Mr. Chairman. On 18 November 2014, one and a half years ago, we talked here in the same room about the quality of nursing home care. I think everyone can also remember the reason for this debate: Mr Oude Nijhuis who called the bell about the failing care for his wife with dementia. Now, one and a half years later, we have a report from the inspection. 150 institutions were on the retina and have been fully vetted, with a worrying conclusion. I ask the Secretary of State, what has changed over the last year and a half? How can we prevent problems from being structural? That's what it's starting to look like. Let me point out in this debate that fortunately there is a lot going on in nursing care. Every day thousands of care workers work with heart and soul to provide people with good care in the last few years of their lives. Today, I would like to express my appreciation for their commitment, their concern and their commitment. At the same time, nursing care can also fail. The inspection report also puts a painful finger on that. I think we should be honest: no one looks forward to living in a nursing home, no matter how good the care is. It's a place you go when you need care and when things don't work out at home. But when the time comes, you have to be able to count on good care, that your father or your mother gets good care in a safe environment. I think that there is a great challenge for nursing home care to become more transparent: transparent to residents and employees, who need to be able to think along about quality of care, transparent to other institutions; that is buddying; that is to learn from each other; and transparent to society, to show that life in high age is not easy, but it is always worth taking care of. I therefore welcome the fact that inspection reports are made public, not because taking-and-shaming is an end in itself, but because it can help organisations to be transparent to residents, employees and fellow institutions, and above all to improve their quality. I see that many institutions really do. At the same time, it is worrying to read that there are also settings that do not report errors and that also do not use the errors to improve quality. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. What are we gonna do about it? If institutions themselves were more transparent about the quality of care, I think we would have had more in this debate than just the snapshot of the inspection report. For many years, care in nursing homes has become more complex. Staff training has not kept pace with this. It is seen as an important reason why the care in a number of places is below the mark. As of this year, the Secretary of State has allocated extra money to these training courses. Is that enough? When are we going to notice the results? What happened after my passed motion on coaching on the job? Finally, I note that the inspection report focuses on physical care. But just when you're vulnerable, other things may be just as important, or even more important. I mention personal attention, love and mental care. This also explains, in my view, the difference between the inspection report and the experience of residents. After all, what's it worth to get your meds on time if there's never any more attention for you? The only solution to this is a radically different vision of care. We need to go from the protocols and the check-in lists to the expertise of healthcare professionals and experienced quality of care. That is why my plea is: give back care to residents and their carers together with nurses and carers. Give them control over the care that is offered. Care is not of health insurers or of institutions but of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u33	Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, every day there are many people who receive good care in nursing homes. Fortunately, every day there are many people who are committed to this with heart and soul. And fortunately, there are many institutions that have the quality of care in order. It is certainly not my intention to place an entire sector on the scaffold, as I heard someone say. However, it is true that too many institutions still have too many mistakes. That is the reason for this debate. I understand that the reaction may be: here we go again, should we right now, stante pede have a debate? However, the broad support for this debate and tonight's tone show that there is broad support for a very good quality of care and that it is felt that our older people, who have contributed so much to the Netherlands in which we live, deserve no generous, decent care. It cannot be tolerated that a number of institutions are still making too much effort, despite repeated attempts through improvement programmes in recent times. We are, of course, thinking in particular of the eleven institutions which are unable to handle this concern and in which intensive follow-up monitoring is necessary. My question to the Secretary of State is: if he looks back on all these improvements and also looks at the institutions where they have gone well, what can he say about institutions that continue to perform below the standards? What are the failure factors? Or, more positively, what are the success factors of institutions that manage it well? How is it possible that some nursing homes provide high-quality care and retain money, while other nursing homes are in a bad way and need to nibble on well-trained staff? The role of directors has rightly been called for. There is a lot to say about these drivers, but very exciting is the question that is sometimes asked at a meeting of directors: would you really like to sit in your own nursing home if you need care? It is amazing to see how often this question is answered with "no." That should be a good criterion; so you should work for your own nursing home. There is rightly attention to the directors, but I would also like to highlight the role of supervisory boards and client councils. I read a little less about that in all the pieces. However, I believe that they should be very actively involved in institutions that have been given a particular improvement path. Are they also actively involved and informed by the IGZ and the NZa? Finally, I would like to say a word about transparency. There was a lot to do about the list that was published. I also see this as a kind of transitional amendment, as we have seen it in more sectors. I'm thinking about education, a lot of years ago. There was much more transparency in education then. It was simply said: this is wrong with those and those schools, it really needs to be better there. That's not funny at all, that's just as annoying and that gives us a swell, but in the end it helps everyone if there's transparency about what's wrong and what can be done better. In this sense, institutions are also forced to explain in greater detail how things are going in their institutions. In the end, after all the transitional problems, I only see that as a profit. You can criticize the criteria used, but as an institution you can answer for them yourself. I think the press releases we have seen today are a wonderful tasting, a beautiful mirror, of the governance culture in those institutions. Is it just a story that lags behind and is not on the board, or is there also the sober recognition that the institution is not on the list for nothing and that some things that were wrong have gone to work? Every time a report becomes transparent, let the press release and the way it is put out be a mirror of the culture of such an institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u34	Mr. Chairman. I can imagine a lot of people have been freaked out in the last few days. Well, at least I do. The report presented on Monday by the Health Inspectorate makes people afraid and insecure. It will happen to you: you are talking to your father or mother about the question of which nursing home he or she is going to go to and you do not know if that nursing home is safe. That is a reason for great uncertainty. In any case, the disclosure of the list of nursing homes where it should be improved removes some of that uncertainty. We now have names and numbers. It certainly does not take away the fear of residents and family members who do not know whether the nursing home where they stay is inadequate. That makes me angry. That actually makes me very angry. That fear shouldn't be necessary. There are also very good nursing homes in the Netherlands. They comply with the same laws and rules and are financed in the same way as the nursing homes where things are bad now. So it's possible! Good, loving, but above all safe care for your father or mother should not be an impossible task for a nursing home, especially in the Netherlands. Drivers of institutions that are not doing well have to ask themselves whether they are on the right track, especially when other institutions have things in order: satisfied clients, enthusiastic staff and safety in order, as it should be. Then you have to ask yourself the question: what am I doing wrong? Why can't we do it there? Why can't we do it with me? I think we should stand for those who need care most: vulnerable elderly people, our own fathers, mothers, grandparents and grandmothers. They are the ones who are burdened with problems, while drivers with insufficient attention to client, family and staff can just go home at the end of the day. I want the Secretary of State to promise that by the end of the summer at least safety in the weak nursing homes will be in order, that we will be sure that the right pill will be placed on the bedside table. It's the worst nightmare if you're not sure if your father or mother is getting the right medication. I would also like the Secretary of State to make a commitment that institutions where security is not organised should be closed down. Let it be clear, it is not about the people in the institution, but about the drivers who are unable to provide good care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u35	I agree with the argument that the quality of nursing homes should be raised. We do not disagree on this. I'd like to talk about this week's trial. What does the VVD think about the fact that eleven institutions were told yesterday that they fell into the most worrying category, although they themselves have the impression that they are discussing improvements with the inspection? I do not think it would be pleasant for the people who work there and the patients who stay there to hear yesterday that their institution falls into the most worrying category. I know the VVD as an advocate of good governance. How does the VVD feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u36	I am particularly sorry for the people sitting there. I am very sorry for the family members who are told that their father or mother is in an institution that cannot have medication safety in order. That really scared the shit out of me. That shouldn't be possible! We have been working for one and a half to two years to get the care in order. Institutions on the list have known for a long time that it is not in order. I understand that it is very annoying, and Mr Van der Staaij also gave it to... but I also do not want to see crocodile tears. I also want directors to be aware of their responsibilities and say that it may indeed not be good in my institution, some are brave enough to admit it, and I am going to do my stinking best to ensure that at least safety is in order. It doesn't fit to look at yourself and say that you're so pathetic and that it's so bad to be on that list. I think you should think: I'm going to make sure that the patients in my organisation get enough safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u37	I think you'll be failing the sector. As I said at the beginning of my interruption, there is no discussion about the need to raise quality. If the quality is below the mark, it has to go up very quickly. My question is that it is strange that institutions were heard yesterday, although they themselves felt that they were discussing improvements with the inspection, that they fell into the most worrying category. I am not talking about the institutions, but about the people who work there. They got mugged, too. We're talking about the people who live there and the people who love them. You can't rob him like that, can you? It's really bad for the people who work there and who are there, isn't it? Couldn't we have done the same thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u38	Yeah, but I'm not the inspection either. As far as I am concerned, they could have made that list public in March or April. Then it would've been clear right away. Mrs Bergkamp can ask me that question, but I am concerned that at least now people know where they stand. The list was established by the inspection. In any case, there are 11 who are really below the mark, and 38 who are questioning. I am pleased that we have this transparency. I do not mind that a shock has now been caused in the care of the elderly, which means that people say: hey, we can't just keep covering things like this; we really need to operate and act. In that sense, I don't have much problem with that. Whether that list could not have been released earlier is a fair question, but it should not have been asked to me by Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u39	That that list should have come out sooner, the Chamber has ruled. When we heard from the Secretary of State in 2014 that there were 150 institutions that went in a long way, we asked for that openness. It did not come because the Secretary of State wanted to give all these institutions the opportunity to improve. Well, the outcome is a third doesn't make it. That's shocking enough; let's talk about that in particular. I have a question about the drivers. The VVD sails sharply to the wind. He says: by the end of the summer it must be good, otherwise we close the tent. By this, the VVD does not mean that the residents should be moved, but that the administration should be removed. That's how I translate it. How exactly is the Secretary of State supposed to do that? I think I see a nice motion from the SP and the VVD coming up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u40	I think that Mrs Leijten and I are opposed to each other in many debates, but not in this respect. I think drivers should just function. If they don't work, they're gonna have to take care of themselves as soon as possible, especially in the care of the elderly. If it turns out that they do not have it in order after repeated instructions from the Secretary of State, then the Secretary of State may simply give me an indication and say that the board should be replaced. Well, then someone else better come and do it. It can't be that medication safety in the elderly isn't in order and we're gonna let the drivers sit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u41	I fully agree with that. Let us then prick a new date for inspection at the end of the summer. Then the inspection can take the third part in which it is now worrying, so categories 1 and 2. In September we will hear which drivers are no longer welcome in the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u42	I think this is a repeat of moves. I ask the Secretary of State to respond to the questions I have asked, but it seems very clear to me: if drivers are not functioning and safety is not in order, they are not in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u43	I have also heard that this is now linked to a date after the summer, and that the VVD also supports it. So that's gonna be exciting in a couple of months. I think part of the quality has to do with a tight budget, but not everything. For example, look at the directors' salaries. Of the administrators of institutions who are now in a poor state, nineteen are among the top 50 most earning drivers. I actually thought that was a shocking conclusion. How does Mr Potters feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u44	I'm giving you a reflection of how I think you deal with something like care. If you work in care, you do it for the people who are there. It's not about making as much money as possible in health care. You can earn a living in the care; Mrs Voortman will agree with me. Whether someone earns much or little, in itself doesn't have to say anything about the quality, but someone always has to account for his own behavior. We have also seen cases of fraud in the care sector in recent times, of people who are really taking a hold of the cash. We need to be very clear about this: it really does not suit a caregiver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u45	It is said that it also has to do with tight financial frameworks. That is partly the case, I think, because this cabinet has also cut back on care for the elderly. But does Mr Potters think that we should also take a critical look at drivers' salaries? Does he also think that, for example, the Top Income Standards Act could really be a little sharper?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u46	I want to have the debate for the people who are looking at this and are worried about care for the elderly. We have had enough of the debate on the Top Income Standards Act. It is now about how we can ensure that safety in care for the elderly is really in order. I am angry about that, and I think that the Chamber should take steps in this regard. I also think that, in extreme cases, if physical safety is not in order, perhaps a location should be closed. After all, we cannot take any risk with the safety of care for the elderly. Once again, I say: in the extreme. Blundering drivers must not lead us to drag vulnerable elderly people. Let us be clear: if we are going to close down institutions, as far as I am concerned, the drivers can leave and the elderly can just sit. Finally, I would ask the Secretary of State to explain, step by step, what needs to be done to get safety in the nursing homes in order quickly. What is the role of the inspection in this? More specifically, what is the State Secretary's own competence? How do they interact and how do we ensure that the inspection also assumes its responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u47	I heard Mr Potters say very quickly in the media that nursing homes should be closed if they do not comply with the standard. Now I hear a nuance in Mr Potters' story. He now says that they should be closed in the extreme, if physical safety is at stake. Where does this nuance suddenly come from? In the media, Mr Potters said something quite different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u48	I think Mrs Bergkamp has followed only part of the media. I told you yesterday, and I think I did it on Radio 1 too, which must be clear that we are not going to drag older people when we are closing down sites. If it is necessary to physically close locations because they are unsafe, then so should we, even if that is a very difficult decision. It is about ensuring safety and that management, if it cannot guarantee safety, simply has to leave. New people can then come and the inspection can be monitored more closely so that care and safety can be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u49	Of course, Mr Potters is talking about his own words in the Chamber and in the media, but I note that the statement in the media 'then they must be closed' causes a lot of unrest. The VVD was part of seven of the last eight cabinets. So it is not that easy to improve the quality of nursing homes. Mr Potters is now very strongly opposed to the Secretary of State in his statements, but I think that the VVD and Mr Potters should also know that it is very difficult. What explanation does Mr Potters give from the VVD for the fact that it has been so difficult for the past Cabinets to raise the quality of nursing homes? What's that all about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u50	It may be a little weird, but I don't need to play a political game with each other right now. Two or three years ago, the Chamber and the Secretary of State said to each other: we really need to get the quality of care for the elderly in order, because we see things that are simply not good. We have now inspected 150 of them. 38 are supervised and 11 aren't doing well. I think we should take steps now too. A number of things are simply unacceptable. The Secretary of State also said this, even last Monday, in very firm terms. I'm glad, because we really can't trivialize this. I think we should go through with it now. This has nothing to do with seven or eight previous Cabinets, which simply has to do with the responsibility we have as a Chamber to really put the quality of care in order for the elderly. I got mad about that. I hope that anger leads to action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u51	Mr Potters speaks very clearly. He wants action and he wants results. At the same time, I note that we need not be alarmed. Every few years we get a similar comparative examination from the inspection and every time it says the same thing. Every few years the conclusion is the same: in nursing care there is not enough staff and not enough skilled staff. Mr Potters may now ask for action, but Mr Potters needs something quite different: money, pecunia, money-money-money, cloth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u52	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u53	When will the money come through, Mr Potters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u54	I was prepared for the debate to be about money again. I think we have two things in common. We both saw a lot of nursing homes during our many work visits. We have seen incredibly good examples, which we are probably both proud of and which we say should be so! Mrs Agema knows as well as I do that this has nothing to do with more money for one institution and less money for another. We see passionate drivers who, with little overhead, can enable good people to provide good care. That's what we want. What we should not do is to say that it would be the easiest way to do it, so that the bad nursing homes would score better. That is not the case, Mrs Agema. What we have to do is tackle bad management hard. That is something we must dare to do, and I think we can agree with each other. We have to get the rotten apples out. We must also say: this is unacceptable, here we draw the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u55	This is just a bullshit story from Mr Potters. He's putting on big pants. He's making a big mouth. Action must come! Since 2004, we've known it's not good. The 2008 report states that only 4% of nursing homes have the staff in order. So, Mr. Potters, your story, your mantra, has just been sucked out of control. 96% isn't doing well. 96% do not have the staff in order at all. So the mantra "there are enough institutions that do well with the same amount of money" is just bullshit. It's a bullshit story. You're gonna have to come up with some money. 70% of the cost of care for the elderly goes on salaries! And if there are no salaries, there will be no extra hands on the bed. So I ask the VVD again for butter with the fish. Where's the money?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u56	I had genuinely hoped that we would use this debate to take a step forward in the quality of care for the elderly. I'm really freaked out. And I'm angry, too. I really share a part of Mrs. Agema's anger. But let us not just have a debate here about who has been right before and who thinks that more or less money should be added. We must now ensure that the institutions which are not functioning properly are closed if necessary. We must set a hard line so that our elders, the people who matter, do not have to be afraid in the institution where they are. Finally, I would ask the Secretary of State to explain specifically, step by step, what his role and the role of the inspection are. I would like to conclude by saying that I believe that security must be in order before the end of the summer. I hope that at least we have been sufficiently alarmed by the inspection report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u57	I think Mr Potters has a point. It is indeed partly up to the institutions themselves. But Mrs Agema, of course, has a point at the same time, because it is not just about that. There is also a relationship with the financial side of the matter. As more people stay at home, the people who call on care in the institutions have a greater demand for care. Those are people who are also costing more money to care. If you add and extramuralise this in your financial frameworks at the same time, it will, of course, lead to tighter financial frameworks. I would therefore like to hear from Mr Potters that he recognizes a little that the cabinet policy of recent years has also played a role in this. I'd say that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u58	I have also said that there are very good examples of where things can be done. I am truly amazed at the differences. How can the differences be so great? Because the differences are really big. We have seen some very good examples of institutions that provide very good care with the same budget. That may also be said here, because otherwise the whole sector would think that we think badly about care for the elderly, and that is not true. There are also good examples. I'm going to present one figure anyway. We spend three times as much on care for the elderly as Germany when you look at our gross domestic product. That's just a figure. And then we still do not manage to secure with each other a certain lower limit, a certain hard standard that old people care should at least meet, so that our fathers and mothers and grandpas and grandmothers do not have to worry about it. I want us to focus our energy on that right now. We can start a debate on money, but I think we do it here every week. That's not gonna make these rotten apples go out and we're gonna set a really hard limit to what we think is acceptable and what isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u59	I already indicated that one institution is not the other. I fully agree with Mr Potters. I'm also saying it's not that black and white. But the recognition that government policy is at least partly related to this would make sense, wouldn't it? The fact that people who work there, see their colleagues disappear and that the workload is increasing is partly due to a choice made by the providers, but also partly to the increasingly tight financial frameworks, partly caused by this cabinet, which is supported by the VVD. A little recognition would adorn the VVD anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u60	I'm really not gonna be a part of this blame game. The point is that we are now taking steps to deal with this poor concern. Mrs Voortman may find this, but I simply see some very good examples of institutions that are capable of doing so. If that becomes the norm, then I do not understand why we still have institutions that still do not have the medicine safety in order. That there are differences, I accept, but there is a certain limit and we draw that line here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u61	As a committee, we visited Germany because every time it was said that Germany only lost one third of the cost of care for the elderly. And do you know what happened? In Germany they said: you came to us; you arranged it much better. In Germany, the government pays a third of the costs. Two-thirds have to pay the family themselves. What the family pays itself is not mapped at all. In Germany we have no idea at all about the total costs, and we know exactly what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u62	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u63	We know exactly how much the government is contributing. That's 90%. 10% pay the people themselves. That's the difference. I would have liked to have noticed that, because the fable that it is cheaper in Germany has been pierced. The VVD shouldn't bring back that fable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u64	I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u65	I have something to add to this myth. The Germans take their parents to the East Block or bring East Blockers into their homes to take care of their parents. And that does not seem to me to be the VVD's proposal for our care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u66	No, that's certainly not our proposal. My observation is that when we look around Europe, we spend a lot of money on care for the elderly. That's okay at all. That is good, because we think it is important that we take good care of our older people. We have one of the highest rates of expenditure. And then it cannot be the case that a certain lower limit is exceeded and that poorly scored institutions can continue. I think we should just draw the line there. I can discuss the numbers with Mrs Agema. I have the 2014 figures here. We can do that again in another debate, but I am concerned that we dare to name where the lower limit is. We have done this well in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u67	Mr Potters has still not read my book. In it all sources are neatly mentioned. In addition, some EUR 10 billion has been spent on elderly care in order to look more like the countries around us. And what does it turn out to be? In the meantime, our GDP rate of care has fallen from 12.1, according to the countries around us, to 9.9. We've become the cheapest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u68	No, I don't have much to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u69	Madam President. Moving to a nursing home is a major event for the person himself and for his or her loved ones. At that time, you must be able to fully trust that the care offered is safe, worthy and good. Of course, there are differences between nursing homes, after all, it is human work, but you must be able to rely on safe, dignified and good care. This evening, we are discussing a list of 15 March 2016, according to the letter from the Secretary of State for this evening. The data are therefore not up-to-date, but this does not alter the fact that care in too many nursing homes is not optimal. The care provided there was and is not adequate for a variety of reasons. Your lover, your loved one, will only live in a nursing home like that. That is why we are having this debate tonight, because rapid action is needed. Words are not enough today, further steps are required. The list is now public and justified. Don't you have a right to know what the situation is in an institution where you stay yourself or a loved one? But we would like the list per location and more topical. Many followed institutions are not yet fully trusted by the inspection. No less than 11 nursing homes questioned whether they could make the necessary improvements in March 2016. It is now clear why some institutions did not recognize themselves in the picture. Can the Secretary of State provide the Chamber with a more up-to-date list in the short term? Two cases concerned 50PLUS in particular. The first is that medication safety turns out to be a little out of order. However, it is very crucial, because it directly affects the personal safety of the residents. It just can't be that this is going so badly on such a large scale. The second thing that concerns us is that staff are often not sufficiently trained to cope with the complex need for care. I thought it was known that the care gravity would increase in nursing homes. There should have been a high level of training and training for current workers. Why did the Secretary of State let this go like this? Does he understand that all the conditions in the care, whether they are the Wmo, the pgb issue or the nursing home care, may completely deter new care workers from choosing care for the elderly and drives existing staff to despair? There's no campaign against that. When has the Secretary of State actually been informed for the first time about the serious situation in a number of nursing homes, as was already known at the inspection on 15 March, just not yet organized and explained? Is the Secretary of State satisfied with the action of the inspection? Now the Secretary of State comes with intervention teams, but what are the powers of such a team? Can I see it as some kind of curator coming in, really taking over the case and making improvements in two months? Have teams already been formed and, if so, are they already working? I would like to hear a response, because this point is very important for 50PLUS. The employees in care do their work with heart and soul, despite the limited resources they have. We've received many heartbreaking messages from them. I'll finish with a call. Let's not just talk here for too long. Get the Secretary of State to come forward with up-to-date information as soon as possible. Let the intervention teams get started and make the care safe, dignified and well in all nursing homes in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u70	Mr. Chairman. The whole field is awake with one stone. Under pressure from publicising the names of institutions that are concerned about the quality of care, the debate on the quality of care in nursing homes has flared up again. I thought the tone of the Secretary of State's press release was pretty tough, and it has to be, because it's not just about anything. There is indeed no room for rotten apples in the care. It is right that poor-performing institutions should be addressed and publicly accountable. That makes sense, not only in view of the people who need care, but also in view of the health care institutions where things are going well and the care workers who are doing their stinking best every day. GroenLinks wants our elders to have the care they need. We also want caregivers to have the space to provide that kind of care. That's what should be central. The cuts in recent years and the threat of austerity in the coming period have not exactly helped improve care in nursing homes. At the care ribs of the FNV we have heard many stories about people who have seen colleagues disappear and the workload has increased. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet has deleted the next 500 million cut. GroenLinks hopes that this money will actually go to the sector and will actually end up with the people who can deliver the care. So it should not be in expensive programmes or in more drivers. Is the Secretary of State going to work on this? What role does he see for himself in this? It's not just a matter of money. I am really surprised how many drivers of the worst performing institutions are also included in the list of most earning drivers. I count among the administrators of institutions on the inspection list about nineteen drivers who are in the top 50 of the most deserving care drivers. How is that possible? GroenLinks thinks this is a good first step, but we would like more insight into the background of worse performing institutions. What determines whether an institution can offer good quality? Is it the institutions with a poor financial position that perform worse, or is it the institutions with a high or low level of governance, or with many layers of management? What about the size and number of locations? I would like more clarity from the Secretary of State on this, because then the figures will also say more. As far as we are concerned, people need much more insight into the quality of care, also by location of a nursing home. There must also be much more attention to what people themselves experience as quality. In fact, that is much more important than whether a particular protocol is in the right place. Is this now also included in the information the Secretary of State wants to make public on institutions as of 1 January 2017? The direction must also be much more direct than it is now for the people themselves and they must be able to choose the institution or the way in which they can get their care. How does the Secretary of State intend to work on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u71	Mr. Chairman. During the night of 18 to 19 November 2014, we also discussed the quality of nursing home care. Inspections and quality were also at the heart of this process. The Secretary of State came up with a state of affairs and plans: the quality of care for the elderly had to and would be increased. I'm afraid we're back here again. Since last Monday, the media are full of stories about quality in nursing homes. On Monday, an inspection report came to the Chamber with generally the same deficiencies observed as in 2014, two years ago. In the letter with which he sent the inspection report, the Secretary of State informed us that the situation in certain nursing homes was unacceptable for him, and I was quite impressed. But unfortunately today I read in the Algemeen Dagblad that it was all quite not so bad. Which one's right now? That's important for the people who have parents in a nursing home, and for the people who work there. The letter also contained a number of proposals to make things better. First of all, the Secretary of State wanted new plans. There were quite good ones, but no one will be surprised what I'm going to say. Now start with the rigorous and effective removal of all kinds of rules. If the 30% to 40% of the time a nurse spends on it, the seas of time and lots of money will be released to take care of it. Unfortunately, this morning's debate on this subject was not very encouraging: further research was announced. The Secretary of State's second proposal was to put basic care and safety in order. The inspection really doesn't just report on the eleven institutions that score a category 1. The inspection describes how the research is carried out in practice. To pag. 20 states: "organisations take action and use quality improvements in a relatively short time. Then the attention drops due to problems in the organisation and does not manage to hold on to the improvements. This problem is not new, nor is it merely typical of the 150 nursing establishments that have been tested." A little further, it says: "Settings that continue to fall back on their improvement path have greater risks of unsafe care, because they do not have systematic solutions." The inspection concludes that the care authorities concerned have insufficient insight into the bottlenecks in the organisation. The good guys, of course, are not too much of a follower: I find this incredibly incomprehensible and incomprehensible. The quality of care for your residents, the job pleasure of your employees and good targeted training plans should you know in detail? How do basic care and safety come into structural and permanent order? That's the big question today. I am very curious to hear what the Secretary of State is going to say about this. Then there is the third point. The Secretary of State was going to intervene. Or maybe not. At least there'll be an intervention team. Another one. Should we not even go to a situation where residents, their families and people in the workplace are determining what needs to be done to improve care? The Secretary of State has long had all kinds of legal powers to intervene. He can give clues and turn them into his own intervention. He may designate a safety net foundation or other provider where crucial care is not guaranteed. He'll take over this care. Why has weeks, if not months ago, when we heard of this destructive inspection report not already grasped these legal possibilities? Writing it...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u72	Mrs. Keijzer, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u73	Because you said that, I've run out of time, but I've had a few seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u74	I was waiting for a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u75	Then I conclude by saying that only writing a press release does not convince us of intervention. I hope that after tonight we will have concrete proposals on how to improve and what the Secretary of State is going to do, should this not happen in the short term either. Tomorrow's recess. Then the summer begins. Actually, I think it should have been done by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u76	In the long time that we have this kind of debate, the CDA is always characterised by self-regulation. The institution can fix it on its own. This investigation has shown that it is not possible to do so. What does the CDA think of drivers who do not succeed, who apparently have no control, who do not know what the problems are, but who are still there? What are we gonna do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u77	What I just said: unbelievable and incomprehensible. After all, there are institutions where it can be done. The Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act, the Quality Act for Health Institutions, the Long-Term Care Act and the Market Organisation Health Act contain all kinds of tools that the State Secretary can actually intervene with. I have been standing here for four years and Mrs Leijten has been doing this much longer than I have; this is not a debate for the last year and a half. If an institution repeatedly fails to do what it has to do, namely to give good care to the people who live there, then the directors themselves will have to leave, otherwise the Secretary of State will have to intervene. This can't go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u78	That's a very clear position. I also think it is very important that that happens. After all, the old boys network of the drivers, also often women, is a big problem in the care. On the board of ActiZ, the dome acting on behalf of all healthcare institutions, there are two directors on that list. How is that possible, you wonder? Their regulation will not come from them. I am glad that the CDA is over and says: the regulation is not from the sector itself; the Secretary of State is allowed to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u79	I did not say that, because there are institutions where things are going well. So, in general, saying it's messed up everywhere is just wrong. However, where it has been clear for years that it is not good, Mrs Leijten knows the names of the institutions in question as well as I do, the Secretary of State must intervene if the sector does not do so itself. I would like to draw your attention to the inhabitants. We all know that at some point they are no longer able to express what they want. But at least let their families or their agents and the people in the workplace have a firm say in it. This is to prevent us from going into paper quality in the future. That's another, very big concern of mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u80	Mr. Chairman. With the firm head "Bad nursing home needs to improve or close" last Monday, Secretary of State Van Rijn took the flight forward in his response to the bar poor results of the comparative survey of the state of our nursing homes. 39 institutions to which we have entrusted the care of our elderly people are under tighter supervision, and another 11 are so serious that closure is over their heads. Van Rijn spoke very big words: the rotten apples had to come out. Improve where it can, normalize where it needs to and close where it needs to. Major measures will not be shy and bad nursing homes simply have to close. End of quote. However, the proverbial mess only really broke out when the list of very poor performing nursing homes became public. Thanks to Mr Leijten's sharpness, it soon became clear that seven of the eleven worst performing institutions belong to Van Rijn's example institutions. Headrunners! In the State Secretary's view, they should become the norm for everyone else. Those frontrunners are furious now. Van Rijn pushed her into the canyon last Monday, but who will be on the bottom sooner? She or the Secretary of State they've been holding over their heads for years? Probably moved back in this afternoon for that reason. Suddenly there is no longer an acute danger to the health of the inhabitants, but the necessary improvements must be made as soon as possible. But what is it? Close it, or are you okay? At least it's crazy. I've had a lot of experience with this for the past ten years, but this is really something! It's such an absurd plot that there's no sense of reality in it anymore. If the Secretary of State is going to break the career of dysfunctional managers and today acutely throws out all the directors who had previously had to take the field because of proven misconduct, we support him. We would also support him if he finally entered that driver's test. Maybe the inspection itself is the rotten apple. With the 2010 agreement, we gave her half more budget, on the condition that the people behind their desks would come from it. Get rid of the paper reality! But we see now, so many years later, that they cling stubbornly to that paperwork. During a recent round table meeting, Carla van de Graaf van Altenastaete said: "Last year we had a visit. Luckily, we were found to be okay, but it did give her some abdominal pain when she came. What are they testing for? There came people who had nothing to do with care, who never worked there. I asked them what they were gonna do, and then they said they were gonna look at the rules and see if everything's on paper. Luckily, there was a lot on paper. I asked them if they wanted a tour and if they wanted to talk to the residents, without us being there. But none of that was necessary." What kind of lousy M.O. is that? What is good care according to the inspection? Is that having the folders in order or an atmosphere of loving care for our elders? I take Hans Becker's yes culture from Humanitas as an example. Is he a frontrunner or one of the worst performers? The solution lies in more staff. Almost all the problems in nursing homes, such as malnutrition, drugging, staining, dehydration, mischief and languishing, can lead back to insufficient and insufficiently qualified staff. If you don't solve that, it's gonna suck. And yes, that's unparliamentary language, but it's nothing but the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u81	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u82	What is needed is money, not the mantra that houses with the same money have the place in order. I am talking about finance in the debate in September. Finally, a word of thanks to all those greats who work their way out day in, day out to lovingly care for the most vulnerabilities of our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u83	In 15 minutes we will continue with the answer from the cabinet in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u84	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, about 12% of all older people over 75 years of age are no longer able to live in their homes because of restrictions. Together with their relatives, they must choose a place in an institution. In my letter I indicated that choosing a place in a nursing home is often a choice that people prefer not to make. It is opting for the last move and the last residence. That choice is accompanied by grief and sometimes even fear. It is especially important for these older people that the caregivers are skilled, that they can empathise with the elderly and have time and attention for them. Family and other relatives should feel welcome. The enormous challenges facing nursing home care in the future are very great. There is indeed a developing complex concern. People who go to a nursing home now have heavier care questions and come there at a later age with more complex problems. We make higher demands on the quality of life in an institution, because it's not just about good care or good medication safety I've come back to that extensively, but also about a good quality of life in an institution. We want family and relatives to be better involved in the provision of care. We want the base in order: it must be safe everywhere. For a large part nursing care develops into high care, high quality, to put it in good Dutch. Quality questions are getting sharper and care questions are getting sharper. Every day I see how passionate employees struggle with this, because they want to give that other care. Every day I notice with what energy those employees and employees can do it. I see a lot of examples where it works. Every day I see involved and passionate employees who manage to provide small-scale care, pay attention to residents and give good care. They still suck most of the negative imagery, if something goes wrong in the whole sector. Those who work with heart and soul in care every day simply suffer from it. It's bothering them because they're thinking about it. They suffer from it on their birthdays and in their work, because they want to be proud of the sector in which they work. That is exactly why we have all said: how can we, in a structural sense, change the quality of nursing care? That's not from the thought of a quickfix, not from the thought of turning a button and then it's settled. We've been talking about that quality for ten years. How can we ensure that we work structuralally, slowly but surely, on improving quality? In three ways, we're trying to shape that. The first question is: how can we ensure that more quality is achieved? How do we strike a more balanced balance between the protocols that we are discussing, and I am very much in agreement with Mrs Keijzer, which means that there is literally and figuratively more room for attention to be paid to residents? Mrs Agema is also right, of course, that when we delete all kinds of unnecessary rules, the experiment has also shown low-level institutions that there will actually be more time for the caregivers to pay attention to the residents. That is a very hard point: more quality. We also want the basic quality to be in order. So what's that basic quality? Can we just record that for a second? We've been talking about this for ten years. We started with the standards of responsible care. There's been a lot of discussion about that. Could we come to something that everyone says is good basic care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u85	I see an interruption. I'll allow two interruptions. This is Mrs Agema's first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u86	I must confess that I am very angry because the Secretary of State himself put the fuse in this powder keg on Monday and caused the unrest in the country himself. Then the opening of the Secretary of State doesn't really fit. We have also achieved something this morning, namely that the Secretary of State, in connection with the Experiment Office, has indicated that there are concrete objectives to reduce the regulatory burden, which is spent 40% of the time on. Ten years ago, we had another plan. I'd like to put that to the Secretary of State. My group chairman, Mr Wilders, started a overhead plan ten years ago. He then argued that nurses who have had a good job for years can only get higher by accepting a management job. I propose to the Secretary of State to start a pilot in which people from management, nurses who have been working in management over the years, can again carry out an executive task while retaining their salary. So they go back to the workplace from management and keep their paychecks. Is the Secretary of State prepared to launch such a pilot?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u87	Part of the program Dignity and pride is looking at possibilities to make the staff mix different, to make sure that a bit like in the past people with more experience and more wisdom on the work floor can give instruction and say how to do it. I'll come back to it in great detail. It is not so much about numbers, but rather about the staff mix to provide that good care. I was working on my first piece: how are we going to further improve that quality? Part of Dignity and pride is that we allow a number of experiments in which we start to improve quality. I notice every day that there is incredibly much enthusiasm and commitment to working together on that quality improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u88	My proposal was very concrete to start a pilot to allow people who have accepted a management function from the workplace over the years to return to an executive role that is the only way to earn more in care while retaining salary. They don't direct, they don't give orders. No, they just cooperate on the work floor while maintaining that higher salary of that management function. We then had it calculated that that would be the equivalent of EUR 800 million, i.e. some 16,000 extra hands on the bed, without having to pay a penny. All the Secretary of State has to do is say, "Yeah, I'm gonna do that pilot." I'll be a lot happier by then. The only thing I want to control my anger is a lot of extra hands on the bed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u89	Institutions that have executives that can and will do so can do so tomorrow. There are no obstacles to that. A person who is active in the management from the care sector can return to work in the institution while retaining the salary. That is a decision of the institution itself. That can be decided tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u90	We're doing interruptions in two, Mrs. Agema. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u91	Then I want to use my second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u92	Mrs Agema's second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u93	Mr. Chairman. If this important debate, for which so many people are sitting furiously on the couch at home, is to be cut off for a moment, then I do remember a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u94	You are very welcome to post your second interruption. I just showed you how we're gonna do this. It's 11:00 in the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u95	I'm just saying that the Secretary of State's answer is factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u96	Mrs. Agema, go ahead. Your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u97	The point is that the extra pay scale isn't there for the workplace. Those people cannot therefore continue to carry out an executive task for the same salary. So there's an obstacle. I am simply asking the Secretary of State to make that possible, to put action behind it and, if possible, to report on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u98	Again, I don't see any obstacles. If someone in the management of the organization wants to do the same salary executive work, I don't see any obstacle that I would have to remove to bring that about. Mr. Chairman. So better quality, that basic quality. Less rules I just mentioned. And indeed leadership: what leadership is needed to ensure the quality of institutions, to know what is going on in the workplace and to know what is going on with the employees? What is needed for good leadership in the future? That's how we want to work on that quality piece. The second element is the way in which we are going to define quality. Like I said, we've been talking about that for about ten years. From the standards of responsible care at the time to whether we all agree on what basic care is and how safety should be in order. I welcome the fact that we are making real progress on that point. We will soon have a set of basic indicators, which all the parties say are: these are them. These can be used by the care buyers, by the institutions themselves and by the inspection. So that gives us an objective measuring bar. Transparency about performance is also that we can simply say from any institution with what location it meets or does not meet that standard. That's a big good. This is a further step towards transparency, which I attach great importance to. The third pillar in Dignity and pride was stronger supervision. What we want is transparency and visibility where it is not good. It is very sensible that if it is bad somewhere, it should also be made transparent and visible. No matter how painful that may be. Because transparency hurts. Of course, this must be done with due care. It will have to be done with even more care in the coming period. I'll get back to you on that. This transparency is very essential. Schools have become transparent about school performance, hospitals have become transparent about the indicators for good hospital care and in the care sector the same will have to be done with regard to transparency of performance. There's nothing wrong with that. That goes with falling and getting up and that sometimes hurts like hell, but it's very important for an adult sector that is proud of its work and that can improve where it doesn't go well. The sector must, as Mr Van der Staaij says, know a culture in which you learn from mistakes, you are going to improve yourself and clearly if something is not going well. Well, you can do that. That's not a quick fix. It's a long-term thing and it hurts sometimes, but it's good to do. It's possible, every day. I have a lot of work visits where I see that it can be done, that small-scale work can be done, that attention for clients can be realized, that there can be open talk about incidents or calamities and that management knows what is going on in the workplace. It can therefore be that involved directors, proud employees and co-creative relatives are able to bring good quality care to one another. Of course, at the stage in which we are now making this transparency, we have discussions, such as on that list. Let me go into that, because a number of questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u99	The Secretary of State actually started reading from the letter with which he sent the inspection report to the Chamber. I stood up, but I thought, "Wait a minute, let me give the Secretary of State a chance to be concrete." Then I hear a lot of words about what needs to change in the future. But I want it today. In fact, we all wanted it when we talked about it in November 2014. I am sure that the Secretary of State is going to say a lot of things about the plans he has, which I have also said are good ones. I want him to leave that, because he already sent it to us by letter. I want him to tell us what he's going to do today, well, that's gonna be difficult at 11:15; it's gonna be late again tomorrow to actually improve the quality for the fathers and mothers who are now in nursing homes where it's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u100	We have been working on this every day and we are working on it every day. I am trying to identify precisely the three fronts on which we are all taking action to improve quality with the institutions and the workplace itself. Many institutions are working on the quality of the four points I mentioned. We do this by agreeing that there will be a basic set in which we will establish the required safety requirements for medication, hygiene and the care plan. The Chamber has been able to read all that. We have put in place a quality framework for monitoring. In it we have set standards for safe care. That is what we are going to test every institution. This year we are already starting to make this transparent at location and institution level. For example, we can make it public and transparent across the board from 1 January 2016. I have also indicated that we are going to look more closely at the inspections. There's gonna be tighter surveillance. Monitoring is aimed at improving, but this improvement must also take place. We ask the inspection to be very careful; that is what the Chamber has seen in my letter. But there will be situations where additional supervision will no longer help or where supervision alone cannot create a sustainable situation. We make an intervention team that can see what is needed in such cases. Then maybe we need the care office to look at the purchase. Then perhaps we need the municipality to look at the buildings and the re-destination. Then we need the Healthcare Authority to look at the prices and the development of budgets. Those are things we all do. There are therefore three factors involved: improving quality with institutions at institution level, ensuring responsible care standards that everyone can use every day, including in supervision, and improving supervision, where possible followed by further steps if this is not enough. With these factors, we have a very firm approach, which ensures a mature sector, in which performance is transparent and in which there is a culture that learns from that performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u101	I hear a lot of "we're gonna do this," "we're gonna do that," "we're gonna do this" and "we're gonna do that." The 2014 inspection report already covered medication safety, freedom-making measures and the absence of structural improvements. The current inspection report states the same with the observation that attention is falling on improvements, that this applies not only to the 150 institutions but also to the whole sector, and that institutions that continue to fall back pose major risks of unsafe care. So I don't want to hear "we're going" and "we're going to." I want to know what's gonna happen next. We all wanted this debate because, as Mrs Volp of the PvdA said in particular, before we enter the summer holidays, we need to be clear about what is going to happen in the institutions where basic care is not guaranteed. That's what I'm here for today. I'd like it to be concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u102	I will go into the 11 institutions, but I will say it again. You, through yourself, asked me last time when we had that debate: do research at these 150 institutions to see what is going well and what is not; make them transparent; make them visible. I can still quote your lyrics; I have them here with me. That is what we have done. That investigation is now in place. Performance is transparent. Now we can say what about these 150 institutions, what part of them we can now close down and what we still have concerns or serious concerns about. That's a big profit. This means that we can use supervision more specifically and strengthen it. That is how we know exactly where we can take action. Moreover, we must look at the whole sector. We are dealing with 750 institutions. 150 of them were specifically targeted by the inspection. 38 of them are subject to enhanced supervision. At 11 of them, there are greater concerns. In the case of those 11, it is necessary to look very specifically at whether they are able to make these improvements on their own. If not, other measures are needed. That will happen institution by institution. I asked the inspection to inform me in October. It has great concerns about these 11 institutions. Are those worries gone in October? If so, then that's very nice. If no, further measures should be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u103	May I ask everyone, including the Secretary of State, to speak through the President?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u104	Some kind of bomb went off. This is mainly due to the fact that the health care institutions concerned have now become public. What we all actually already knew, namely that big is not good, has now become reality. The bigger the setting the bigger the bobo. The bigger the driver's salaries, the bigger the parking space in front of the door and the greater the power. Those are the people who are far away from the institution, who sit in all kinds of boards of employers' organizations and who may be knocking down the door of the ministry. That's where the quality isn't right. What the inspection says is that these drivers repeatedly turn out to be powerless to provide care and safety for their residents. What does the Secretary of State say about this outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u105	I don't think it's good to talk in general. There are small institutions that we are concerned about because the care there is often underestimated and where the inspection sometimes has to intervene because no proper care is provided. There are also large settings that work small-scale and achieve great performance in different locations. The opposite is also the case. The core is that we develop such supervision that we know what the standards to be followed are, whether they are large or small, thick or thin. We need to be able to measure the situation and intervene if necessary. At large institutions you have to be extra alert about whether the management knows enough about the workplace. Mrs Leijten is absolutely right about that. These are aspects that play a greater role in large institutions than in small institutions. Small scale has great advantages, but this does not mean that small scale can only be achieved in small organisations. Sometimes this is also possible in large organizations. I don't care. If we are to agree standards of safe care, it must be safe everywhere; whether it is a large or small institution, it must be clear to everyone, for care buyers, for the institutions themselves and for inspection, what to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u106	That is a repeat of what the Secretary of State said in his introduction. I find it interesting to note that what has been said here for years and has been mentioned for years is now happening. There is a group of drivers who keep each other's hands above their heads, shake hands everywhere, hit each other on the backs and say "what a good deal we're doing with each other," but who doesn't listen to the needs of the people on the work floor and who don't see that older people get bad care under their responsibility. They're getting pissed off right now. The striking thing is that the Secretary of State knows these people well and has included them as a good example in his programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u107	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u108	Will the Secretary of State promise here that sanctions will be imposed on drivers who fail over and over again? Will he promise that these directors will immediately be taken out of the promotional program Dignity and pride? The Secretary of State is giving them feathers to show off when they shouldn't have those feathers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u109	Again, I don't think we should talk in general. In setting up the Dignity and pride programme, we asked institutions to come up with plans to improve parts of their own institution, from which everyone can learn. We have asked for this widely, from 200 institutions. That is very good, because that means that not only front-runners can sign up for something like this, I believe that Mrs Leijten wanted that at the time, but that everyone should be able to be an example on parts of the care. That's very good, but the inspection will of course continue. So even if there are 200 institutions participating in Dignity and pride, the inspection can find that parts are not in order and that needs to be dealt with. Of course, that's just gonna happen. And an institution where it is not good cannot, of course, be an example for other institutions. I agree. However, this means that, on the one hand, we must look very closely at the points where improvement is taking place and give good examples and, on the other hand, where monitoring and action are needed. It's just gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u110	I see Mrs. Agema at the interrupting microphone. You still have half an interruption, an interruption in one part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u111	I have spoken three times, Mr President. That'll be one and a half. I want to make a point of order. I would like to suggest to my fellow Members that the strings are being celebrated and that we ask you, Mr President, to deal with the interruptions a little more broadly. It is indeed 11.15 p.m., but we have all wanted this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u112	I do not see any broad support for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u113	I support Mrs Agema's request. If there is a need for more interruptions and a little more flexibility, so that we can really get some more concrete answers, I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u114	I'll suspend the meeting and ask the spokesmen to come to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u115	Let's move on. There were some people standing by the interrupting microphone. I give the floor to Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u116	I think this is a bit of a crazy debate. Last Monday, the inspection reports came in. The Secretary of State puts the fuse in the powder keg. He says: radical measures are not shy, nursing homes just have to close. Two days later, the list becomes public. Mr Leijten points out that seven of the eleven institutions are the leaders of the Secretary of State and then the tone changes. I can only hear the Secretary of State now talking about improvement plans. I would ask the Secretary of State to ensure that every director of these 11 institutions who has already had to leave because of misperformance goes straight out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u117	I say two things about this. The first is: what exactly is the point of closing or not closing? The core of the monitoring, of the whole supervisory toolbox, is that the inspection is monitoring and coming to conclusions. These conclusions may range from enhanced monitoring, where the inspection closely monitors the institution and comes up with all kinds of reports, an indication or an order. All kinds of measures can be taken. That's just supervision. I just said that it may not be enough and that more is needed. This "more" means that we also look at the care office, the municipality or the building. That's why there's the intervention team. Regular supervision and tight supervision can range from supervision and guidance to undercurate of the board and a crisis team that can intervene if it has to go beyond what the institution itself can improve or if more is needed. That's what I said. This means that institutions must indeed improve. If this is not possible on its own or otherwise, action must be taken in a different way. That's how I said it, that's how I keep saying it, and that's how I'm saying it today. Nothing has changed. We are going to continue to pay more and more attention to the eleven, which will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u118	There's an ocean of difference between closing and "improving plans until October." I am asking the Secretary of State a specific question and I am not getting an answer. I specifically ask the Secretary of State to throw out today any director who is now involved in these eleven worst performing organisations and who has already left with another organisation, the carousel of dysfunctional managers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u119	As Mrs Agema knows, we have had a whole debate in this Chamber on good governance and governance. We then talk about how to ensure that there is good governance and what the laws and regulations are in that regard. Inspections don't fire drivers, that's what supervisory councils are supposed to do. Drivers are employed by the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board may be given instructions to do so. The inspection shall monitor the quality of care and, if there are any comments on the management or on a driver, may bring the management under curatel, that instrument shall have the inspection. If the inspection considers that a change of management should take place, it will be necessary to have a serious discussion with the Supervisory Board. That's the way it is. In this way, the instruments available, a clue or an order, can simply be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u120	My question was actually about the points in this respect, but I can see that some of my fellow Members would like to comment on this point. Maybe it's useful that this happens first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u121	I thank Mrs Bergkamp for her thoughtful response. I shall continue with Mrs Agema's interruption, who asked what that means to close. The Secretary of State gave a rather long answer, but it did not show that he could eventually also decide to close institutions. When I look at the press release that the Secretary of State himself sent last Monday, the headline is: improve or close. I'd like to hear from him what he's going to do. He's hiding behind the inspection now, but what's he gonna do himself if a care facility continues to function badly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u122	Then I am going to use the instruments available for this purpose, ranging from enhanced supervision to, indeed, the order to close. It's possible. We have these tools and are in the hands of the inspection, the independent supervisor, who can use the whole variety: simple supervision, enhanced supervision, designation and possibly a closure order. You can, and you can stay that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u123	The Secretary of State is talking about the inspection again, but I'm asking what he can do himself. It was rightly said here that the Secretary of State may also decide to dismiss directors of ill-functioning institutions. If you have such a firm language out of it, it was really a very tough press release, then I think he should keep it up here in the debate too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u124	I'm gonna hold onto that, too. There is a reason why we have an inspection with the statutory inspection tools, which varies from supervision to an order. That order may also be the order to stop taking people in and shut down the institution. We do. The law requires the inspection to assess how best to intervene. The entire range applies to this. Of course we hope for improvements. The inspection can then say: we had comments, the situation has improved and it is ready. Whether the inspection is dissatisfied and will keep it sharper, up to and including, if necessary, an order for closure. Those are the instruments that I have and which the inspection can apply on those grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u125	I, too, experience a difference between the press release and the Secretary of State's presentation today. My question concerns the analysis the Secretary of State himself is making. A question concerns me very much, as do my colleagues. There are nursing homes that function well and there are nursing homes with the same money that function less well. When I look at the list, I see that there are quite a lot of nursing homes in the so-called big cities. Does the Secretary of State recognise that there are specific problems which also require specific attention? I'm talking about often finding volunteers and staff difficult and problems with real estate. If the Secretary of State acknowledges this, I would ask him to use specific policy on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u126	The answer is yes. The Chamber has read in my letter that I have a specific policy on this. We have three pillars in this enhanced surveillance. The first pillar is the monitoring tools of the inspection, which may range from the enforcement of improvement measures to an order for closure. It's gonna stay that way. The second pillar is an intervention team, which can be deployed if it is no longer possible to lean on the improvement force or if the supervisory tools are inadequate because you need other players. The third pillar is the regional approach à la Amsterdam approach, to consider whether specific metropolitan problems should be approached and solved in a different way, especially in the case of those institutions operating in the metropolitan areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u127	I ask this because this analysis is important. It's about culture. It is sometimes also about the way in which directors direct their organisation. However, sometimes there are also specific problems, which call for specific attention. I mentioned the Amsterdam approach in my contribution. Is that really the approach that the Secretary of State sees as an example, and which he wants to bring to fruition in the region as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u128	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u129	It may be annoying, but I would like to go back to the previous point. In my contribution, I asked the Secretary of State what exactly is the difference between the role of the inspection and the role of the Secretary of State as an administrative body, or as the person who should be able to intervene if things go wrong. The Secretary of State has just indicated that the escalation ladder runs from an inspection to an order to close, but what if the inspection does not occur? What if the Secretary of State or the Minister comes to the conclusion that something has to happen, although the inspection is not acting? What is the additional role of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u130	If I were to have a discussion on whether the inspection should be judged correctly, I would have a toolbox for that. The inspection will be conducted externally. The performance of the inspection shall be reviewed periodically. I must, of course, work with the Minister to ensure that our inspection continues to function properly. That is our normal role vis-à-vis the supervisor, from the independent supervisory role of the inspection. However, with regard to the assessment of an institution's activities and the measures that result from them, we have created the legally independent supervisor, who has the tools to do so. Nor can we give individual directions to the inspection: do this. Or: Do that. The law explicitly states that we are not allowed to do so. We can give a general indication of policy and management, but of course we cannot say to the independent inspection: do this. Or: Do that. If we were to have a discussion about the operation of the inspection, we could do that; we have the usual tools to do so. Then it is about the functioning of the inspection, about the visits or about external investigations that we use for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u131	Am I to understand that the Secretary of State says the following? If the inspection at the 38 or perhaps the 11 do not take a measure which I think is really necessary, then the Secretary of State will depend on whether or not the inspection is taking place at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u132	We have, of course, created the law with each other to have an independent supervisor who looks at institutions for us, and who then takes measures ranging from enhanced supervision to a closure order. That is how we regulated these instruments in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u133	I think there's a point in the question: which drivers don't do what they have to do? That's what the inspection makes clear. Above all, I would like us to use the drivers who do well, who have a so-called quality picture, to show those who do not. As far as I'm concerned, that is: really know what's going on in the house, so know both the residents and the people who work there. We need to make sure that the directors of the 11 institutions that we are specifically concerned about and what the inspection is looking at are really getting started now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u134	Mrs Volp has read that this possibility is also included in that quality plan. In 50 cases, mutual support is also provided. At the same time, such a crisis intervention team will be deployed, for example, at the 11 or other institutions with major problems. Other drivers can help as far as I'm concerned. The trade association has also said that it wants to work actively towards a way in which institutions can support each other. People with more administrative experience can go to institutions with less administrative experience or with other kinds of problems. However, we must distinguish between things. On the formal side there is supervision, leading to conclusions. That may be the conclusion that there should be an indication or an undercurate statement, or that there should be a serious discussion with the supervisory board because there should be a change of management. That's the tools of inspection she could use. Of course, it is good if there is mutual support and institutions ask the question: how can we help you to improve? However, we must insist that there is also a formal line, namely the inspection, which can deploy the inspection tools, with all the formal requirements that apply to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u135	Apart from the formal line or helping each other out, I want those eleven off the list. This requires drivers to know what to do. If the good guys can help, it seems to me that either they should be on the intervention team, or they should be added to it, in order to teach their colleagues what to do. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that this is also the way to be followed, apart from formal supervision, because care needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u136	I agree. I'm just trying to figure out where the contradiction is. The inspection has these cases, up to and including giving a clue and putting them under curate, in her instrument box. If that is not enough, if supervision is inadequate or if there are other reasons, the crisis intervention team can look even further. Among other things, drivers from other institutions can be used to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u137	It's not just the inspection. The Secretary of State has powers of his own. That's what I'm looking for. This inspection report, of course, did not fall out of the sky. We discussed it in November too, often with the same defects. When is the time for the Secretary of State to just say it's done now? I think that's what the sector needs. At some point you have to stop talking endlessly and you just have to say: this is the lower limit, this is unacceptable. That's what the Secretary of State said. Then, under all the laws that have just been listed, which reflect the powers of the Secretary of State, he must also do something with them. Otherwise, no one will take the debates and the inspection reports seriously anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u138	We must take the inspection reports very seriously. That is precisely why they are made. Moreover, I note that the reports are working, because if the inspection indicates what standards it will keep for the institutions and what is unacceptable, it will be taken into account. In various laws we have incorporated the powers we have to supervise institutions. We have a legal instrument for this, which is used by the independent supervisor, the inspection. I have just said that the actions of the inspection may range from enhanced surveillance to the closure order. These are the legal powers we have created and will have to take shape in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u139	No, Mr. Chairman. Not only the inspection, but also the minister. The Minister has powers of direction and the Secretary of State may take up his position. I'm going back to the inspection report. I have already quoted this in my initial contribution. The inspection writes: "organisations take action and use quality improvements in a relatively short period of time. Then the attention goes down." The inspection adds that this does not apply exclusively to the 150 care establishments tested. It is therefore necessary to put a stop to this, otherwise we will continue to hold these discussions. The Secretary of State has my support if he uses his authority at some point, precisely in the interests of our parents who stay in nursing homes where it is not in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u140	I agree with Mrs Keijzer. It is not just a question of the inspection having the power to say that something goes wrong or threatens to go wrong and that action is therefore necessary. It is also not good if an institution only works well if there is supervision every time to maintain quality. If things don't go well in a position, there may be supervision that will make it go well for a while. If it goes down again, then that is not a situation that can last for years. In such a case, further steps will therefore have to be taken to ensure that such an institution is properly organised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u141	We have been holding the debate on how to deal with the directors in cases of mismanagement, fraud and grazing for a very long time, including with the Minister. The Minister said: with the power of designation under the Quality Act, I have different possibilities of intervention in the area of inappropriate administration, which varies from giving a mandate to the Board of Directors to an appointment to replace the Board of Directors at the very least. In other words, get to work!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u142	Yes, I agree with Mrs Leijten. She also quotes from the debate on good governance and governance. In the extreme case, a supervisory board can indeed be given an indication of the need to exchange directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u143	No, it really says: replacing a driver is the appointment of the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State says that the inspection does so all the time, and I cannot impose this on the inspection. We're dealing with executives from major institutions. We have been saying for years: do something! That's possible, because we also have black-and-white that they're failing. They're failing! I've agreed with the VVD that they still have the summer. If there is no improvement at the end of the summer: get out! Is that what the Secretary of State's gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u144	If there are failing drivers, they should simply be able to be replaced. We have tools for this, but that must be done carefully. We have the instruments we have for that. I have argued in favour of not saying in general: let us do this or that for a moment. We have instruments for this. There's a way to deal with that. We can also apply it where it is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u145	We're talking about replacing drivers. Those are drastic measures. I would like to zoom in on the period preceding that, namely that institutions learn from each other. The Secretary of State indicated that ActiZ is willing to think about that. I also raised the issue of buddying a year and a half ago in a debate. I see that this is happening so little, because the underlying culture is that institutions are not transparent. They don't want to learn from the mistakes. They don't communicate about what went wrong. How are we gonna change that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u146	By just doing it. By operating along three lines, as I indicated. We need to make sure that we really learn from each other. See the program Dignity and pride. Furthermore, we need to make clear what the standards of basic care and good care are and make them measurable for everyone, so that everyone can be placed along the same measuring bar. There must also be strong and strong monitoring and transparency about performance. That is the way we work steadily but surely to ensure that we learn from it and that we can measure the quality. If it's not in order, we can intervene. That must be the way we want to walk off with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u147	I understand what the Secretary of State is saying, but these are all outside measures: external surveillance, external inspection. Things have to change from the inside, too. We can't change everything from politics. I'm aware of that, too. I do see that in some of the institutions I do not want to equate them all with the culture that mistakes are kept internally and that mistakes are not learned from mistakes. There's just a structural problem. We cannot solve this with external measures alone. There really has to change something internally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u148	Oh, yeah. We are also talking, for example, about the functioning of the supervisory boards. They should not only look at the real estate and the money, but also at the quality of the institution. We must therefore also be able to raise the question of which people are on the supervisory board. Do they also notice whether the drivers know the workplace? Are they also paying attention to whether there is good quality? Are they also taking measures to ensure that internal culture is one that you can learn from? Calamities must be reported and then discussed openly, because you learn from them. That is indeed the internal culture that is all about. 'Cause if everything has to come from outside, we're not gonna make much progress. I now come to the answer of a number of specific questions. Mrs Volp asked how we should describe the categories of institutions. I think she asked us how to see the 11, 38 and 150. In 2014, we had a debate with each other. At the time, I was asked whether I would like to look at the institutions that are under stricter supervision. How is the development at that point? The inspection went to 150 institutions. The results were then examined. At 89 the surveillance is closed. At 38 the supervision cannot be closed and at 11 there are additional concerns. In this classification, the inspection looked not only at the inspection results, but also at the overall picture, including the calamities, the reports and other factors that are relevant to the risk assessment. Eventually, the inspection based on its professional judgement said: all inspection reports, notifications, emergencies and otherwise overseeing, these are risk settings on 15 March 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u149	I just needed to find out what the Secretary of State's reaction was. I have here the Decision laying down rules for the task of the Health Inspectorate. It states that the Minister has the power to designate the inspection, except as regards the manner in which an investigation is carried out, and the findings, judgements or opinions that the inspection makes or establishes. That seems logical to me, because that is our competence. The Minister therefore has a very broad mandate, including to replace the administration or to take other measures in case of an emergency. Is it possible that this Secretary of State, when he is not satisfied with the conclusions and actions of the inspection at the end of the summer, will say to the Minister: will you give a clue, because I do not think this is going well? Can we count on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u150	I can give the IGZ a clue to an action. I must then report this to the House of Representatives by law. The IGZ is then the instrument that performs this. That's how it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u151	I do not care very much who makes the appointment, but at the end of the day you will be able to act in the role of inspection when we really think that a board is not capable or that another measure should be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u152	Then I'll give a lead to the inspection to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u153	Mrs. Agema is going to post her fourth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u154	This round started remarkably with my interruption, on which the Secretary of State specifically said that he could not fire those managers. Now we've gone around and it turns out he can. I repeat my question: is the Secretary of State prepared to break through that career of dysfunctional managers? Is he prepared to dismiss from the 11 institutions the directors who had to leave earlier because of malpractice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u155	If there are failing drivers, action must be taken. That's what instruments are for. We have the normal inspection tools for that. The inspection will then speak to the supervisory boards. If that is not enough, I can give the inspection a lead to ensure that it takes action. This will mean, in a formal, labour law sense, that an instruction is made to the supervisory board to dismiss the driver. That's how it works in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u156	I'm gonna ask you for the 483,000th time. It's such a specific question, but the Secretary of State, please help me, Chairman.... just doesn't answer. I can come back here five more times to post the same interruption, but he's not answering. I would like to ask a very specific question: is the Secretary of State prepared to dismiss, yes or no, out of the eleven known worst performing institutions, the directors who have already had to leave because of malpractice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u157	You can't say that in general, of course. If there is a failure of governance, action must be taken. We have instruments for this and we will apply them. I really can't be any brighter at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u158	Just so you know, when you're on a failing board, you can act. Does the Secretary of State not consider it to be a failure to provide quality care or safety for residents?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u159	If this is a structural situation where there are insufficient opportunities for improvement and insufficient action is being taken to improve it, then that will be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u160	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u161	Mrs Volp's second question was: what is the inspection going to do, what are we all going to do to ensure that these concerns are removed and that the institutions get off the list? I don't want to repeat myself. One: we have the inspection tools. Two: if this proves insufficient or other measures are needed, we will ensure that crisis intervention teams go there, accompanied, if necessary, by other drivers who can help in doing so. Moreover, as always, the inspection continues to closely monitor all the institutions where this is the case, i.e. all 50 and not only the 11. This may lead to an improvement by the institution itself, but if it does not produce sufficient results, it may also result in the inspection taking a measure from the range of measures we have just outlined. Mrs Volp asked whether the extra money for more daily spending and more training is well spent and exactly how that goes. A healthcare provider receives these additional resources and then a plan is drawn up jointly with clients and employees for their use. Those are the demands. It must meet the requirements of the employees and the requirements of the Client Council and then those additional resources will be released. That process is in full swing, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u162	It's a good thing the Secretary of State says again what he's going to do to remove those concerns. However, we must be aware that this transparency has led to these concerns. The Secretary of State himself rightly stated that the people who are in the phase of bringing a loved one to a nursing home should not be questioned by a list. The Minister just said something about the extra money spent on daily spending and training. This raised the question of how carers who do not even have their own institution in mind know how much money they have to spend on day-to-day spending or training. How is that consistent with the State Secretary's remark that clients and healthcare professionals are involved? Can they even do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u163	This is possible because a plan is only honoured if it has the consent of the Client Council and the employees. They can and must talk, because that money will not be available if that does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u164	We now have a transparent list and that makes it possible for us to have the inspection check which care drivers in principle do not know what their organisation looks like. You should actually put that list next to a list of the expenses that have been spent on those millions. Only then will we know if those same carers are also the ones who do not know what their organization is like. Then that can't be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u165	I think the beauty of the extra-quality money is that they can only be spent on a plan that the employees and the client council have agreed to. This ensures that the money is spent in such a way that the client councils or employees say: that is a good investment in my institution. That is a good way of working, because it makes a direct connection with the workplace and the client representation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u166	Can I say that the caregivers who have not made a photoscan of their organisation cannot, by definition, claim this? I hope that is allowed, because those caregivers simply do not have enough knowledge of what is happening on the work floor and what is happening to the people in their homes at bed and in bed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u167	It is perhaps a great side effect of the way in which these funds have been made available that only plans that the client councils and employees have agreed to can be met. This forces the directors to check with the people on the work floor and in the client councils whether the plans can count on their agreement. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten spoke of an emergency fund for more staff. It would be a bit of an easy answer to say that the emergency fund is actually already there, because we have made additional resources available for the quality plans of the institutions, plans that employees and customer representation have to agree to. It is also not good to have this discussion in terms of money. There are still quite a few resources available, including from the institutions. I have looked again at the development of the exploitation results of the sector, and it appeared to me that last year was some 120 million. Solvency and resilience are also not such that resources would no longer be available. I also note that we have not made a cut and that we have added additional resources to enable the institutions to do more in terms of quality. I believe that we can then ask institutions, also in view of our action to reduce the regulatory burden, to make sufficient resources available to ensure proper care. Mr Potters was right to point out that it is special to see what some institutions know how to do with their money. All in all, I think there are plenty of opportunities to provide good care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u168	Those extra resources for day-to-day spending and such are fine. I suggest something else: an emergency fund available immediately. I could imagine you putting 100 million in there, for starters. That emergency fund is there for people who work in a nursing home and say: I stand here in the middle of the night alone with 60 residents. Or: there are two of us here and we have to get 30 residents out of bed. We're not gonna make it. These people should be able to report to that emergency fund and say: I have too few colleagues. They will only do so if they are not heard within the institution. At the same time, this is a perfect mechanism for ringing the bell. We can then immediately do what we say we want to do here, to relieve those employees, to do what is necessary right now. Why can't the Secretary of State do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u169	The first reason is that we have already made additional resources available. The second reason is this one. Creating an emergency fund that can be used by anyone, which we do not know whether it will help and how the money should be distributed or used, will only result in bureaucracy again. It also doesn't help as a long-term solution. I would like to draw your attention to the research carried out by Maastricht University. The question was: Does it help to deploy more staff? The result is that this has no real relationship with a quality development. So I am not in favour of such an emergency fund with a mess of solutions that do not actually contribute to the long-term solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u170	The Secretary of State says that it is so serious that closure of institutions is obvious. A bomb went off last Monday. The VVD is angry! And what do we do next? Nothing. Why can't the Secretary of State make 100 million available to people who are really facing a problem? For Debbie, who wants to work full-time with permanent residents but doesn't get the chance? Why can't the Secretary of State do that? That is the instrument to see where it goes wrong, the instrument to bypass drivers who always make a pot of it, and to immediately provide more hands on the bed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u171	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u172	We can do that, can't we? Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u173	It's not about getting around drivers. It is not a question of creating an emergency fund from The Hague, from which we give some money here and there and with which we think it has been resolved. That's not how it's gonna work. We have already discussed the need to work steadily on improving quality in the long term. I have mentioned a number of instruments for this; I will not repeat them. I do not think that it is convenient to create an emergency fund, with which we give extra money to institutions without knowing at all whether that is the solution, which is a structural improvement in quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u174	Mrs Leijten with your fifth interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u175	Employees who say they can't care because they're just too few, know that it helps if they call on that fund. Why doesn't the Secretary of State have that confidence? Why does the Secretary of State immediately see another problem when you give power to those people who should have the power but not get it from the drivers who are the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u176	As I said earlier, we are giving the additional resources we have provided, 200 million additional structuralally, in the hands of client councils and employee representation, care representation. That is exactly what Mrs Leijten is looking for. In this way, we will ensure that the people who have to tell us the most about it can participate in the decision on the use of the money. I think that's very good. Let us wait and see what exactly that does. But an emergency fund that everyone can call on, and which we can't then see if it's helping at all, doesn't seem right to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u177	Summer's coming. That's always a time of understaffing because people are on vacation, and you could really do something. The Secretary of State says it all works with client councils and works councils. I wish! It is precisely with these large institutions that you can see that they are incorporated by the drivers in advertising leaflets rather than real contact with the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u178	I disagree with Mrs Leijten. Where that is at issue, of course, that is wrong, but I am glad to see that the client councils are stirring more and more, becoming more professional and offering more and more counter-play against drivers. The same applies to employee representatives, works councils. That's the system that has to work and in which I have faith. Mrs Bergkamp asked a number of questions about the list process. How careful is that? I have just explained what the procedure has been. On the one hand, the results of the inspection, on the other hand, the analysis of reports, incidents, calamities and civil reports. All this led to the assessment of the inspection: on 15 but this is our categorization. Following a question from the Chamber, this has also been made public. Mrs Bergkamp is, of course, right in saying that if we want to move towards structural transparency, in which it is established not just by means of 'a' study of 150 institutions, but by means of which it must be clear to each institution and every location, that it must be a structural process. In that way, you make it known in good time. Moreover, as far as inspection reports are concerned, they are on the website of the inspection. They were already there. They are now, of course, more classified. Mrs Bergkamp is right that when we work on the structural side, so working on structural transparency, there must of course be a cycle that everyone understands. Not only should the judgment be transparent, but also the way in which that judgment has been reached. That is why I think it is so important that we have this one measuring bar, which everyone says: these are the standards of responsible care that everyone can use, the inspection, the clients, the care buyers. They can all say: these are the standards of good care. We've been asked if the data is out of date. That's a bit of a similar question. Part of it is and part of it is not the case. If you choose a stand, a number of things will always happen afterwards. This was also indicated by the inspection when the list was presented. She said that it was about the state of 15 March and that efforts could then have been made by the institutions which have led to improvements. This will therefore be addressed in the regular inspection mechanism and become visible. That's the downside of a stand. At the same time, I think it is very good that the inspection at a certain date, 15 March, says: these are the results we see; we make a risk analysis based on inspections, calamities and notifications; this is our opinion. That seems extremely relevant to me. I see very good reactions to it, including from institutions that say: annoying, we see that we need to improve on a number of points, and that is what we are working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u179	I am pleased that the Secretary of State says that we need to work towards structural transparency, thus providing feedback and learning from each other. I do have a question about actualization. Of course, the Secretary of State is right that it is a stand. But there are quite a lot of conclusions to be drawn this week. I was just looking back at whether Mr Krol, who was also talking about this, would stand up. I value the fact that there will be an actualization. I think it is important to know whether there really are 11 institutions involved. I hope, of course, that there will be fewer and we will be more comfortable in the recess. I would like a reply, but I think that is what Mr Krol is going to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u180	I've already asked the inspection to let me know as soon as possible, grab him in October, from what's going on with the elf. After all, when I say that there are serious concerns about the eleven, I also want to know very quickly whether those concerns have disappeared or are disappearing. If that is not the case, we need to take further far-reaching measures. I expect the inspection to be able to report that to me in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u181	Very briefly. Good thing we get a complete overview in October. But I would appreciate it if we could hear it if institutions were no longer covered by category 1 or category 2. It is important for the people who live there and the people who work there that this speed and openness, that transparency, can be given to the Chamber at a somewhat shorter time than October.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u182	If there is a stand, so that you say "this is the judgment of the situation as it was on March 15," you should also say: right or wrong, that's it. This is the opinion of the inspection. It has looked at the inspection results, the emergency reports and the citizens' reports, and this is her opinion. I have no reason to doubt that judgment; it is a professional judgment. On this basis, the categorization was made. Of course, this leads to action, just by means of the normal inspection procedure, i.e. through inspection reports, improvement proposals and far-reaching measures if they do not work. That's all gonna happen. If an institution has made improvements, it will know this as soon as possible and the inspection can be concluded by a formal letter which makes it clear that it has improved and nothing else is going on or that further measures need to be taken. That will be heard very soon by the institution concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u183	In the meantime, there's too much uncertainty. I repeat what Mrs Bergkamp said: is it not much wiser to send an update of that list to the Chamber much earlier? I also asked a second question. On March 15th there was already a lot known at the inspection. At what point were you informed? When did the inspection let you know?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u184	The inspection completed the inspection work on 15 March, which ran from 1 January to 15 March. The inspection was then carried out to classify the data and to look at other sources, such as calamities, notifications and incidents. On 27 June, the inspection informed me of the preliminary results of that analysis. When I got that report, I sent it right to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u185	So in the period from 15 March to 27 June, you have not heard from the inspection. Do you think that's proper from the inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u186	The inspection has, of course, kept me informed of the progress of the investigation. She said that the inspection was now closed and that she was now in the process of making a risk assessment. She then informed me when that risk assessment was nearing its completion. The inspection was closed on 15 March. During the period from 15 March to 27 June, the inspection looked at the other sources and classifications. Then she reported the results to me and I sent them to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u187	But then you already had indications that it was very wrong, but you simply fell back until those final things were there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u188	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then it would appear that this investigation has taken place instead of normal surveillance. The inspection has, of course, continued the normal monitoring work. If measures are needed in certain institutions, they will be taken. That has happened, by the way. I would like to point out that during that period there was also simply an indication given to a healthcare institution. It's just gonna happen. The examination of the results of the inspections and the way in which they should be interpreted on the basis of other sources was requested by the Court last year. That has now been delivered, in accordance with the agreements we made with the Chamber at the time. I think I have adequately answered Mrs Bergkamp's question as to whether I see that there is also a metropolitan problem. I now come to Mrs Dik-Faber's questions, in so far as they have not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u189	I see Mrs Bergkamp wants to remind you of something first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u190	Thank you for this opportunity. I had also asked whether the Secretary of State was prepared to make a concrete action plan for the quality of staff training. I know this is part of the approach, but I do not think it is very concrete. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u191	I'll do it on two lines. The first line consists of the additional resources made available. The part of the resources relating to the training and further training of staff must have the agreement of the staff themselves. That's how it's arranged. Secondly, together with education, we are looking at what should be the consequences for care training, as I have already written. Through the Health Pact, which we are carrying out together with colleagues from Education, Culture and Science, the contacts between educational institutions and healthcare providers are so close that we can make better agreements and that the care instructions are better in line with tomorrow's practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u192	That is good and good, but one of the biggest problems at the moment is whether there is sufficient skilled staff. We read that in all reports. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State to put more effort into this and really come up with an action plan for staff. I think that is also a broad wish of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u193	It depends a little on how to describe that action plan staff. On the one hand, we are now looking at how many people are being trained and what that means for the future influx into the healthcare market. That is a very important point, for which, among other things, the Healthcare Pact is intended. As I have just said, we have also provided additional resources for internal training in health care institutions. Perhaps Mrs Bergkamp will be able to indicate a little more what she means by an action plan staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u194	One of the main problems is that there are too few skilled staff or staff of a certain level, given the challenges. There is a mismatch between the developments in care and the level, experience and quality of staff. I would like to hear a little more from the Secretary of State than he is talking to OCW about the training courses. He is talking about the intervention teams, but what results are we going to achieve in the field of training? Objectives, actions and results!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u195	As far as training is concerned, we are looking at a number of aspects. We look at how many people we need every year, considering the future. The Capacity Body looks at how many people we need in healthcare and whether the training courses meet them. In addition, we have the qualitative side: we train enough for the future, we need to change curricula and what does that mean for the training and for the contacts between healthcare training and healthcare providers? It's in the Health Pact. I will inform the Chamber about the timetable and the results of the Health Pact. I think that answers Mrs Bergkamp's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u196	When can the Secretary of State inform us about this? It seems rather embarrassing to me to be standing here again in six months' time and to come up with the same problem again. This is a major problem, so I ask the Secretary of State when he can come up with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u197	I will inform the Chamber about the progress of a number of matters sometime in October. Then perhaps I can also take with me the progress of the Healthcare Pact, including the questions that have been asked about it. It may be abundant, but I can't help saying that. I have made additional funds available: 130 million in 2016 and 210 million structuralally for daily spending and training. That's a hell of a lot of money. We make agreements with healthcare institutions: what does it mean for internal training, what does it mean for the quality of employees, how do we ensure that internal staff is also re-educated, re-educated and re-educated for the future? This is really very important alongside the more structural side of care training and the Health Pact. I hope to be able to say with these two tracks that we are doing everything we can on the staff side. Mrs Dik-Faber asked how institutions themselves become transparent. That's a good point. For the short term, I have agreed that we will work with basic safety standards. As far as I am concerned, as of 2017, the key elements are transparent on ZorgkaartNederland and KiesBeter. For the longer term, I have agreed to join the personal health file, but I will not tire you of it. The positive thing is that we come up with a set of indicators of what is good care, both for clients and for inspection, for care buyers and for institutions themselves. The most important thing is that this culture of transparency is there, so that everyone knows what to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u198	Which indicators should I think about? Are they already in the inspection reports? And why doesn't the Secretary of State deal with that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u199	Partly embroider them, of course, on the criteria already used by the inspection. This isn't made up in Blaue hinein. Experience has been gained with the inspections and inspection reports. Indeed, the indicators already used by the inspection, supplemented by the indicators that everyone considers important, lead to that shared set of standards. That does not suddenly fall down, but it is also based on the experience so far. Think of medication safety, hygiene, use of the care plan and so on. You could read that in the letter I sent as an annex.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u200	These are just the indicators that the inspection in 2014 and also now said are not in order. Why are we waiting again for a new set to apply in the future? Why not act now when things are not in order? I'm gonna hang in there. It's "we're going to do this" and "we will." Do it today!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u201	Today, tomorrow and yesterday, the inspection is already monitoring on the basis of the indicators it has itself developed. I think it is very important that we also clarify the standards of responsible and safe care for everyone, because there is a lot of discussion about this in practice. Everyone has their own discussions and makes their own definitions. We really need to get rid of that. We must have clear standards whereby everyone is placed along the same measuring bar and we can see by institution and location whether or not they meet them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u202	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. We have these standards and there are inspection reports. It is not going well, however, because it is not being observed. What will the Secretary of State do now? What clues is he going to give to make sure it gets right? Because that's not the way it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u203	It's getting better. I would point out that we can say from 89 of the 150 institutions that have been taken extra seriously that the inspection can be closed because the results have been achieved in such a way that they comply with the standards laid down for that purpose. The inspection then selects those institutions which do not yet meet the standards, which are concerned or which are seriously concerned. Further measures are being taken. If they do not have sufficient results, more far-reaching measures will be taken. Yesterday, today and tomorrow, we are taking these measures based on the standards of inspection. What I have said is that it is very important that these standards of inspection plus the standards that come from science, from client organisations or from others are unambiguous to everyone, so that there is never again any discussion about which standards are actually used. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked what happened to coaching on the job. In the use of the additional resources for the promotion of expertise, it was explicitly stated that these funds could be used for team learning and reflection at the workplace, as Mrs Dik-Faber asked in her motion. In addition, fortunately, we see more and more that further training is not offered as a classroom, but by showing the good example at the workshop itself, so indeed by coaching on the job. Mr Van der Staaij asked a very fundamental question, but I am waiting for Mrs Dik-Faber to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u204	I would like to come back to the most important part of my contribution, namely the question of who is our concern. I would very much like clients, residents of nursing homes, with their caregivers and also nurses to get care back. I think it's the only way to do that... is to strengthen their control. I have heard the Secretary of State say a few times in this debate that client councils and employee representatives will be involved. I'm okay with that. When I put the thermometer in the nursing homes and hear stories, however, my conclusion is that this is still happening very slowly. The cover we both want so badly is just not yet made. What can we do about it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u205	We can show you how well it works. The first part of the quality programme is simply to show very concrete good examples of what is happening within institutions. I call coaching on the job, with which there are very good experiences. We have to show it to everyone. That's what's gonna happen. Each institution is looked at. Some institutions do coaching on the job, others do far-reaching experiments with low-level care and other quality experiments take place. I think the only way to get this clear is to show how it works and that it works so that others are convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u206	The Minister of VWS is working on a bill to strengthen the position of client councils, partly on the basis of an initiative of my group. However, that has not yet entered into force. I hope the bill will change a lot. In fact, the same applies to this issue as to the other: we are also simply dealing with cultural problems. There are employees who do not feel taken seriously by the board and who have to fight against the administrative culture in their organisation. There are clients who have to deal with a client council that is not yet too professional. It's better, but not all client councils operate equally professionally. The amendment proposed by the Secretary of State, namely to learn from each other, is good, but it is going too slowly. What more push can we give to this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u207	I think by just showing how it works and that it works and convincing others intrinsically. We can show everyone what the results of coaching on the job are. They are sometimes very beautiful; I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. We can show them and tell them. We cannot impose it in the sense of: do coaching on the job. People have to be intrinsically convinced of that. Mr Van der Staaij asked what failure and success factors are for quality. Why do some providers have good financial results and good quality and others don't? I sent a report to the Chamber in 2015 from Gupta Strategists. Gupta has done research into the relationship between, to put it simply, good business management and quality. The success factors come from this: an involved driver who pays attention to quality, business management and the workplace, a good vision that is lived and lived through throughout the organisation, information about processes, where medication safety is a very important issue but also other quality aspects, and a good mix of staff who manage their profession and have space to carry it out. They seem to be open doors, but the leadership side, that administrative side, that attention to the workplace and that attention to quality in the institution are critical success factors in the light of the question, which has already been discussed today, how we are going to learn from this. Mr Potters has asked how it is going to be done; I am simply translating his question. I asked the inspection to let me know as soon as possible whether her concerns about these 11 institutions can be removed and whether they will be gone as well. The inspection indicated that it would be able to update in October. Then I assume that the institutions themselves have ensured, for example, that medication safety is in order or that other measures have been taken. So I want it not only to be in the picture, but also to have the IGZ intervene and intervene where necessary to ensure that we no longer have any problems with medication safety. We have talked enough about closing or improving. I would like to take a look at Mr Potters' view of whether he agrees with me. I don't think that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u208	It's always difficult: when you get into such a debate, you get into technology very quickly. It is very important that the people who may still be watching at this time also have clarity about what is going to happen. I have asked the Secretary of State to at least get medical safety in order before the end of the summer at the eleven, but in fact at all the institutions in categories 1 and 2. This means that, as far as I am concerned, the inspection is allowed to intervene, to close an institution, to replace a board, to remove the whole set of instruments. If the Secretary of State considers that the inspection does not fulfil its role properly, then the law allows him, as we have just seen, to give that indication himself, if necessary. I want that clarity at the end of the debate. I do not want to say 'with peace of mind' because I am very shocked by this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u209	I also believe that medication safety should be put in place as soon as possible. If I get the update of the inspection in October, I assume that it will be able to tell me that it has been put right by the efforts of the institutions themselves or by other measures taken by anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u210	That last sentence, "I hear in October," stirs me up again. It's not about a week or a month, but at the end of the summer it has to be really clear. If, in the meantime, the Secretary of State has signals that the inspection is not acting properly or that institutions are lagging behind, then I want him to intervene, that in the summer we may be informed that management has been replaced, that if necessary an institution has been closed or that a management has been replaced. In short, before October, we must be able to say that medication safety is now in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u211	I assume that Mr Potters, too, is not about the cure, but about achieving the objective of getting medicine safety in order. So I agree with him: either the institution itself must have been able to put it in order, or there are other measures taken by the inspection or by me to ensure that it is in order. I now come to Mrs Voortman's questions. She said that the 500 million involved was the removal of a reversal, so that the money would remain in the care. There are a few ways we can control those resources. That's what's happening now. I have just told you what direction it will take if additional resources are made available for daily spending and training. In addition, care agencies are increasingly calling for the funds provided to be made available to institutions that perform well. That is the subject of the debate on the quality of the institution. The Court has also received a letter asking whether the financing of institutions should not be filled in in another way. The Chamber has received a letter from me about the personal funding in which we actually put even more control in the hands of the clients themselves. So we are not asking for this to go through the care offices, which also have quality concepts, but to do experiments with personal funding, where the steering wheel is much more in the hands of the client himself. Once we see that this way quality is achieved by the eyes of the clients themselves, we are indeed a step further to achieve good performance. Then I come to Mrs Voortman's question about the Top Income Standards Act (WNT). We don't have the standards from the WNT for nothing. Many drivers were already in an institution before the WNT was introduced. A transitional regime has been established in this Chamber. As the Chamber knows, it is supervised, inter alia, by the CIB. Some drivers have a transitional period. If income does not comply with the law, it is maintained. Mrs. Voortman asked me what bad performance is. Does that have to do with the size, with the finances? How would I explain that? In reply to Mr Van der Staaij's questions, I have just said that. On the one hand, it is a good management and a good vision, in short: good leadership. On the other hand, it's about space for professionals. They have to listen to clients and their relatives. The report shows that the whole picture has to be correct. The building must be right, the management must be right, and there must be an eye for clients and relatives. That's why I said that this is not a quick fix or "a screw you can turn on and then it's good." A very important factor is whether management is able to listen to clients with knowledge of the workplace and to put very good policy into the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u212	I fully agree with the Secretary of State that this is a multitude of factors. I'll table a motion on that later. But does the Secretary of State recognise that one of the factors is indeed the amount of money that the Cabinet makes available for this purpose? If the cabinet did not agree, the 500 million cut would not have had to be reversed either. Does the Secretary of State therefore recognise that the choices of the cabinet do indeed play a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u213	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u214	I'm glad the Secretary of State recognizes that. Unfortunately, I missed that recognition at the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u215	Then I come to the question of whether the judgment of clients is taken into account in the inspection judgment. Yes, the inspection always does. The inspection therefore certainly takes into account whether clients are satisfied or dissatisfied. In terms of transparency, we need to make client judgements visible and transparent in a more structural sense, for example on healthcarekaartnederland.nl. I think it is very important that we not only have objective criteria about care, quality and money, but that we also include the judgement of the clients themselves in the overall quality assessment. Mrs Keijzer has asked if the glass is half full or half empty. That is also a question in my opinion about the functioning of the sector. The total sector has 750 institutions. We have an eye for a number of risk settings. We have strengthened supervision of 38 institutions and we have concerns about 11; so my judgment is a little double. When you look at the sector as a whole, you say: it's good performance. At the same time, however, you must be very dissatisfied with where things are not going well. Those two realities are just there. In general, things are going well and well, but at the same time we need to be very sharp where things are not going well. That is exactly why we are creating this transparency with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u216	The Secretary of State now brings it down to 150, to 38, to 11 and perhaps even less where it is not in order. How does he look at the sentence that I have read a few times, namely that the problem is not new and not just typical of the 150 nursing establishments tested? In other words, it is a general picture of the inspection that, when it comes, advice is given and improvements are made, and then it falls again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u217	I have just tried to answer that. That is worrying, because I do not think it is desirable that we should be in a situation where some institutions only perform well if there is very heavy supervision every time. It shouldn't collapse again. In these cases, you must always assess whether you are dealing with a situation in which the institution does not perform well enough in structural terms, in which it does not have its own powers of improvement and you also have to take other measures. However, I would point out that, as you can see in other sectors, sometimes very intensive monitoring is necessary for a long time in order to get and maintain the performance of institutions above the minimum level. That every time I fall back, I find worrying. That is why we say: sometimes supervision is no longer enough and we also have to look at other measures to ensure that the situation is brought about in a structural manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u218	Could it also be because the health care institutions in question know that the ultimate sanction is to talk endlessly and never bite?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u219	Perhaps, if that were the case, but I do not think that this is the case, given the number of measures taken in the last period: there is sometimes increased monitoring, sometimes there are indications and in one case there is much further action, which is actually being taken. As part of the whole approach, Mrs Keijzer is right in saying that the third point is to strengthen supervision, to make it visible where it is not going well and to intervene. That's really part of the approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u220	Mrs Keijzer, your sixth interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u221	Sharp surveillance and then intervention. But you have to. I don't see the Secretary of State doing that in this whole debate. Or at least he needs to line up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u222	I want the instruments we have for this to be properly exploited in the situations where this is necessary. It's far too easy to keep a general story about that. I believe that it is necessary to make very visible where good work is being done and where good work is not being done. If it is visible where it is not good, action must be taken. We have talked extensively about the range of measures that can then be applied. We'll apply it when we need to. I would like to take a quick look at whether I have already had some of Mr Krol's points of 50PLUS. I think we have already said enough about the list and the intervention. I think I have already answered his question about training. Indeed, we must also look at the training courses to meet tomorrow's demand for care. The main profession is the caregivers. Within this occupational group there is an increasing level of training towards a level for which people also need to be retrained and retrained. In reply to Mrs Bergkamp's questions, I have already indicated the two ways in which we are working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u223	I had another question about the intervention teams. What powers does such a team have? Can I see a team like that as some kind of curator who comes in and can really put things in order in a short period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u224	That could be possible, but it could also be possible. I said that even if the supervisory instruments are inadequate, we can agree with the health insurance companies on what it means for the procurement policy, or that we can agree with the Healthcare Authority on how budgets and prices are to be looked at, or that we can agree with municipalities on what things are to be done about, for example, the relocation of buildings. It is the involvement of those who also have something to say in the structural solution of that issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u225	I welcome the announcement that we may indeed see it as a kind of curator. I also want to know if teams have already started working.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u226	No, I wrote in the letter that we're gonna do this. I believe that a first meeting of such a team will take place on Monday. Mr Krol asked me if I was satisfied with the action of the IGZ. The IGZ did what we asked as a chamber. At the time, I announced that the inspection was looking at the 150 institutions that were subject to enhanced supervision. We have asked the IGZ to complete that picture and to indicate what the verdict is on it. That's what happened. At the request of the Chamber, I made that classification visible, which led, among other things, to this debate. Let me look at Mrs Agema's question. She asked a challenging question as to whether proper care for the inspection is important only on paper or in reality should be visible in well-being. In the debate on what is good care, we have always said that basic care must be well in order. This means that we are formulating the standards of good basic care with each other. Quality of life, however, is it good in the nursing home? Are there any clients being listened to? Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. In its supervision, the inspection not only looks at the basic care side, but also, above all, whether there is sufficient attention to the quality of life in an institution. What do residents and their relatives think? The Court has been able to read in the supervisory framework that this will be an important second pillar in the instruments. In the quality standards we will indicate those two elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u227	Yes, "becomes," because if we see this comparative study again, all you have is the paper reality. What is the value of yet another comparative study if the quality of life does not come back at all? How is it that the inspection received half the extra budget in 2012 and apparently continued to work according to the old method?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u228	No, she doesn't work according to the old M.O. In the quality framework I have sent along, Mrs Agema has been able to see that this shift is taking place. We are not just looking at basic care, which needs to be in order and for which we are developing high standards. We have had a debate on this. We are also looking at quality of life, and Mrs Agema quite rightly calls it "loveful care"................................................................................................................................................................................................ You can't see that on paper. That's why you need to talk to people. You need to sit in the care rooms and talk to relatives for that. You have to collect the judgment through the eyes of clients and then come to a final judgment. So it is not just the technical side, which must be in order, but also the 'quality of life' side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u229	But this comparative study has that particular technical aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u230	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u231	How is it possible, for example, that Humanitas Foundation, which has introduced the yes culture, belongs to the eleven worst performing institutions? It's special when you talk to residents about it. It is far from everywhere that, in principle, it is said yes at every request. As a result, well-being is increasing enormously. How does the Secretary of State explain that Humanitas is with the elf?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u232	The uncomfortable answer is that it's both true. There is an institution that pays a lot of attention to residents and to the yes culture and that ensures that people listen carefully to what they want. It is fantastic that this is then realized. At the same time, it is important to look at other issues, such as medication safety. You actually want an institution to take care of both. The basic care must be in order. It must be safe everywhere! At the same time, attention should be paid to clients in the organisation. Maybe Humanitas is a fine example that of these two elements sometimes one or the other element can have a decisive meaning, but that ultimately it is important that they both have to be good. I certainly agree with Mrs Agema. We have now focused on basic safety, that was the question, but it is about the whole thing. That determines the quality of the institution. Mr President, at least I have tried to reply in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u233	Mrs. Keijzer, with your seventh interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for counting. I have one more question that hasn't been answered. Who's on the intervention team? Do residents and their families and employees get consent to the interventions that are ultimately ordered by the intervention team?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u235	I assume that the intervention team will take action when something has been found that we can no longer tackle with normal supervision and other improvement measures. Then we must intervene with such an intervention team. Then, of course, there will also be discussions with clients and residents to see if the measures are appropriate. However, the residents will not be on the intervention team. Residents and clients should be involved in the measures taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u236	Then who's in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u237	I indicated in my letter that the team will for the time being consist of the relevant municipalities, the relevant healthcare offices and the Dutch Healthcare Authority, in cooperation with the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u238	In the last six months 150 institutions have been closely monitored. This has led to this report and to the observation that institutions as a whole do not meet the requirements for quality and safety. That's really different from what happened in the past. If it was said at the time that a location was not good, the institution could say: but I also have good locations, so I'm still doing very well. No, the inspection has now said: a few locations not good, then not good at all. That's a really new step. And now there are seven of the eleven institutions that are also used as an example for the sector. Can the Secretary of State here promise they'll go out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u239	Institutions cannot be used as an example for the sector if they are not examples. I've indicated how that went. Institutions have been invited to participate in quality improvement programmes. That could be any institution. This led to a contribution to a quality improvement on certain parts. This is without prejudice to the continued supervision of all institutions. If that is the case and we are scratching behind the ears because there is no example or because there is no example in other respects, then of course we should look at it in consultation with the institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u240	We should not just look at that; I think we should just draw a line here. The idea of the Secretary of State with Dignity and pride was that examples would arise. Those examples serve precisely for the laggards. Something's obviously gone wrong here. An institution cannot and cannot be on one list, and on the other. I mentioned the cynicism of employees. They read in the paper that they work at an institution that apparently isn't good. They get the feeling they're failing themselves; that's really happening. Then they see a driver showing off: we participate in Dignity and pride. You can't do that anymore. So let's agree here that those seven and those two in the other category of "Dignity" no longer participate in Dignity and pride and, above all, learn from Dignity and pride. They should only be concerned, not with external fringes and not with feathers that do not belong to the institution, but simply with improving one's own institution. Then I think that's a good outcome tonight. So we need to get those nine out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u241	I told you, I'll look into that. I will base myself on the assessment of the inspection on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u242	I have one specific question on a question from Mrs Keijzer. I was a little shocked that the intervention team didn't have any professionals at all, so people with nursing experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u243	Where necessary, they will be added. I just indicated what the start is. In that situation where normal supervision is inadequate and the institution's own capacity for improvement is also inadequate, we will first of all consider whether there are other causes. Mrs Bergkamp herself said that there might be other causes, which we should also include in the consideration in order to find a solution. That could be the city, and that could be the purchase. It may also be the Dutch Healthcare Authority, but interventions in institutions will obviously involve people who know things. I very much agree with Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u244	Thank you very much. This is the end of the first term. We shall continue with the second term on the side of the Chamber. You have a third of the speaking time in the first term. This means one minute and twenty seconds, including reading any motions. It's now 00:45, so I'm asking you for some self-regulation in interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u245	Mr. Chairman. We want to get out of the discussion about the list that scared us last Monday. Tonight, we've made a lot of announcements. I want us to be able to conclude this evening that after the summer these eleven institutions will no longer be on the list of eleven, that we will no longer have to worry about the concern that the Secretary of State will be able to continue with the story of dignity and pride and that he will soon be able to end the inspection of the list, because it is no longer necessary. I shall table the next motion for a resolution to that effect. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the need for transparency on quality of care in long-term care;]] [[noting that there is also a need to exchange knowledge and expertise and this can contribute to improving the quality of care;]] [[noting the need to create a culture of long-term care in which health care institutions must also be able to say that they are not doing well with the quality of care in their institution;]] [[Whereas an intervention team is deployed at 11 institutions where the quality of care is not in order;]] [[calls on the Government to also deploy the intervention team to institutions that themselves state that they are stuck in improving quality in their institutions and to support them in improving care in these institutions and to be transparent in communication,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Volp and Mr Potters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-218]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u246	Mrs Volp says very clearly that the 11 should no longer be on the list of eleven in September. We shall then have the second part of this debate. What does it do if there is still half, one or two of them, or perhaps new ones?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u247	I've made myself clear. I don't want to see them on that list of 11 anymore. The Secretary of State has been clear about what he's going to do about it. I assume that we will not have to have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u248	That's pretty easy. We have been having this discussion for ten years, Mrs Volp. This is your first debate in the Chamber about the nursing homes. I thought you could've looked into it. You would have seen that we have been having this debate for ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u249	Would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u250	Mr President, what is Mrs Volp doing, logically, to be on the list of eleven, or eight of them, or eleven others, in September? Does the Secretary of State leave, or do we see barking dogs that don't bite?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u251	We now have a debate on the IGZ's final report. We're very concerned. That is what we have said. I have heard that the Secretary of State shares this concern and takes action on this point. I want those 11 off the list by September. Mrs Agema does not agree with that, but we will see each other again in September. This is indeed my first debate on this subject. I hope it will be the last debate on this eleven right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u252	Mr. Chairman. The big problem is that people spend their last days in solitude, while that could also happen in warmth and security, and that there are drivers who have known for years that this is happening, but do not solve it. They ride around in fat cars, have big salaries and sit at a head office somewhere on the Zuidas, far away from the nursing home residents who have to do it at night with one staff member out of 60 people. The fact that this exists tonight has been mentioned as failure by the Secretary of State. In the event of failure of government, you must act. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been talk for years about the poor quality of care in nursing homes and that the Health Inspectorate now confirms this and has published a list of organisations that do not provide sufficient quality care;]] [[noting that there is a lack of governance if there is no structural quality and safety in a care establishment;]] [[noting that, under the Quality Act, the Minister has the power to give an indication of the replacement of a non-functioning driver;]] [[calls on the government, directors of health care institutions who still do not offer quality and safety after the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-219]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u253	We have to do something now. We shouldn't wait. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there have been long-standing signs of problems in the quality and safety of care in a large number of nursing homes;]] [[noting that the inspection confirms these signals;]] [[considers that sufficient staff is crucial for improving the quality and safety of care;]] [[noting that it is precisely care staff who are barely able to cope with the workload;]] [[calls on the Government to set up immediately an emergency fund of 100 million to which caregivers can call for additional colleagues when understaffing is involved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-220]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u254	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his input. The key question is how to raise the quality of nursing homes where necessary. I believe that this debate has led to a tightening-up, but the most important thing is, of course, its guarantee. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that older people live at home for longer periods and only move to a nursing home at a later stage, increasing the complexity of care demand in nursing homes;]] [[Whereas there appears to be a mismatch between the level of nurses and the necessary expertise for the increased demand for care;]] [[considers that this is undesirable and unnecessary for unsafe situations;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a concrete action plan for nursing home care staff in consultation with ActiZ, V&VN and, where appropriate, other organisations and the Chamber in October 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Voortman, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-221]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u255	Can I say one more thing about this motion? I want to hold the motion because the Secretary of State has indicated that he will return to it in October. But since it is such an important subject for us, we would like to table the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u256	At the request of Mrs Bergkamp, I propose her motion (31765, No. 221). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u257	We should not discuss how the list was drawn up or procedures, but we should talk about its content. I would like to ask whether D66 believes that the biggest problem identified, the poor quality in nursing homes, should be put on the board of the staff. Is that the intention of this motion? I hope that's not the conclusion tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u258	Mr President, please don't. No, if that's the conclusion, I say, of course not. I have indicated in my contribution that I am concerned about the drivers who do not know the workplace. I've been worried about the problems of nursing homes in the big cities. I have indicated that the clients and patients who come into nursing homes are increasingly in need of more complex care and that there is not always a match with the staff. This isn't something I made up, it's what the inspection indicates. That is what we must invest in. That's the plea I wanted to make tonight. So no, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u259	If we were talking about major problems, it has happened too often in recent years that it shifted to implementation. Of course, we need to see if that is going well, but we also need to address the core. I'm glad D66 was able to complement that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u260	Yes, it is not just about the other things that I have just indicated, but also about good and sufficiently qualified staff. Along with Mrs Agema, I shall table another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the review framework of the Health Inspectorate (hereinafter referred to as the IGZ) for nursing home care focuses too much on medical and qualitative criteria;]] [[considers that the IGZ can only shape the supervision of nursing homes by engaging with clients, family and professionals on the ground;]] [[calls on the government to broaden the requirements now imposed by IGZ on nursing homes in such a way that, in addition to the current requirements, there is also a focus on practice and this is taken into account in the assessment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-222]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u261	Mr. Chairman. The quality of nursing care keeps us all busy. I think it takes three things to improve that quality. Firstly, transparency must become structural. I would like institutions not to keep mistakes internal, but to place them on the website and say what they want to learn from it. Making a mistake is not good, but it is much worse if you are not transparent about it and do not want to learn from it. Secondly, client councils and employee representatives need to be strengthened. Thirdly, it concerns the importance of basic indicators. There are indicators of inspection, there are indicators of family et cetera. In the end, it is not about indicators of medical care, but about the broad indicators, about the quality of life. The motion tabled on this subject has the warm sympathy of my group. I don't have any motions of my own. My name is, however, under some other motions which will be tabled in the course of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u262	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I shall confine myself to tabling a motion concerning the role of the supervisory boards. We have talked a great deal about the driver and what he is expected to do, because there is a very important responsibility here, but there is also something to gain from a combination of external and internal supervision. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Supervisory Board, as an internal supervisor, should ensure the quality and safety of care and compliance with laws and regulations of a healthcare provider;]] [[Whereas it can significantly strengthen the information position and supervisory function of the Supervisory Board if the IGZ and the NZa as external supervisors inform the Board by default of identified deficiencies within the institution, but this is not yet the standard practice;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the IGZ and the NZa provide standard information to the Supervisory Board in the event of serious deficiencies in the quality and safety of care, and on the progress made in subsequent improvements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-223]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u263	Mr. Chairman. Today we have discussed in detail what is not going well in the nursing homes. I think that's good. Of course, there are some good examples, the Secretary of State also pointed to this, but it is also good to name the rotten apples here and to address the directors. I am shocked and still a little angry that it is not possible to move quickly into that. Part of it is understandable, but part of it is also a matter of perseverance. I am glad that the role of the inspection has been clarified. The inspection has an escalation ladder. The Secretary of State has indicated that, on the basis of the Decision, he has the opportunity to intervene himself. Very good. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that vulnerable people and their relatives should be able to assume that care in nursing homes is good quality and safe;]] [[Considering that the report of the Health Inspectorate shows that in at least the nursing homes in categories 1 and 2 there are major concerns about the extent to which they can cope with the complex need for care;]] [[considers that the fear of vulnerable people and their relatives about safety in nursing homes should be removed as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in any event, the medication safety in the weakest nursing homes is in order before the end of this summer;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to improve the quality of nursing homes in a structural manner and to inform the Chamber of the progress by the end of the summer and thereafter annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Potters, Mr Volp and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-224]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u264	Mr Potters is pleased that there is now clarity about the Secretary of State's enforcement instruments. He actually had that clarity on Monday, because he was already arguing for closure if it did not work out. In fact, he wanted to close all these institutions, even though he later nuanced them. Do I now understand from the motion that the VVD is satisfied when the medication safety is in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u265	Absolutely not. I would have preferred us to have the medicine safety at the 38 institutions tomorrow and certainly at the 11 in order. I think it's a good thing that we'll at least have the medication safety in place by the end of the summer. That is why we have tabled this motion. Of course I'm not satisfied with medication safety. I'm still worried about it. It's a good thing we're trying to take those concerns away as soon as possible. It is therefore also good that we have had this debate, because it will enable us to ensure that these concerns are removed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u266	Why, then, is this motion not widely worded, namely that it should be in order at the end of the summer at all the points on which the inspection took place? That seems to me to be more appropriate to the tone and words Mr Potters used earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u267	I'd really like that. I would very much like to see all 150 institutions, especially 38 and 11, having 100% security in all areas. I'd love to, but let's start with medication safety first. That is where the inspection found the most serious shortcomings. For example, it noted that in 48% of the cases medication safety was initially not in order. I think that is the most important point, but I share the CDA's view that we really need to take further steps on the other points. Let us start with medication safety and then take further steps for safety in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u268	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I shall put forward my two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the list of 150 nursing homes is based on data known to the Health Care Inspectorate (IGZ) on 15 March 2016;]] [[considers that it is desirable that it be publicly available which reports and letters are known to the IGZ;]] [[invites the Secretary of State to instruct IGZ to update this information on a permanent basis and to publish it directly on the IGZ website,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-225]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u269	I really have a question, because what does this motion actually differ from my adopted motion of November 2014? It also states that inspection reports should always be made public as soon as possible. That motion was adopted by the entire Chamber with the exception of Mr Bontes and Mr Van Klaveren!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u270	I haven't seen it actually happen, but it's imperative that it happens. That is why I have retabled this motion and I hope that Mrs Leijten will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u271	I think it's really crazy to retable motions that have been passed. I think it's really weird that you don't choose to reschedule the signature of your motion. After the summer, we're going to deal with the bill that was made, among other things, on my motion. Let's wait for that; that's so neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u272	I can tell Mrs Leijten that it was absolutely not in my mind that this motion had already been tabled. I found it very urgent that this motion should be tabled. If I had known this, I would have liked to have done it with Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u273	I'm also under the motion. I have put my name underneath it, and I ask Mr Krol whether that is the intention because it is a permanent update. I think this is important, because many letters have now come out with changes to the inspection reports. I would very much like those letters to be on the website too, because then you can always see what the final judgment is. This addition was a reason for me to sign the motion. I think it's really something new.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u274	That still seems to me to be of added value. I'll continue with the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas intervention teams are used to improve the quality of poorly performing nursing homes;]] [[Whereas these teams can only be effective if they have full operational powers;]] [[calls on the Government to establish these powers as such;]] [[also invites the Government to report to the Court on the results of the intervention teams on a quarterly basis in the coming year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-226]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u275	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas from 2017 onwards, the performance of a nursing home by location shall be made public;]] [[considers that not only the score on quality indicators, but also the assessment of current residents and their relatives is important for a good choice of care facility and location;]] [[calls on the Government to make publicly available information on the satisfaction of nursing home residents and their relatives, in the context of quality information,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research carried out by the Health Inspectorate shows that there are significant differences in the quality of care in nursing homes;]] [[Whereas the financial position of health care institutions can be an important factor in the quality of care they can provide;]] [[calls on the Government to examine possible explanations for the difference in quality, taking into account at least the role of the institution's financial situation, the number of locations and the share of overhead in the workforce,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-227]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-228]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u276	Then I have one more question. The Secretary of State sent a press release entitled "Improve or Close" two days ago. That sounded very firm, and I complimented him for that in the first place. But during the debate, the Secretary of State became a little less firm. Then he talked about closing in the extreme, and even that followed a lot of ifs and buts. Can the Secretary of State explain what he means by "at the very least"? What difference does that make with the use of the instruments available to this Secretary of State for as long as he has this job? If he's not going to use it until now, when he's had it all along, it's very late. If he's been using those instruments all this time, I'd like to hear what else he's gonna do. The firm tone of the Secretary of State the day before yesterday obliges him to do more than has happened in the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u277	Mr. Chairman. Do children of residents of nursing homes and involved employees now take hope from this debate, hope that something concrete will be changed by the Secretary of State? I fear with great fear. The inspection report is not only critical of the 150 institutions that visited the inspection. To pag. 20 states I have read it several times before that organisations take action and use quality improvements in a relatively short period of time, but that then attention falls and improvements are not kept. This applies not only to the 150 institutions visited, but it is wider. I find that worrying, very worrying. The Secretary of State started off impressively last Monday, so did the two coalition parties. Unfortunately, it was a debate as we often do: many policy ideas. The Secretary of State explains his plans again: we are going to do this, we are going to do that, we will do this, we will do that. It's almost 1.10 hours by now. We meet again in the margins of the night about failing care and our most vulnerable elderly. I find that regrettable. But more importantly, what does that say? I don't have any motions. In my view, there are sufficient criteria to ensure that care can be brought to a civilised and warm level if institutions stick to it. It now comes to executing and maintaining. I therefore fully endorse Mrs Voortman's last words on this subject, as I have also spoken extensively in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u278	Mr. Chairman. In response to the serious competitions of the inspection last Monday, Secretary of State Van Rijn put the fuse in the powder keg. He was so sure. "Great measures are not shy," he said, "the rotten apples need to come out and bad nursing homes just have to close." Two days later it appears that seven of the eleven institutions are also his leaders. The tone of the Secretary of State in the debate has thus turned. I suggested that at least notorious dysfunctional managers should just be dismissed, but Secretary of State Van Rijn said he couldn't do that at all. There was an interruption debate and in the end he turned out to be able to do it. He's simply never done it before. Now we will have another improvement plan in October and, of course, the other half of this debate in September. In October, I would simply like to have a new list from the Secretary of State, the list of dysfunctional managers who have had to leave somewhere more often and who have been dismissed by the Secretary of State because he can. Then the Secretary of State really started the road up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u279	Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have been asked. Mrs Voortman asked if anything else is going to happen. It is not for nothing that we have set in motion the actions that we have launched: to improve quality, to improve standards and then to monitor them more closely. This means that, as transparency increases, we are getting a clearer picture of which institutions comply or do not comply with the standards that have been established. The result will be that we will also maintain stronger where necessary. I expect that the more we make these qualitative leaps and the clearer what the standards are, the clearer we will be able to maintain. So I expect this to be sharper in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u280	So the Secretary of State's gonna step up the instruments he already has?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u281	Yes, because I have just indicated that we have a whole range of instruments. As it becomes clearer that people do not perform or perform structurally wrongly, the instruments will also be used more sharply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u282	But then the Secretary of State could have done the same for the past four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u283	But there have also been indications given to institutions where the inspection found that it was not right. There have also been occasional patient stops to ensure that an institution improves. There are also simply institutions to which we have said: you can no longer accept patients. These instruments have therefore also been used. I predict that, as standards and requirements become more stringent, we will also be able to improve the way things are done in practice. That also gives the inspection more opportunities and evidence to intervene. I agree with what Mrs Keijzer said: it amounts to implementing and maintaining the period ahead. That's very important. We are getting more and more clear about how this process should proceed in the coming period. I'm getting to the motions. In the motion in part No. 218 the cabinet is invited to use that intervention team also with institutions that themselves state that they are stalled. I think it is right to allow institutions to volunteer to use that intervention team. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 219 calls on the government to replace directors. I think that is too general. I have already indicated in the debate that, if that is the case, an indication will be given to the inspection. Then we must tell the supervisory board to replace the driver. The government cannot, of course, replace directors. I think this is too general and it is not an end in itself either. So I'm deceiving the motion. In the motion in part No. 220 I am asked to set up an emergency fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u284	It took fifteen interruptions to get the Secretary of State to acknowledge that he can indeed replace directors. I even asked him if he thinks that not providing quality or safety to residents is a failure of government. He thinks so, but he still betrays this motion. The wording comes literally from a text by the Minister, who told the Chamber what powers it had. It delivered its opinion on 11 June 2015 in a general consultation on governance. So I don't understand why the Secretary of State is dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u285	It is not a debate on whether this can be done and whether it should be applied where it is necessary, but it is really too careless to say in general that I should replace the drivers of healthcare institutions who do not offer quality and safety after the summer. These instruments should be applied where appropriate. That must also be done carefully. This means that the instruments already in place can be applied if necessary, but in general I do not think this motion is correct. That's why I don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u286	This is really... What do you call that? The pain is in the tail. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He's from the world of care. He knows all those drivers with fat cars. He knows all the parking spaces. He knows all the people at ActiZ who fail on the board. Now he can take them down once, but he won't! Now the motion is too generic. Big words that care institutions need to be closed. Pain in people about their parents sitting there where it's not right, with employees who are extinct...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u287	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u288	But taking on drivers? Whoa, whoa, whoa, I'll hold this motion. I think we can get a majority here. If the Secretary of State doesn't want to do it, we're gonna do it. After the summer, we'll find out what's going on. I think we have a little less affinity in this Chamber with the incumbent government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u289	At the request of Mrs Leijten, I propose her motion (Doc. 219). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u290	I have just indicated that I also believe that if there is a failure in governance, drivers should be able to be dismissed. However, you cannot say in general terms: we are now going to send drivers away. If there's anything going on, you're gonna have to prove that there's a failure in governance. The power is there and is also applied when it is at issue, but you cannot generally establish the link as made in the motion. In the motion in part No. 220 the government is invited to set up an emergency fund. We have had the necessary exchange of views in the debate. Apart from the fact that the cover isn't entirely arranged, I'm not recommending the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u291	I see another interruption by Mrs Keijzer about the motion being held.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u292	If, in general, you send away drivers if there is not enough quality and safety child with the bath water, you might even throw away a child with the bath water. But if Mrs Leijten now specifies it to the health care institutions that are on the list of 11, which the Secretary of State himself said is unacceptable and which Mr Potters said should be in order after the summer, then we agree here. Then we, as politicians, will once again show the relevant care institutions that it is just done once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u293	It says "still." Mrs Leijten, would you like to say something about this? Oh, about your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u294	I am sticking to what I have to say, but I understand that Mrs Leijten has something to say about the motion in part No. 220.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u295	"No cover" is a bit bullshit. For this we have had a debate on the Spring Note. There's two billion left, and we need to get the money where it needs to be. For example, defense is being strengthened, because the cabinet feels it is necessary. There are great needs with the people who work in care. We all know that, so "no cover" can't be an argument. But we had already established that there was no will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u296	We look forward to the proposals made by Mrs Leijten when the budget is being examined. The motion in part No. 221, which calls for an action plan for nursing home care staff, has been detained pending my reporting. In the motion in part No. 222 the government is invited to set up the requirements that are now being imposed on nursing homes in such a way that the practice is taken into account. I think that is support for the policy. I therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u297	I am very pleased that the Secretary of State regards the motion by myself and Mrs Agema as a support for the policy. Is it perhaps an idea for the Secretary of State to take over this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u298	I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u299	The Secretary of State has indicated his intention to take over the motion. Does one or more members object to this? That is not the case. The motion will then no longer be a separate subject of the debate and will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u300	In the motion in part No. 223 calls for serious deficiencies in the quality and safety of care to be reported to the Supervisory Board by default. I assume that it is intended that the Supervisory Board is also informed at the same time as the Management Board. The normal course of events is, of course, that the Management Board informs the Supervisory Board, but I read the motion in such a way that in serious cases where it is clear that the Supervisory Board should know this, the Supervisory Board is also informed. If I may direct the motion in this way, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 224. Can I suggest to Mr Potters that the government be asked to ensure that IGZ ensures that medication safety is in order by the end of the summer? The government cannot, of course, take care of that itself. That is what the institutions must do. IGZ must monitor this and take action if they are insufficient. I thought we had understood each other well in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u301	I think it is fine if the Secretary of State wishes to specify who has a specific role and what responsibility. The operative part is just clear. We want this done after the summer. I don't care if the inspection takes care of it and the Secretary of State controls the inspection again. I can live with this judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u302	If I can read the operative part in this way, I consider the motion to support policy and leave it to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 225 the government is asked to update the data on a permanent basis. As usual with regard to monitoring, we will keep the assessments of the inspection as a result of the inspections carried out and the monitoring visits up-to-date each time. That doesn't apply to all the letters and everything that happens. What we are going to do is that the inspection does a number of inspections and that the reports will then be on the site. This will keep the information up-to-date. This is different from the occasional state of affairs and the state of affairs at some point, as happened, for example, on 15 March, on which we had an exchange of views in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u303	I have another question on this, partly on behalf of Mr Krol. We don't care about those reports, because they're on them. That is Mrs Leijten's motion. It's about what happens when there's an actualization. Institutions now sometimes indicate that they are no longer under supervision and that there is improvement. We would like this update to be made available on the site, and that information should be updated permanently. I imagine the Secretary of State would like to discuss this issue with the IGZ to see if it is feasible to get the data more up-to-date. If that's the case, we might be able to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u304	That would help me. That sounds good to me. After all, we can only do this update if there is also a formal completion of the inspection visit. We can't say in the meantime that we think we're gonna be okay. It couldn't be. I think it would be excellent if the proposers would continue the motion so that I can see how we can best shape it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u305	At the request of Mr Krol, I propose his motion (31765, No. 225). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u306	When can the Secretary of State come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u307	I'll take that into the October report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u308	October. We'll write that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u309	Then the motion to part No. 226 in which the government is invited to report on the results of the intervention teams on a quarterly basis next year. There is an agreement that every six months will report on the progress of Dignity and pride. I propose to include it in that and I therefore advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 227 in which the government is invited to make information on quality information explicitly available to the public about the satisfaction of nursing home residents and their relatives. I consider that to be a policy support and leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. We will continue to shape this with ZorgmapNetherlands. Then we have the motion in part no. 228, inviting the government to examine possible explanations for the difference in quality, such as the financial situation, location and share of overhead in the workforce. I think it is important to study this further and to see whether good analyses can be drawn from it. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u310	I'm gonna pass my motion to piece number one. 226 likes to change to "every quarter" with pleasure in "every six months." In the end, it's only twice in one year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u311	Then I read her in such a way that we take this into account in the reporting we have already agreed on about Dignity and pride.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u312	The Krol motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas intervention teams are used to improve the quality of poorly performing nursing homes;]] [[Whereas these teams can only be effective if they have full operational powers;]] [[calls on the Government to establish these powers as such;]] [[invites the Government to report to the Chamber on the results of the intervention teams each year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 226 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u313	If I take her into the report on Dignity and pride, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u314	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-15.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, then we have come to the end of this debate. Thank you all very much for their input, the Secretary of State for his reply and all other people for their interest and patience. I wish everyone a good night. See you in the morning at 9:00.
