ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u1	This morning, the Permanent Committee on Foreign Affairs already held consultations on the Rule 100 letter from the Cabinet. This plenary debate will be completed in a single period. Spokesmen are therefore expected to submit any motions during this period. I propose a maximum speaking time of five minutes per group. Following the answer given by the ministers, I give the spokesmen a brief opportunity to give their final opinion on the Article 100 letter. I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. The first-term debate on the Dutch commitment to the fight against ISIS, which we conducted this morning, was actually a very good reflection of the Article 100 letter. It was mainly about what it should not be about in an Article 100 letter: it was about the humanitarian situation in Aleppo, about the horrible barrel bombs of the Assad regime, about increasing sanctions against Russia and about the need for food drips. I could not have predicted beforehand that the fear of collateral damage in this Parliament would be so great that it would make food drips impossible because there might be deaths. I cannot really explain to the people who are being starved or bombed, that we are afraid of touching them with food packages. I do not have to explain that either, because that is not what this whole Article 100 letter is about. At least, it shouldn't be about that. I say it again: the enormous humanitarian aid offered by the Netherlands is completely independent of our military commitment. I agree with the Minister for Development Cooperation. I disagree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who believes that this letter is a careful article 100 letter. The elements that come back to us in all our debates dominate the core of what the Article 100 letter should be about as far as we are concerned, and that is what the Constitution is extremely clear about, too, about our military efforts to break ISIS. That's the core and the military are the heart. Anyone who looks at how the 23 pages of this letter were built, or who was looking at this morning's speaking time, or who saw the cabinet delegation, with two soldiers and a lot of civilian people, might think that this is a new mission, a humanitarian mission. But this is not about a new mission, it is about adjusting an existing military mission. It is about shifting the scope of our F-16s to Syria and expanding the field of activity of our trainers, to bomb the supply lines of ISIS. That's exactly what the VVD has been calling for from day one of this mission. I am pleased that the Secretary of Defense has been able to respond comfortably to all our questions concerning the core of the mission, in particular the question of the possible caveats, whether the restrictions on the Rules of Engagement, other than those strictly normal and always exist, are contained in humanitarian war law. It was, it is, and it always has to be. There are no additional restrictions on our kites, they can do the same as our allies and there are no targets excluded. In addition to IED factories, command centers and training camps, if it is legally and militaryly relevant, oil installations, oil convoys and money depots can also be dealt with, on which the ISIS war machine runs. This will meet the mission's core objective of breaking ISIS. Far beyond the core of this mission is the cabinet's desire to remove feelings of injustice that this decision might bring with it, for example among Muslims, in mosques or in schools, in the context of deradicalisation. I repeat: this decision does not cause injustice, we are tackling injustice, the injustice of the caliphate of evil. We do this not only at our external borders, but also in our inner cities, for example with the policies of ministers other than those of trade union K. As far as I am concerned, we do not have to make excuses for this, but we do it with our heads high, with a straight back and the firm conviction that we want to fight for our values of freedom, brotherhood and equality, because that is what all in this Chamber share, if necessary. And if we do that, we'll do it with the men and women, the trainers and the kites on our mission. We may ask them to make the supreme sacrifice. That's why those plays and those road shows don't fit, and they don't fit any excuses, but it fits recognition for the banners of our values and the bearers of the heaviest burden in this mission, our military. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the supplementary Article 100 letter on the Dutch contribution to the fight against ISIS (27925, No. 570) is discussed about activities in the context of deradicalisation (Integral Approach Jihadism Action Programme) such as a student debate series "With Two Sizes," a school road show and a theatre project "Jihad" aimed at the cultivation of "understanding among Dutch Muslims";]] [[Considering that the Cabinet places these activities against the background of feelings of injustice which the Cabinet believes this decision may raise;]] [[Whereas the purpose of this mission is to break ISIS in Iraq and Syria, and the heart of this mission is formed by Dutch kites and trainers;]] [[calls on the government to remove these activities and transfer the funds allocated to them to home front days for military and their family members, or to veteran care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-572]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u3	Does Mr Ten Broeke of the VVD really believe that you can only break Daesh with bombs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u4	No, and I've said that here in this place over a period of 15 months, about five times. I have said this in just about all the other places where Mr Kuzu has been able to see and hear me speak about this mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr Ten Broeke then made the emotion and feelings of injustice felt by a large group of people in our society. What is his message to the people who have this feeling of injustice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u6	I don't recognize those feelings of injustice. I do come across feelings in the sense of: be careful, be careful. I get that. We should be, too. First of all, I say this to the family members of the people we send out. But we are wronging this, the injustice called ISIS, the injustice that almost made the Jezidis a footnote in history, the injustice that has driven many out of their cities. I call 100,000 Iraqis from the city of Tikrit. I mention the Kurds in Kobani. And I can go on like this for a while. That's the injustice our F-16s can help fight. Islam fundamentalism doesn't bomb you away. Islam fundamentalists, for a large part, aren't either. But if you want the appeal of the caliphate to be fundamentally addressed, and that's what we want; we want to break ISIS, then you're going to have to start losing ISIS territory instead of letting it win. And that's what you do with air strikes, among other things. They are also successful, as we see in Iraq and fortunately increasingly so in Syria. Fortunately, we are now going to take part in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. Each his own experience. I thought that the debate we had this morning in general consultation was an excellent one, in which all aspects were discussed as they should be. After all, you cannot look at things in isolation. That is why I thought it was a good letter, in which attention was paid to all the dimensions involved. In general this morning, we discussed the war crimes committed by the macabre duo Assad and Putin. War crimes taking place before our eyes these days at the siege of Aleppo. We have rightly paid attention to this and rightly so the Foreign Minister has also begun his involvement in this general consultation. My group very much appreciates the sharp words and the strong commitment he has put forward and which he will also put into practice in Munich over the next few days at the security conference and elsewhere. Of course, we have also considered the hyperextremism of ISIS and the threat ISIS poses to the people there, in Iraq and Syria, but also to people here and elsewhere in the world. We have jointly noted that we need to be realistic and modest about the impact of our efforts. Bombing Mr Kuzu has just said that the civil war will not end. It will not even be able to destroy, break the ideology of ISIS. But it can play a role. In view of the enormous complexity of the conflict in Syria and Iraq, which is not caught in one simple slogan, we need to make very careful considerations in order to arrive at a differentiated commitment. In addition to this morning's debate, I have three points I would like to address. The first point is the siege and the food drips. I would like to ask the Minister for Development and Foreign Trade to continue to talk internationally and in the UN about the actual structural underreporting on how many people are being besieged and about the seriousness of the situation. I also ask her to report to the Chamber in the next progress report on how this goes forward and how we can do it better so that we can actually reach those people. Secondly, the Minister of Defence has said the necessary about the efforts she will make to at least strive for as much transparency as possible on the Dutch bombings and any damage they may cause. Thank you for her commitment to make that possible in a coalition context. I would also ask her to include this in the next progress report so that we can discuss it further. The third point is that I have paid a great deal of attention to what Minister Koenders called 'third forces'. How do we prevent only ISIS and Assad? How do we ensure that there remains a viable opposition between them? Whether it's in the west or in the northeast, where the Kurds are mostly. Very much appreciate the support programmes that the Netherlands is going to set up there. That's actually pioneering work. Hopefully that will be followed internationally. My group would like this support, provided it meets strict tests, to be available to all groups, both in the west and in the north-east. Mr Voordewind will therefore later make a motion on behalf of my group. Finally. On the partial lifting of the caveats for the F-16s, specifically aimed at the supply routes from Eastern Syria to the front lines in Iraq, much has been said in recent days. I have to hear colleagues in a moment, but I have the impression that there has been more and more clarity about the frameworks that are in force and about questions like what rules we are complying with; humanitarian war law; and that the situation must be workable for the military. Hopefully this will put an end to the ambiguity that may have existed among some groups in this Chamber. With this we all agree, I think, that we must now focus our attention and concern on the military who are already on mission and are going on a mission. They should not be unclear as to what they can do within the frameworks set out in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u8	It was about those caveats, all right. Almost everything is clear about that. I will put a few more questions to the cabinet in a moment. However, Mr Servaes referred again to the partial lifting of caveats. I see him shaking no now, but he just said this. Maybe he can clarify that? He said: we talked about partial lifting. In doing so, he suggested at least, as I understand it, that he is not talking about completely lifting caveats. Caveats are limitations in the mission that are different from the limitations with which the coalition partners that carry out that mission work. Perhaps Mr Servaes can now remove the ambiguity that has arisen in my view at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u9	This surprises me, because after the letter, after the actual questions, after the briefing and after this morning's debate, Mr Knopt knows exactly what this is about. The Dutch F-16s are not used throughout Syria, but specifically in Eastern Syria, and focus on those supply routes. The cabinet also said that action should not benefit Assad and that it should become the laughing third. The cabinet has also stated that the Netherlands naturally adheres to humanitarian war law, but I do not think that we need to discuss this. So these are the frameworks; nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u10	The latter is, of course, perfectly clear. That is what the debate has been about. However, I hear that there is some light between Mr Servaes' reply and the answer from the cabinet to my question on how to interpret these caveats. Anyway, I'll hear about it in a minute. Mr Servaes is not in the chair of the decision-maker. He can only judge the decision taken by the cabinet. However, I do need to hear an answer from all three ministers to my question as to how they see it exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u11	What light does Mr Knops see? I quoted almost verbatim from the letter. He's making suggestions now. I am fine with it all, but these suggestions must be made clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mr Knops gave a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u13	It is true that what Mr Servaes says is in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u14	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u15	However, I have just heard the cabinet say something else in the debate. There they said there would be no caveats. Mr Servaes now says that the caveats are now partially lifted. I see him shaking again, but Mr Servaes has just said so. That's what the uncertainty is about. He did quote from the letter. I have just heard in the debate that there is a progressive view in the cabinet. The members of the cabinet no longer talk about partially lifting caveats. It is now said that there are no caveats, except geographical restrictions and humanitarian war law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u16	I already hear a yes outside the microphone of the members of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u17	That doesn't count, Mr Servaes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u18	However, I note in particular that the cabinet and I are very much in agreement. I regret that Mr Knops still does not have the clarity he is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u19	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u20	No, Mr Knops, you're next in line and...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr President, I believe that the reaction of the Ministers outside the microphone, which Mr Servaes has just received, was a response to my position and not to Mr Servaes' conclusion. So I understood the cabinet correctly, and Mr Servaes did not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u22	Yeah, but a reaction from the cabinet given outside the microphone doesn't count. The cabinet is supposed to be listening right now. Soon the members of the cabinet will be able to speak. Mr Van Bommel is already ready to make his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr. Chairman. The debate on Syria should focus on the humanitarian disaster that is taking place in Syria. I agree with Mr Ten Broeke; it is logical that, looking at the content of the Article 100 letter, we should pay particular attention to that humanitarian disaster in Syria. Moreover, I do not agree with him when he says that there would be no levers in the letter to address the Dutch Government, because in this letter the government makes a lot of money available and makes initiatives to try to do something in Syria. I can now tell Mr Ten Broeke that we agree on this. The situation is extremely serious. Aleppo is under siege. There are over 500 civilian deaths to regret. People are trapped like rats, nowhere to go and the border with Turkey is closed. A short-term ceasefire is actually the only way to ensure that there is not an even greater humanitarian catastrophe there. Such a ceasefire, if necessary temporarily, if necessary in a restricted area, is necessary to ensure that humanitarian aid, which also wants to provide the Netherlands, can reach the people. Is the Netherlands prepared to insist on this if it is necessary for safety? Is the Netherlands prepared to press for a full ceasefire in the negotiations with warring parties, including with foreign powers operating over Syria and thus with the Russians? The Russians operate in this area. The Netherlands must therefore be prepared to postpone air operations. I ask the Minister to respond to this, because this would, of course, make the position of the Netherlands and the coalition much more credible in the negotiations. It is difficult to ask other parties not to operate in Syria's airspace if you reserve that right yourself. So much humanitarian aid is announced in the letter, but part of it cannot reach the people who need it. Access by road and air can only be made with the consent of Assad. That's a problem. Nevertheless, every effort must be made to make this humanitarian aid possible. I'll make a motion on that in a minute. Then there is the military approach of Iraq and Syria. Islamic State has lost territory, so it is found. Area, but not her attraction. The ideology of Islamic State cannot be bombed away. Bombing drive Sunnis who live in the IS-controlled area, right into the arms of Islamic State. That observation is done. What is the reaction of the Dutch Government to this? Bombing would also have become part of the problem. Foreign warriors continue to travel to the area anyway. Estimates range from 15,000 to 25,000 international fighters. What is being done about this? And what concrete steps is being taken to prevent the financing of Islamic State? There are still a lot of oil revenues and there are still sponsors in the Gulf States. And they still get a lot of money through taxes. In addition, it may have lost ground, but IS is also moving. Islamic State is now emerging in Libya. That's how we get out of the rain. I therefore believe that Canada's position is special and deserves consideration in the Netherlands too: support for local parties who are trying to find a solution there, including using the military instrument, but not bombing themselves, because that is not the solution. External violence, the Prime Minister of Canada says, will not put an end to that civil war, quite the contrary. The peace process has been suspended until 25 February. That suspension is in favour of Assad. Former Envoy Kurpershoek wrote a very clear letter about this in NRC: Syria, Russia and Iran have their own agenda, and while the West is addressing Islamic State, Syria, Iran and Russia are addressing the internal opposition. The result of these joint air operations will soon be that the opposition has been wiped out and that Assad is once again the strong man in Syria. That can't be the intention. Assad is responsible for most of the victims in Syria. How does the Netherlands intend to prevent us from being unwittingly part of an agenda that results in this? All kinds of proposals are made concerning the Dutch position and the Dutch aid. A number of questions need to be asked. How, for example, is it prevented that arms paid by the Netherlands fall into the wrong hands? That's what happened to German weapons. How do these arms supplies relate to the European criteria for arms exports and how is expulsion between the government in Baghdad and the Kurdish regional government stopped? Much has been said about Turkey. Turkey is playing a double role. I believe that, within NATO, we should address Turkey much more strongly the fear of consultation with the Kurds in Syria, who should not be involved in the peace process, and with the Kurds in their own country. I'm gonna finish filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the warring parties in Syria, in violation of international humanitarian war law, prevent humanitarian access to different villages, cities and regions and attack aid workers;]] [[Considering that this means that large groups of innocent citizens are deprived of basic necessities including clean drinking water, food and medical assistance;]] [[calls on the government, within the coalition, to develop a strategy to enable humanitarian access to such areas, if necessary through food dripping,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Bommel, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Voordewind and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-573]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the three rulers for answering the first-term questions and the reactions to the interruptions. For the record, this is an addition to the previous Article 100 decision on the fight against IS. Of course it has been about more things, but that is the way it is going to be, and this is what the Chamber is actually being asked to give its opinion, with respect, of course, for the fact that the government has decided and has already decided to do so in accordance with Rule 100. This is an extension of the four F-16's mission by four months, after which the mission ends and the Belgians will take over from us. Although the Cabinet letter still states that the restriction on the deployment of F-16s against ISIS is partially lifted and that no actions are being carried out to benefit the Assad regime, I just heard Foreign and Defence Ministers clearly state in the debate that there will be no caveats other than geographical restrictions and, of course, humanitarian war law. I would therefore ask the rulers not to apply any restrictions other than those of the allies with whom we are working together in that area. I am asking this in particular because the Secretary of Defense has just indicated that it would be 'not obvious' to intervene in Deir el-Zour. Although I fully understand this and do not want to go into it, that is something other than to say in advance that it could not be done there. Then we are talking about a caveat. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of Defense on that point. Unit of operation requires unity of rules of engagement. After the evaluation of Kunduz, that is clear to us. There should be no caveats; meaningful additions are okay, but unnecessary restrictions are not. Moreover, I would point out that, in accordance with the Article 100 procedure, the Chamber should in any case exercise restraint when it comes to adding, for example, military resources to such a military operation. I remember the helicopters that were in Djibouti in 2001, costing EUR 25 million and never being deployed. That does not seem to be a very good example of an initiative from the Chamber. I also remember a much more recent initiative by the Chamber of Representatives, which dates back to 2014 when Chinook helicopters were added to the mission in Mali, and no one wants to lose it. Lessons learned, then. I will not mention any names, I say in the direction of Mr Ten Broeke; you can read that in the Acts. However, I think it would be a good idea to draw lessons from it as a Chamber. Since the meeting with the Turkish Prime Minister ended a bit, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister what conclusion I should draw. If he has anything relevant to say in the context of the questions I asked earlier in this debate, I invite him to reflect on them. Finally, I have a motion on the vulnerable position of Christians. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the threat, repression and persecution of Christians in Iraq and Syria has increased;]] [[Whereas Christians are a very vulnerable minority in the Middle East and may be a partner in the fight against ISIS;]] [[Whereas the government has no specific policy towards Christians in Iraq and Syria nor does it have aid programmes specifically for Christians;]] [[calls on the Government to develop specific policies with regard to Christians in Iraq and Syria in order to explore the possibilities for specific aid programmes for displaced Christians,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-574]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr. Chairman. In the fight against Islamic State, it can do better on three points. I'm gonna name them, too. Firstly, the cabinet must optimise our border surveillance to keep Islamic State out of our country. Secondly, the cabinet is rather skittish when we ask about the involvement of Islamic countries in the attacks on Islamic State. According to the Cabinet, this would already be there, but it does not clarify it at all. That's why I did some research myself. Data from the United States Central Command show the state of play on 1 February. I'd like to pass it on to the members of the Chamber. Firstly, there have been 6,723 air attacks on Islamic State in Iraq on 1 February. 99% of this was carried out by Western countries and 1% by Jordan, which stopped doing so six months ago. The attacks on Islamic State in Iraq are therefore almost exclusively the work of Western countries. What's it like in Syria? Since 1 February, the counter stands at 3.337 air attacks on Islamic State in Syria. So that is from the same sheet, because more than 94% of the attacks there have been carried out by Western countries and only a very small part by Islamic countries. If you look at the question of when the Islamic countries have actually participated, then the picture is as follows. As I said, Jordan stopped last August. The United Arab Emirates stopped in March 2015, Saudi Arabia stopped in September 2015 and Kuwait and Qatar are not participating in any bombing of Islamic State, as far as I know. What does that mean, in summary? Islamic countries hardly throw bombs on Islamic State; they throw hats at it. I believe that this is unacceptable and that the government should raise this in the coalition. Those countries can do more, and they should do so. I come to the third point that I think could be better, namely the fact that our F16s will be brought back in four months' time, while, as I know, the Chamber had previously agreed to the deployment of those F-16s until this autumn. The cabinet wants to quit in four months. I believe that the cabinet should do everything it can to keep going, especially now that Canada has announced that it will be returning its fighter jets very soon and that it will not be using them to fight against Islamic State. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Chamber had previously agreed to the deployment of Dutch fighter jets against Islamic State until this autumn;]] [[Considering that continued engagement of Dutch F-16s against Islamic State is highly desirable, partly due to the withdrawal of Canadian fighter jets;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals that will enable Dutch F-16s to deploy at least until autumn,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-575]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mr. Chairman. This morning we discussed in detail with the cabinet the supplementary letter on the anti-ISIS mission to Eastern Syria. The military core, addressing the ISIS supply routes in Eastern Syria in order to settle the fight in Iraq against ISIS, is logical and useful. ISIS is our enemy, an enemy that must be fought. At the same time, it is good that we discussed the situation in Syria this morning in the broadest sense of the word. I would like to stress this again because there seems to be a difference of opinion. We have talked about the wide-ranging political process, about the terrible bombings of the deadly duo Assad and Putin around Aleppo and about the great humanitarian needs. It is important that the Chamber should have considered this broader context. It is clear that ISIS is our enemy, but it is also important that Assad is the real problem. With regard to the ally of Assad, Russia, I am very pleased that Minister Koenders says that Russia is violating Security Council resolutions and that international law is being violated. I am pleased that this is being actively taken up by the Minister at EU and UN level. That must be done, because it is important that Putin never get the idea that the European Union is going to let this go and look the other way and that he can press through with military power in Syria. That is why I have also asked for additional sanctions. The Minister does not yet want to do so, but at least he has already said that I think it is a gain that is absolutely impossible to alleviate sanctions. I therefore urge the Minister not to exclude additional sanctions in this area against Russia as a result of Russia's action in Syria if it continues to violate UN resolutions and international law on this scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u27	I would like to return to Mr Sjoerdsma's very first point, which I believe was addressed to me. I say again here what I said to him this morning in an interrupting debate. I would like to talk to Mr Sjoerdsma about Assad and the humanitarian consequences until deep into the night, again tomorrow morning, even on Fridays and if necessary on weekends. What I am so incredibly afraid of in the past is that Mr Sjoerdsma, on my side, is the purity of Article 100. There is also a risk of mission creep. Assad is the problem, but he's not the objective of this mission. So we have to be very clear about that too. Mr Sjoerdsma suddenly called it logical that supply lines are being tackled now, but where was he in the last eight or nine months? At that time he never expressed himself in that language, when it was just as logical at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u28	Perhaps I can remind Mr Ten Broeke of what I have always said about this, in fact since the very beginning, the very first Article 100 debate, which began with the mission which took place only in Iraq, namely: firstly, this is one military stage and secondly, the door to bombing in Syria is not closed for D66. I've always repeated that. But unlike other groups, I'm not gonna sit here with a Bosatlas and make military plans and think "what exactly should happen in Syria?', "Let's create ports of refuge," "let's put military boots on the ground," "let's bomb them in Syria," without actually having a plan to follow them up. I don't like that and I don't like my role. That is why Mr Ten Broeke has not heard more from me than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u29	That's not your role either. You haven't heard that kind of plan from me either. That Bosatlas I just brought in to show that those supply lines are relevant. The point remains that you leave the door ajar. But you could have closed that crack from June last year, when that crack was closed, when the international advisor Nollkaemper indicated that those supply lines could indeed be attacked from the point of view of self-defense. Because that was your objection. It is a legitimate objection, an objection shared by almost all the political groups in this Chamber, with the exception of two, namely mine and the SGP, because we took a different position in the debate on the Davids Committee. You didn't take that position. So the question is: why not in June last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u30	I would remind Mr Ten Broeke of Mr Knops' motion. Or was it Mr. Buma's motion? It was one of two. That motion was submitted to the General Political Reviews or shortly thereafter. It called on the government to reach a decision quickly, precisely because of the purity of the role. I don't want the Chamber to suggest what to do. I would like to hear from the cabinet what the cabinet position is. We have supported this motion, but we have not made any individual proposals to bomb here. Mr Ten Broeke rightly refers to purity. He always finds me by his side when it comes to imposing restrictions. Telling military people how to do something is something I like to stay away from, also because of their own experiences in Afghanistan. I do not see these restrictions, together with colleagues Ten Broeke and Servaes and others, in any case in this letter. I am pleased with that. Mr. Chairman. After Russia, I would also like to talk briefly about the protection of the civilian population. That's a not insignificant point. We have talked almost all about this this morning: about Madaya, about 1 million people besieged and about the fact that Assad simply does not allow much-needed help to reach the places where the need is highest. Minister Ploumen has not convinced me with her objections that air assistance is simply impossible. I don't believe that. In view of the technical possibilities for such food drips, I believe that these technical difficulties can be overcome. I therefore call once again on the Minister to look very closely at this. That is why I supported Mr Van Bommel's motion. It calls on the government to take a very close look at the strategy to obtain emergency aid in besieged areas, if necessary and by air if necessary. I also ask the Minister to send the report to the Chamber on ongoing UN investigation into aerial assistance, including obstacles, risks and solutions, to the Chamber in the short term. My group supports a motion by Mr Voordewind on securing a viable opposition in Syria itself. Mr Voordewind will explain this motion in detail shortly. My group wholeheartedly supports this. My last topic in this second term is transparency. I said this morning that accountability and transparency are extremely important. It is very important for the Netherlands to report as much as possible on what it does and to account for the damage that sometimes unfortunately it does to civil objects and sometimes even to innocent citizens. I think it is important that we do more on this point, because the coalition is not clear on this point. I also think that we could do more on this point. The Minister has made a commitment, but she also said that she thinks that this is going well at the moment. I think we can do better. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there appears to be no clear line within the coalition on reporting on military deployment and on accountability of civilian casualties and civil collateral damage;]] [[Whereas greater transparency and accountability are desirable;]] [[calls on the government to commit itself to greater transparency and accountability in the international coalition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Bommel and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-576]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u31	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their detailed reply. We had a good debate this morning. The objections raised by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have been well addressed. I will come back to that. The Christian Union Group is well aware that agreeing to this motion, i.e. bombing Syria, does not directly lead to a solution to the many conflicts there. For that, we really need the political trail and Geneva. I am therefore pleased that the Northern Alliance will hopefully be involved as soon as possible. This does not solve the problem, but we do have an expensive duty to control evil wherever it occurs. ISIS is the evil of the evils, but it's not just about ISIS. We know that people are also fleeing the Assad regime, which has 250,000 deaths on its conscience. That is why we have asked the cabinet in detail about the mandate of this mission, because we would in no way want to give way to the other evil, Assad, through our contribution and bombardment. That is why I thank the rulers for the clarity they have given about the demarcation of Eastern Syria. This means that in Western Syria, where the situation is much more complicated than in Eastern Syria, we do not participate in the fight. The Minister of Defence has also given a clear answer on Jabhat al-Nusra: we will not support that Al-Qaeda-related organisation in any way from the air. I am pleased that the Secretary of Defense has left open the possibility of disarming cities humanitarianly from the air, as has happened before with Kobani. We held a wide-ranging debate in the Chamber on whether or not we would support it politically. I am pleased that the Minister has at least made it clear that in future we would be able to support this kind of distressing situation if we were to be airborne in Syria. For my group, there are still two questions from the first term. The first question concerns the ISIS coalition, the ISIS supply of weapons and the export of oil in the last piece in northern Syria and southern Turkey. I urge the cabinet to do everything possible with the Americans to prevent the jihadist flow of fighters crossing the border, including the import of weapons and the export of ISIS oil to Turkey. If we do not close the supply lines there, the influx to Syria will continue and we do not want that. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The second point I did not get to in the second period relates to the situation in Iraq. The Christian Union is pleased that the training is being given extra support and that we are trying to facilitate more weapons going to the Kurds and Iraqis to fight with ISIS. However, I would like to draw particular attention to minorities in the north, Christians, Jezidis and others. How can we reach these groups? Is the Foreign Minister prepared to urge the Kurds that these minorities too will be able to protect their own villages? I would like to draw attention to two points. The first concerns food drips. Mr Van Bommel has tabled a motion on this matter. Will the cabinet do everything in its power to make this possible, at least to enable the food supply of besieged villages? The second point concerns the Syrian-Kurdish alliance in the north. I have tabled the next motion for a resolution on this subject. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a future political agreement in Syria can only be sustainable if there is sufficient support for this in all parts of Syrian society;]] [[Whereas, therefore, minorities such as the Syrian Kurds, Christians, Turkmen and Jezidis, who have organised themselves in the Syrian Democratic Council (SDC), should also be associated with the political process in Geneva;]] [[calls on the Government, if the current criteria for stabilisation projects laid down by the Netherlands are met, to make proposals for stabilisation, reconstruction and local government in liberated areas where the SDC has control eligible for Dutch support;]] [[calls on the Government to work to ensure that the Syrian Democratic Council is also prepared and involved in the informal dialogues (Track II) in Geneva,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Servaes, Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Knops, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Bommel, Mr Grashoff, Mr Klein and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-577]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr. Chairman. In the western part of Syria, the humanitarian disaster deepens even further, now with about a million people in besieged cities and villages. We see that the Assad regime is gaining ground with large-scale, shameless assistance from Russian bombers. We see that the international community is not even able to force united humanitarian access to the besieged territories with the warring parties; we must beg for it. We see images of people being deliberately starved and we see more, even more refugees. We are talking about the deployment of four F-16s in Eastern Syria to bomb there. The Foreign Minister spoke in this context about a balanced package. A balanced package? What we see is that we have nothing more to offer the people of Syria than bombs. There is no prospect of ending the civil war, no prospect of ending the barbaric repression of the population by IS, no prospect of liberation from the yoke of Assad. What we see is that we are only making the Syrian people in the East and the West more cynical and that they are further losing confidence in the international community.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u33	It almost seems that if the cabinet in this Article 100 letter does not have a direct solution to all the problems in the world, it is not good. Can Mr Grashoff tell me how much money the Dutch Government has already provided for humanitarian aid over the last four or five years of this terrible civil war? Does he know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u34	The humanitarian situation in Syria is terrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u35	No, no, no. Humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u36	We will not change that situation. The plan now before us has nothing to do with it. If some more money were to be put into humanitarian aid, something we support, that would be fine, but we do not need an article 100 letter for that. Mr Ten Broeke knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u37	That was my point. I would have hoped that we would have done so without military commitment and without Article 100. We would have done the same, because we have already spent almost half a billion in humanitarian aid for Syria and its surrounding areas. This specific letter allocates 25 million to humanitarian aid and less than 5 million to the extension of the military section. That's a factor from one state to five. Mr Grashoff, you should reconsider your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr Ten Broeke must leave cynicism out of here, and certainly this kind of attack. The balance that we are making here and which I am describing here is that an international community is not able to really offer something to the Syrian people. If she could, we wouldn't see images of people being starved. That is what Mr Ten Broeke is ignoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u40	What we see is that a coalition from Moscow, Damascus and Tehran is shamefully taking advantage of a possible start of a negotiation process to break Syrian resistance with excessive violence. We see that our bombs on IS in Eastern Syria do not change that. From the cynical perspective of ordinary people in Syria, we are simply another party that treats them to bombs. Unfortunately, we are still a long way from the situation in which several Syrian parties are actually working together on a more stable and safer Syria, but that was only true of the fact that we are taking joint action against IS. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is not necessarily opposed to the Dutch involvement in this conflict, even against a military one, if it is effective and therefore takes place within the framework of well-coordinated international cooperation and effectively contributes to the security and protection of the civilian population in Syria. That is why we have previously supported the intervention in Iraq. Undoubtedly, the bombing of military targets in Eastern Syria has a military advantage, seen from the perspective of our engagement in Iraq. A kind of hard-hitting need for this is the picture that is being sketched Even in the government's first-term response, there was little conviction in this area. GroenLinks sees more benefit in continuing our efforts in Iraq, further removing the breeding ground for terrorist violence in Iraq itself, restoring the rule of law, supporting and training the Iraqi army and the Kurds, stabilising and rebuilding recaptured areas and further cutting off lines for supplying arms and money and exporting oil. These are matters with which we can combat IS and the power of IS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u41	The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance was able to reach a balanced opinion on the Iraq part of this mission. At that time we also saw that the humanitarian consequences still could not be contained in the way that Mr Grashoff and I would like to see it. I believe I may be wrong, but there are almost 1.5 million refugees in Iraq. Is Mr Grashoff actually saying that he has a retroactive regret that his group has agreed to that earlier decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u42	I think I said exactly the opposite. The fact is that the situation in Iraq is fundamentally different from that in Syria. In the situation in Iraq, we were able to speak of a balanced assessment of military deployment in a 3D approach, on which I believe Mr Ten Broeke and the Group of the Green Left agreed at the time. And I think we are still in agreement on the Iraqi situation. From that perspective, you can use military forces in a country like Iraq: we both had an international mandate and there could be effective action and there was a basis to offer the population in Iraq more than just bombs. In this context, we were able to say together that this was a useful commitment, including the Green Left Group. However, this is fundamentally different from the situation in Syria, where there are hundreds of fighting groups and where we even have to be careful not to counter-effect the things we are now planning to do there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u43	It is perhaps unpleasant for Mr Grashoff to learn that we have also thrown a lot of bombs in Iraq. We've run 1,700 missions and we've dropped 1,300 precision bombs very precisely. Not only have we done this, but a coalition of more than 60 countries. Yet there are militias and death squads, such as Shia death squads, and human rights violations are being committed on the assembly line. You can read the reports of Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. Yet we do, because we think that those bombs there ultimately contribute a bit to reducing ISIS. And that's what's gonna happen. Exactly the same is now going to happen in Syria. So I do not understand Mr Grashoff's consideration and indignation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u44	My indignation was about an accusation, which I cast far away from me, about the balance that the Green Left Group makes. The point is that the situation in Iraq is substantially different. Is it all over there? No, of course not. Is there much to be done there? Yes. Do things happen there that can't stand the light of day? Unfortunately, yes, and we have to act against that. However, what we intend to do in Syria cannot be argued in the same way in the context of the actual expulsion of IS and the creation of conditions that could actually create peace in that country. There's not even a start on those terms yet. On this basis, we consider that it makes no sense, even counterproductive, to throw bombs in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u45	I would like to go into a little more detail about the consideration that GroenLinks is now making. Does Mr Grashoff agree that ISIS is still committing crimes against humanity in Syria? Does Mr Grashoff also agree with me that there is at least a mandate or legal basis for this mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u46	It is absolutely true that ISIS is committing crimes against humanity. This also applies to the Assad regime, but we will not disagree on this. And according to Nollkaemper's reasoning, there is indeed a limited mandate under Iraq's self-defense principle to do something, that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u47	In that case, I would like to look at the considerations of the GroenLinks Group. Her former group chairman, Mr Van Ojik, said: where crimes against humanity take place, we must take military action. He said that the only reason why we are doing this now only in Iraq and not in Syria is because there is no mandate for Syria. Does this not make sense for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to look again at its own considerations, now that there are crimes against humanity and the presence of that mandate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u48	There is no light between the position of GroenLinks today and that of Mr Van Ojik. It is an integral consideration. There must be an international mandate and a meaningful and effective commitment to effectively protect the civilian population. That situation was and is there in Iraq, with everything possible falling and getting up. There is no such situation in Syria. I think Mr Sjoerdsma actually agrees with me on that last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u49	I understand Mr Grashoff's position. He says Syria is really a different story than Iraq. I think we're pretty close together, so let me go with his reasoning. You could look at Iraq in isolation, couldn't you? If you want to make progress there, can't you do anything but tackle that supply route, of course, in Eastern Syria? Otherwise mopping with the tap will remain open. I joined Mr Grashoff when the Chamber asked the cabinet about this: was it isolated, was it only about Eastern Syria, were we not going to support other armed forces? We have had clear answers from the ministers to all these questions. Then why this last doubt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u50	From the perspective of the situation in Iraq, there is a military advantage to do so. That's the point, I just said it myself. Well, that's different from a necessity. Purely motivated from a military doctrine, it will always be useful to fight a particular opponent, wherever he sits. This leads to a simple, self-affirming reality that will be so in the military sense. However, that is not all we need to take into account. It is and remains an integral consideration. You will have to continue to realize the situation in Syria. This situation does not lend itself at all to military intervention at the moment. Those civilians in Syria will have to deal with our bombs, no matter how precisely we fire them. We have nothing more to offer them. We have no protection or alternative to offer them. If we don't be careful, we'll hunt them even more into the arms of ISIS. Our bombs fit perfectly into his worldview.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u51	I am trying to understand the reasoning of the Green Left Group. I understand this when it comes to protecting the citizens of Syria and possible shifts to groups that we do not want to support. With this mission, however, the cabinet has clearly zoomed in on ammunition storage sites, not on groups or on close air support, not even from the Free Syrian Army, because it is not in the east, and certainly not from Al-Nusra. So it's very isolated. In doing so, the cabinet has crossed the line of our group. The mission is focused on the supply lines and ammunition depots. What changes will Mr Grashoff consider to be taking place with regard to support for certain groups in Syria itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u52	Looking at this from the civilian perspective in Syria, I totally disagree with this. An image is created, but the practice is that bombs are simply fired in built-up areas and that there is a high risk of civilian casualties. You can try to prevent it, but the shelling, the fear and the chaos will certainly have an impact on the population. If we throw bombs in Syria and do not offer alternatives to the population, we will not gain her trust. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u53	In fact, I recognize all the elements described by Mr Grashoff. I have included them in my consideration. In my view, it is an open secret that we have also discussed and weighed it extensively in my group. We agree on the mandate. This mission actually fits one-on-one on Nollkaemper. The international context is now there. It is a UN Security Council resolution. There is no such thing as a much heavier international dimension. Mr Grashoff referred to the importance of the civilian population. I really appreciate that, because I think you should look at every conflict through those glasses. In general, I have told you what I have seen and heard in northern Iraq, namely that the cities recaptured by ground troops on ISIS are full of berm bombs and booby traps. That's what kills a lot of civilians. The civilian population wants to just move back to Sinjar. She wants security there. That's where the whole thing started. Does Mr Grashoff wish to put that perspective, in view of the importance of the civilian population, against his other considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u54	That is perhaps the most pressing and most justified question that has been put to me in this debate. It is also a very complex and complex balance, and we do not have the ultimate answer either. If you look at it this way, my point is that one way or another, you have to fight the war in Iraq further. There will indeed be roadside bombs. Even if we do something about bombing in Eastern Syria, those bombs will still be there. You end up beating IS not from the air, but on the ground. In this context, the parties to the Iraqi conflict must step up together. Air support must be provided where possible, but we must also ensure that it is done on the ground. It's no different. That is indeed a very harsh and intense reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u55	Each group must make its own assessment. I have every respect for that. Again, for my party it is not easy to consider, but still. Mr Grashoff says: you cannot just win that war from the sky. That's absolutely true. The cabinet has just described in 22 pages that it cannot win that war there, that it does not have the illusion that it can bomb away the ideology of ISIS and that it is limited in the possibilities of offering the civilian population an alternative. I saw, however, that Mr Grashoff's signature was under a motion to give that perspective precisely in Syria. I think that's very good. But if we succeed now in at least taking out warehouses and factories where ISIS bombs are produced, which cost human lives in Iraq, and the supply of them, I admit that it will not be waterproof, it will save people's lives, won't it? Mr Grashoff agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u56	That is why, frankly, I cannot fully follow the Labour Party's assessment either. The essence is and remains that you cannot judge it solely on the military aspect and on the situation in Iraq. You're gonna have to look at what the overall playing field is the effects of what you're doing. My group sees the great risk that in the end we are not trying to win the people of Syria for us, but that we are alienating them further from us. We have nothing to offer her right now. If we do have something to offer these people, then Mr Servaes and I will talk to each other and we may get out of it, but that is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u57	Were you done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr President, I will conclude, because I was almost finished. The use of our F-16s does not contribute to creating a stable and safe situation for citizens but rather leads to greater insecurity and fear. It will not lead to defeating IS if there is no reliable party that can take over the territory of IS. It will not contribute to regaining the trust of the frustrated and fearful people in Syria, and it will ultimately not contribute to a real solution in a broader sense, nor will it contribute to a political solution. In this sense, we will not be able to support the present decision, which is far too much based on unilateral military consideration. We are concerned that this can and should not really be the result of all our efforts to bring Mr Assad back on a palanquin to his old and cruel dominant position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u59	Madam President. I'll start with a quote. "Indifference is not a beginning, but an end. Therefore, indifference is always the enemy's friend. It favours the aggressor, never the victim, whose pain is aggravated if he or she feels forgotten. The political prisoner in his cell, hungry children, homeless refugees: those who do not respond to their misery and ease their loneliness by offering them a glimmer of hope, banishes them from human consciousness, and if we deny their humanity, we betray our own." It is a statement by the well-known Jewish writer and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel. Indifference, looking away from the suffering of the other is not an option, although sometimes it is the easiest way. Eventually, that betrayal is to be our own human being. I found those impressive words from the mouth of an Auschwitz survivor. Indifference to great injustice is not an option. Making a small contribution to countering injustice is therefore a great responsibility. According to the SGP, this is also the situation with regard to what is happening in Iraq and Syria at the moment. There is no need to explain that the terrorist organization is continuing to sow death and destruction. The atrocities are indescribable. It is equally true that moral indignation and moral involvement are not sufficient grounds for a military mission. That is why sometimes there is almost no need to say too much, but I wanted to start with it. I would add immediately that we have also learned from the past, but in the end it must always be a very careful review in the light of the frameworks we have set out for this. Can we indeed make an effective contribution to fighting injustice? Is there a sufficient basis for this? We have tested this in detail before when it came to military intervention against ISIS in Iraq. We have indicated early on that we find the restriction to Iraq rather arbitrary. ISIS doesn't stick to that border. After all, it's all caliphate soil. In addition, it can be said that the combination of the well-known UN resolutions has provided an international mandate to take all necessary steps to counter the international threat posed by ISIS. That is why we have also taken a positive view of the government's decision to use the F-16s against ISIS in Syria. It is good that it also connects with the military reality that ISIS is also being fed from Eastern Syria at this very moment and that it is therefore very important to counter these supply lines and to co-establish the deployment of our F-16s. So we also support the abolition of this important geographical restriction. I won't say the word "caveat." I think we can just talk about reservations and limitations, which can indeed be of all kinds. It was a very important geographical restriction to Iraq. As far as we're concerned, it's also a good thing it's going to go away now. According to the SGP, this is important in order to be able to hit ISIS harder and more effectively. We strive for stability and peace, always for the sake of the political and diplomatic process. It is good that this humanitarian effort is also being carried out, military mission or not. It is precisely the commitment to where the need is greatest that is very important. I also endorse the motion tabled by Mr Knops on this subject. I co-signed it, too. A good strategy to fight evil is not offered on a platter. The international community is working hard on that. The situation is extremely complicated. Anyone who says it's a hornet's nest is right, but that is no reason not to accept our responsibilities for convenience, where we do see those possibilities. It is important that the political process also unites as many parties as possible. Hence our warm support for the motion tabled by Mr Voordewind on this subject, which we have signed with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u60	Mr. Chairman. ISIS must be completely destroyed. My group therefore supports this mission, but the decision to bomb in Syria should of course have been taken a year and a half ago. Maybe more lives would have been saved. In our opinion, there do seem to be restrictions on this mission. Thus the Commander of the Armed Forces said at the technical briefing that around Palmyra, where the IS terrorists also sow death and destruction, no action is being taken by the Netherlands. The reason for this is that there is a mix-up with Assad's troops. But other coalition countries are bombing around Palmyra and do not seem to have this exception. I would like to hear another response from the Minister of Defence to this statement, because it remains unclear. It stays above the market. This mission can only be carried out until July because of the worrying operational readiness of the armed forces. That's really irresponsible. We need to invest billions more in our defense. We say to this cabinet: please make this clear. Finally, we wish our soldiers every success in extending this mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u61	Mr. Chairman. This is not the first debate on conflict-torn Syria, nor will it be the last, because it is clear that you must fight against ISIS and fight against the situation in Syria. The Article 100 letter we are debating specifically concerns ISIS. We need to draw a conclusion on this. The Foreign Minister has already indicated that it is all very complex. This morning's debate also made it clear that it is very complex. So care is paramount. Throwing bombs won't solve anything. My group opts for responsibility and for further political and economic pressure. My group chooses people. It therefore fully supports the continuation of the good humanitarian commitment of the cabinet. To that end, I would like to make two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is currently no overall military plan for the fight against ISIS in Syria to effectively defeat ISIS and give the people there the prospect of peace;]] [[whereas a Dutch effort to bomb ISIS targets in Syria is unwise in the absence of such a comprehensive plan;]] [[Whereas increased political and economic pressure on ISIS may lead to isolation of ISIS and therefore a lack of resources for ISIS to pursue their armed struggle;]] [[calls on the Government to focus its efforts against ISIS in Syria on increased political and economic pressure, on sanctions and confiscations of ISIS assets, and on prosecution of crimes against humanity committed by members of ISIS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that in its letter of 29 January 2016, the Government indicated that it had decided to launch air attacks against ISIS over Syria;]] [[Considering that the Government indicated in a letter in June 2015 that the presence of an international legal basis in itself is not sufficient to decide on Dutch military engagement over Syria when there is at the same time no widely-supported political solution to the conflict in Syria;]] [[noting that there is currently no clear and concrete political solution;]] [[Considering that the lack of a political solution to the complex conflict in Syria could lead to further instability and a power vacuum in that region, as well as an additional flow of refugees as a result;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the decision to launch bombing of ISIS over Syrian territory until there is a real political solution to the Syrian conflict, or at least a prospect of it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-578]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-579]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr. Chairman. We had a four-hour meeting this morning in which the discussion on the Dutch commitment in Syria was actually completed at the end. That is why we are pleased to be able to conclude it in plenary. A consultation which was actually a mockery because the decision had been taken a long time ago and because policy language distracted us from the fundamental considerations. You'd almost forget this is about human lives. In these consultations, three directors and their entire administration were unable to convince us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u63	I respect everything Mr Kuzu says when it comes to content and political judgment. But when he talks about a pacifist debate, in which the decision has been taken for a long time, I would remind him of the Article 100 procedure and how it is structured. That procedure means that the cabinet takes a decision and that this decision is finalized after the Chamber has been heard and has been able to give its opinion. That's what we're doing right now. If you call that a mockery debate, I would ask you to take back those words or leave this Chamber, because your words are not going to get anywhere, and you do not know the procedure that is at issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u64	I do know the procedure. Last week you were able to hear the efforts of the Labour Party group and to see all those cameras and journalists who were sitting here at the potato counter, where it was actually noted that there was a majority in the debate. My position stands, and I'm not taking a word back. The decision had been made a long time ago. The political basis had long been organized and you were the one leading this battle, and I resent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u65	I'm gonna distance myself from this. We may differ as to whether or not we would support such a mission. It is customary in this Chamber for political parties to comment and journalists to speak outside this Chamber. That is not a secret; it is not a secret that the Labour Party has a debate. It's all possible. But if Mr Kuzu refers to this as a mockery debate with reference to the fact that the cabinet has already taken a decision, then I maintain that he does not know what the procedure is like and that he should take up the Rules of Procedure and Rule 100 before he makes that statement. Otherwise, I can't take him seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mr Knops is free to do so. I didn't hear a question. I know the procedure very well and I stand by my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u67	I would like to assume that Mr Kuzu knows the procedure very well. There are some, like Mr Knops and myself, who have been through the procedure quite a few times. I have to tell you that both your arguments do not go far. Firstly, there was already broad support, broad enough for a majority of the Chamber. Nevertheless, the cabinet has rightly made its own assessment, because the decision belongs to the cabinet. That's one. Two: also from the coalition, for example myself, there is criticism of this letter. There is no doubt that the cabinet and I do not agree on this, but that criticism will come. I find the letter unbalanced in some respects. This also has to do with the Article 100 procedure. Are you not going to say here, while I come across you for the first time in an Article 100 procedure, that you know the Article 100 procedure so well and are just serving the entire Chamber which has done so very often? It is careless and it undermines the care with which we will or will not agree. I hope you'll agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr Ten Broeke should pay more attention, because just before the summer holidays we also had an Article 100 procedure on the Dutch contribution to Iraq. I was there, so that argument doesn't go far. The second point is this: I would like to congratulate Mr Ten Broeke most warmly because the VVD has got the PvdA to go along with this crazy idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u69	I would also like to express my disappointment at terms such as a pacifier's parliament, a pacifier's debate and so on. Mr Kuzu may be critical of the mission. We have also expressed this, but Mr Kuzu also knows that the Cabinet attaches great importance to broad support in society, but also in this Parliament. That goes beyond the coalition parties. You have seen that several motions have been tabled, even by the SP when it comes to the humanitarian side, in which the parliament does add to the cabinet in order to reach a balanced decision. I would therefore like you to maintain the reputation, the image, of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u70	I never said "focus parliament." I said that this was a mockery because the decision had already been taken in advance. We received the letter from the cabinet on 29 January, we were able to observe the play in the corridors last week, and I still maintain that this consultation and all this was estimated. I shall now turn to the five arguments that I have also put forward during the general consultation. In that consultation, three directors and their entire administration were unable to convince us. The rulers have not been able to refute our five arguments against this mission. They have not convinced us that this mission will not degenerate again in a cycle of violence that responds to violence that once again responds to violence. They have not made it clear that this mission will not again be at the expense of innocent civilians in the Middle East. Nor have they been able to justify putting the Netherlands at risk with this mission. They have not been able to make it clear that the Netherlands must intervene in the game of chess between Russia and the United States. Finally, these ministers have not been able to rule out the need for our bombs to put people on the run. Tomorrow, in a debate in the Chamber, we are discussing the containment of asylum seekers' influx. How ambiguous do you want it to be? Since the ministers have not been able to refute our arguments, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to carry out a military mission in Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-580]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u71	Despite our objections, this mission is about to take place. I can count, too. This has been in jugs and jugs for some time and this is partly due to the Labour Party. The principles of the Labour Party are like a rainbow: before you realize how beautiful they are, they are gone again. That is why accountability and transparency about our military efforts are very important. We have already discussed Airwars in the talks, but I would like to make a point of this. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is of great importance for the accountability of military engagement to ensure as much transparency as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to report, in as transparent and frequent a manner as possible, on the Dutch military engagement against Daesh and the possible civil damage caused by this, for security reasons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-581]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u72	Finally, I would like to announce that I am going to request a roll-call vote on the first motion I tabled. We're about to vote on a military mission. Essentially, we're going to vote on human lives. Such a vote must never be cold and technocratic. That is why I would like to call on all MPs and ministers once again to watch videos and photos of bombings and civilian casualties. Then we'll know what we'll be voting on later. Then you'll see what kind of massacres have been committed, and what corpses have passed by. I don't want that on my conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u73	I have one observation. Mr Kuzu began his speech by saying that it was a pacifist debate. He is tabling two motions in this debate, so he seems to take it seriously himself, so seriously that he calls for a roll-call vote. I'm just gonna take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u74	That was an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u75	I am also surprised that Mr Kuzu calls it a pacifist debate and then puts forward four motions. Can Mr Kuzu explain that? It's carnival and all, but why does he come up with a serious motion when it's been a fake debate that we've had here with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u76	Mr Ten Broeke must learn to count. It's not four motions, it's two motions. As a Member of Parliament, I have the right to say so. I'm sticking with it. I just explained in detail why I did that. I would like to have a roll-call vote later to show what individual Members of Parliament have to say about life and death issues and how they are going to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u77	I cannot deny my colleague that right. It is a right that we all have. I hope that Mr Kuzu makes prudent use of it. The last time he asked for a roll-call vote, it was mainly to bring forward a number of colleagues from certain ethnic backgrounds in a special way. Can I say my disgust about that again in this place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u78	Mr Ten Broeke is also free to do so. Our aim with this roll-call vote is to show the Netherlands how the vote is taking place in this Chamber. It is also true that certain figures in this Chamber have a very different story in the outside world than here in the Chamber. That is precisely what Mr Ten Broeke should encourage. That is precisely what Mr Ten Broeke should embrace, because this is about transparency in our representative body.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u79	Mr Kuzu, the votes will also be recorded in the Minutes. Citizens can follow it in different ways. We can vote by roll call, but other votes are equally important. Citizens can follow the process in an open and transparent manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u80	You are right, Mr President, but you also know that the average citizen looking at such a debate does not look at the Acts to see how individual Members of Parliament voted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u81	Mr. Chairman. There's a powder keg and there's a fuse. The VVD wants to put that fuse in the powder keg and by now the entire coalition and a large part of this Chamber are over. But that does not apply to my group. There is a war involving Russia, Iran, the Assad regime, ISIS and a palette of international warring parties with conflicting interests. Canada is pulling its fighter jets, but the Netherlands is ready to bomb with it. Is it clear who's going to win? If there's one thing that's clear, it's that no one will win at all. Let us look at the illusory battlefield. The Assad regime is too weak to survive. Of the 325.000 soldiers that the Syrian army counted at the start of the war, less than half are left. Young people frequently flee to the countryside or abroad to avoid compulsory service. Assad arrests young men to literally use them as cannon meat. Assad is totally dependent on foreign aid. There are military advisors from Iran, there are volunteers from Iran, Iraq and Lebanon, there are thousands of Hezbollah fighters, and there is Putin who will prevent the regime of Assad from falling apart with an air offensive. According to the United Nations, at least 220,000 people were killed in the civil war. According to the refugee organisation, 4.6 million Syrians have fled abroad. We know the consequences: large groups of refugees are adrift, in the region and in Europe. In the meantime, there's a bunch of fighting parties that literally depopulate the country. Running or dying, those are the options of this moment. And now we're going to interfere with four fighter jets. There is no indication that our contribution will bring peace any closer. Everyone knows that who has seen what we have not done in Iraq and Afghanistan. Many warring parties have been bombing from different interests for a long time and if we can establish one thing, it is that this has not brought peace closer, but it has brought insecurity. Russia lost a plane full of civilians to terrorists and the attacks in Paris are still fresh in memory. Peace organization Pax, the Red Cross and Amnesty International call for caution, but unfortunately there is no majority in parliament who chooses a Dutch truce in the powder keg. Bombardments are not going to contribute to peace in Syria. If there is a need for something, it is humanitarian aid and not bombs. The Netherlands is looking for danger. The Netherlands nourishes the danger. And the Netherlands gives the command of its own forces completely out of control. Compassion, sustainability, peace and security are not served by Dutch bombings in Syria, at best they can result in terrorist retaliation in the Netherlands. The Animal Party will not support those bombings. Those who want to achieve peace with all force achieve the opposite. Violence against people can serve many interests, but not peace and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u83	Madam President. I would like to thank the Chamber for its detailed and detailed questions, both in writing and in the debate, this morning and again this afternoon. This means that, of course, there is great attention from the House of Representatives to the treatment of this article 100 letter. I am also actually proud that we have this Article 100 procedure in parliamentary democracy in the Netherlands. This means that we are really trying to reach important decisions on the broadcasting of military personnel in a very solid way, in replies and rejoinders, in a democratic way. This is a sensitive and complex issue for everyone, as is evident from today's debates, which I really believe have been tried as fairly as possible on all sides. The situation there is complex, some call it a wasp nest with the proxy war and the enormous appearance of ISIS. I think everyone agreed to that today. However, my conviction is that complexity should never lead to passivity. We have a responsibility to take in that fight. At the same time, the debates have shown that when you take such a decision, you really have to make it precise and precise. There are, of course, differences of opinion. Should it have been sooner? Shouldn't it have been at all? From the Dutch Government's point of view, I am convinced that we have always taken these decisions on the basis of the responsibility of the Dutch Government for the safety of the Netherlands and of the Dutch. I am convinced of the need to combat ISIS intelligently. And yes, that is certainly not just bombing, because that is of course not going to defeat ISIS. However, it may be an element, provided that we weigh it carefully. Nor is it just an isolated military strategy. It includes political, humanitarian and development aspects. This has, of course, been the subject of very detailed consideration in international consultations over the past period, in our contacts with the United Nations and with allies. That consultation also took place with people who consider these aspects, namely responsibility, effectiveness, but also humanitarian war law and accountability of what you do, all of them important. It is important to try to maximise the impact of what you do to be positive. On that basis, the government wrote that Article 100 letter. I think we have answered almost all the questions. It is, of course, up to the Members to consider the matter. As far as I am concerned, however, it has been done as carefully as possible and with a sense of urgency. It is there, for example, because of the number of victims we are currently seeing in Iraq through booby traps and IEDs. People who finally return to Ramadi and other cities are then confronted with material, brought there via supply lines from Syria, which leads directly to their own destruction. That is not acceptable and the Netherlands cannot remain passive. That is why this responsibility, which we are now presenting to the Chamber, is a balanced responsibility. In this context, a number of questions have been asked to me; I am not, of course, going to repeat what we have done in general. I think we have all discussed it quite carefully, including the situation in Aleppo. Some thought that was part of the debate, while others thought that we were paying too much attention to it. Let me now turn briefly to the questioners. We see a huge number of Syrians fleeing Aleppo from violence. That city's getting pinched off. That's a humanitarian tragedy. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation will be addressing the question of what this means for our humanitarian policy. We cannot stand on the sidelines there. I have made strong statements about the way in which the Russian Federation, together with the Assad regime, is not actually implementing the important UN resolutions in any way at the moment. This week, but also from the weekend in Munich and next week, with Americans, Russians and Europeans, we will be fighting for a change in the situation. That's not gonna be easy, but we're gonna do it. In the context of this point, I have already said that, as far as I am concerned, there is no political linkage, to use a good Dutch word, no connection, between what is happening in Syria and Ukraine. I would also find such a connection wrong; before you know it, it could have gone the other way, namely that an agreement could have been better implemented in Syria and that we would say: then we will reduce the sanctions. However, I have also understood the messages from the Chamber concerning the criticism of the current policy of the Russian Federation. I support it. The subject will therefore be raised, in the way I have already addressed it this morning. I will answer some specific questions and also deal with the motions I have to deal with. A question has been asked about the role of Christian communities and the disappearance of a lot of minorities in the region. In general, the position of minorities in Syria and Iraq is very worrying. I think Christians have an extra vulnerable position, because they are relatively small in number and therefore have a less robust protective net. Assyrian Christians and Jezidis are victims of ISIS, but also Shiite Turkmen, Kurds, Shiite shabak and Sunni Arabs. There is therefore a palette of minorities that are increasingly being destroyed, expelled or at least discriminated against by violence. We are trying to help combat this violence. We are contributing, through various tracks, to promoting a safe home for these threatened citizens. Of course, this has to do with the commitment to the political solution, the Track II dialogues, the UN Human Rights Council and human rights defenders such as the Dutch Relief Alliance. There are also very specific programmes and projects. In the additional article 100 letter, the cabinet announced an additional contribution of 12 million for the Dutch Relief Alliance. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation will say something about this. In this context, a motion has been tabled that I would advise against, since it asks the government to develop specific policies with regard to Christians in Iraq and Syria and to explore the possibilities for specific aid programmes for displaced Christians. As I have said before in the Chamber, that is something I am obviously working on. I am speaking with these groups, as I indicated at the time in various ways. I also have certain pilot programs. But we are talking about minority policy now, and I do not want to focus specifically on one group. We have a humanitarian imperative against all minorities. We always have an eye for vulnerable groups in there; I have just mentioned a lot of them. That means that despite the sympathy I have for the motion, I want to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u84	It'll help if you mention the number of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u85	Number 574.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u86	The motion Knops c.s. in piece No. 574. Thank you. Mr Knops, you are the author, so you may ask a question. Everyone else can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u87	You've got it all right, Mr. Chairman. I must honestly say that when the Minister started, I thought he would see the motion as an encouragement to move forward in this direction. Every human being is equal, and I totally agree with the Minister. Every man in need is perfectly equal. But it cannot be denied that in this area Christians are a target. They are also specifically appointed by IS as a group to leave the area. In the context of this debate, which is sometimes extremely sensitive, I realize that this point should be made once, without wanting to fail other groups. Perhaps the sympathy the Minister feels for the motion could then lead to the judgment support policy. Or maybe she could be seen as an extra encouragement. Then this motion can still be adopted and I should like to address the Minister on this point in the future. That's important. I feel like the Minister and I aren't that far apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u88	Let me give you an example. Mr Voordewind specifically asked me about a Kurdish organisation with which he is very committed. At the same time, there is a high risk of possible discrimination against Christians. I've already discussed that before, and I'm going to discuss it again. So there is attention to it, but I am not going to put specific aid programmes on one religious group. We're not gonna do that. I don't intend to. As I said, we have programmes for all kinds of vulnerable groups. The same applies to Syrian Christians, Jezidis, Shiite Turkmen and Shiite Shabaabs. Of course, in our policy we also pay very serious attention to the Christian groups. Not long ago I reported on the political need to pay attention to this. I have traveled specifically to Athens to talk to the various Christian organizations in the region about better protection. Again, I think we have the same agenda. But you ask for very specific programmes in the motion, which in turn have to be translated into a separate policy and budget line. I'd like to advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u89	The Minister is absolutely right: the humanitarian imperative requires us not to make a distinction between religion and people's needs. At the same time, I do sympathise with this motion, because I cannot deny that it is sometimes the case that those Christian or Armenian groups that are very large in the Netherlands have much better access to the areas and people, for example through family relations. Can this not be the point of view, without making that distinction, so that it can improve the effectiveness of the aid provided? This seems to be happening in Germany and it appears to be effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u90	There are all kinds of opportunities to ask for specific attention not only through contacts and through the attention you have from a country with many Christians there, but also to have contacts and programs. I am not in favour of specific aid programmes, because it makes things very complicated. Above all, let us look at where we can best reach people on the basis of the programmes now available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u91	No separate helpline, because there may already be too many of them. What I keep hearing from Armenian Christians is that they can get to those people much easier, more efficient and faster, simply because those relationships are already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u92	I don't have any verifiable information in that area. It could be, you know, that there are good contacts. We have many other religious minorities here who have a lot of contacts and who use exactly the same argument. Once again, you know this minister as someone who calls for very specific attention to the Christian minorities. I'm gonna keep doing that. There are some pilots at this point. But you specifically ask me about this motion, which refers to specific aid programmes. That's why I'd like to discourage that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u93	Mr Van der Staaij, your name is also under the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u94	That's why I'd like to put a dime in the bag. I know the Minister as someone who is aware of specific problems. Where the need is greatest, that's what it's all about. But if the need is greatest among certain groups of Christians who also feel abandoned, we should not say from some sort of correct equality thinking: never mind. Makes them feel extra abandoned. I see the Minister shaking no. If additional channels are needed, this should not be reversed. That's my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u95	I support you in that. I think that is an important consideration, precisely in the way you say it. It is not ideology: we do it on one side, then we have to do it on the other, and then the percentages must also be the same. No, it's about what's urgent. It is clear that Christian minorities currently have a particularly vulnerable position in the Middle East, and indeed in a number of other regions. I come to a question about the different ways in which we fight ISIS. This happens militaryly, but also through the elements that have been introduced when it comes to cutting off financial flows, Foreign Terrorist Fighters (FTF) and Center for Strategic Counterterrorism Communications (CSCC). I wrote a letter to the Chamber on this matter very recently. For the sake of time, I would like to ask you to talk about this at another time. That letter specifically addresses the questions of how we deal with oil and money and what are the most effective means. It has always been said that it is a multi-headed monster. This must therefore be addressed in different ways. If you do something with one head and forget the other head, the whole thing is not effective. This also requires international cooperation. I have been asked about the situation in Iraq on a number of points. For the sake of clarity, let me just say the following. During the budgetary procedure we made a few commitments regarding non-lethal support and the provision of offensive means to the peshmerga. That's what we've been asked about. A number of highly-official discussions have now been held with several coalition partners, including Germany and the United States. The United States co-ordinates within the coalition what the peshmerga and Iraqi forces need and which country can possibly deliver these matters. As we know, we do not have those weapons ourselves. It is therefore a different type of contribution. There has also been mention of a logistical or financial contribution, such as in the field of transport and the like. I also know the findings of Amnesty International's report on peshmerga. The findings from the report are worrying. We raised these findings with the Kurds and asked them to investigate the allegations. In the possible decision to contribute to arms, we will strongly consider how the Kurdish authorities deal with the respect of human rights by the peshmerga. A thorough fatting will be part of the selection process for possible support for the arms programmes. As soon as the preparations lead to a concrete contribution, I will inform you about this. This also applies to a number of other points raised by the Chamber which relate to human rights, the position of Christians and the so-called 'demographic engineering'. The Minister for Defence and the Deputy Prime Minister in Baghdad and Erbil also called for attention. We have also been asked how the financing of the peshmerga armament relates to the regional stability criterion. Tomorrow we will be discussing arms exports in a more general sense. However, the Chamber must know that the supply of military goods to the Kurdish region always takes place in consultation with the central government in Baghdad. Otherwise, these deliveries would be contrary to the arms embargo on Iraq. Each supply of military goods shall be carefully weighed to avoid the risk of undermining regional stability, as required by the fourth criterion. We have so far delivered non-lethal goods to the Kurds. However, careful consideration has been made in granting the authorisation in order to avoid the risk of undermining regional stability. In this case, the threat posed by ISIS weighed heavily. The Dutch financing of the armament of the peshmerga by allies must also be assessed as a brokering service against the eight criteria. Against the background of previous statements on Kurdish independence and possible tensions that this can bring about in relation to Baghdad and neighbouring countries, the assessment of the fourth criterion will be made very precise each time. We have, of course, heard the reports on the possible leakage of weapons. That's why we're so precise. That is what I say here every time we propose support for certain groups. The Dutch Government is not reluctant to do so, but the risks are looked at very carefully. We want to prevent aid from reaching others, such as the market or extremist groups. Following the reports of the leaking, the Kurdish government launched an investigation. It has emerged from this that of the more than 20 000 weapons supplied by Germany to the Kurdish Government, three have indeed been put up for sale on the black market. Several coalition members have supplied weapons to the peshmerga, but also to the Iraqi armed forces. Of course, it's always a risk. You can never completely rule out that risk, but it needs to be carefully weighed. I come now to the question that has been raised about the Syrian Kurds and the Syrian Democratic Forces. Here too, I am cautious, for exactly the same reasons. I do not want the Chamber to ask me anything and I have to say two months later that it may not have ended well. Let me first say something about the nla, which is the non-lethal assistance. It is intended to help the moderate forces that threatened to get in the tribulation between Assad, ISIS and other extremists. That's even more important now than ever. Today, we see the suppression of the moderate opposition by, among other things, the offensives of Assad and the Russians. It is therefore not an additional means to combat ISIS. Let's get that straight. That's not what we're doing there. It is primarily intended to strengthen the political position of the moderate forces. However, there are a number of objections to the possible delivery of support to the Syrian Democratic Forces. As the Chamber knows, the dominant party within the Syrian Democratic Forces is the PYD and its militia, the YPG. It has a different political agenda, focusing in particular on autonomy, has links with the PKK and the Assad regime, and, according to Amnesty International, is guilty of human rights violations against Sunni-Arab and Turkmen populations. I do not need to explain to the Chamber that there are many hooks and eyes to supporting directly or indirectly the groups associated with the PKK. As a result, it remains to be seen whether such support is effective in achieving the objective that we want to achieve. That doesn't mean nothing's going to happen there. There is contact with the PYD at various levels and through partners, some of whom have been spoken by Members of Parliament, we are active in the Syrian-Kurdish area in order to promote dialogue between the various groups of the population. In this sense, we are doing so, but there are a number of problematic aspects that we cannot simply go over. I have said that I am prepared to examine whether we can offer any other form of support to the Syrian-Kurdish parties, for example in the area of stabilisation and governance. If I had the motion by Mr Voordewind and Mr Servaes in part No. 577, which has also been signed by a large number of others, I should like to leave the opinion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u96	The Minister's explanation is also in the motion itself. Reference is made to the criteria laid down by the Netherlands for stability projects. I fully understand the fact that the Minister has reservations about the financing of these projects, because we too have read Amnesty reports, but that is no reason for us to do nothing at all. With every group in Syria, things are going on. There are no absolute good guys or just bad guys. It's a mix of both. But the Minister can read the motion like that. I understand he can leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u97	Thank you. I now come to the discussion of a number of motions. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the motion on item No. 578 by Mr Klein, who asks the government to focus its efforts against ISIS in Syria on increased political and economic pressure, on sanctions and confiscations of ISIS assets, and on prosecution of crimes against humanity committed by members of ISIS. I would really advise against this motion, not because I disagree with the operative part, because that is what we are focusing on. At the same time, however, Mr Klein says that he is opposed to military action, which is also important to ensure that progress is made, that stabilisation is possible and that people can be saved in Iraq. It seems that we are on a different line. That means I have to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 579 also belongs to Mr Klein,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u98	The point is that the efforts that are being made in Iraq are precisely the way to defeat ISIS there. You also have the possible deployment of ground troops, in the form of the Iraqi army, which is taking further action. The question is what you really need to focus on in fighting ISIS. I think those are the points I made in the motion. That's essential. That's unrelated to the request in the other motion. I'd like to keep it separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u99	You write: "(...) considering that a Dutch effort to bomb ISIS targets in Syria is unwise in the absence of such a comprehensive plan (...)." We differ on that. We don't just bomb in Syria. The Chamber knows exactly what the frameworks are and what they are aimed at. In addition, we have used a number of other means to achieve a more positive situation in this complex situation than is currently the case. I must therefore advise against this motion, because we have a difference of opinion on this matter. Mr Klein is against it. That means I can't make a positive assessment of the motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 579, including Mr Klein. It invites the government to reconsider the decision to launch bombing of ISIS over Syria until there is a real political solution to the Syrian conflict, or at least there is a prospect of it. I would like to say the following to Mr Klein, but also to Mr Grashoff. It is also essential to listen to the United Nations, which also listens to the voice of its citizens and says: we need a resolution for both. It is an illusion to think that we can strengthen the peace process if ISIS is not addressed in Syria as well. That is an obvious advice from the negotiator. Mr Klein and Mr Grashoff may have a different opinion on this, but it is important to take account of the role of the United Nations and the international legal order. I must at least discourage this motion. In the motion in part No. 580 calls on Mr Kuzu not to carry out a military mission in Syria. He will understand that I must discourage that motion because it is irresponsible in the context in which we have to operate. That brings me to the end of my speech in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u100	Mr. Chairman. My contribution is slightly smaller. I thank the Members of Parliament for their questions. I will start with the caveats, because the discussion seems to continue. I saw a beautiful tweet by Mr. Knops, with an F-16 with all yellow memos in it. I reassure the Chamber once again that we are not going to do it like this. I repeat what I said this morning in the AA. We have partially lifted the caveat, and by that we mean the geographical restrictions. We are focusing on Eastern Syria, which has been agreed in line with the coalition's needs. There is primarily a focus on the supply lines and strategic locations within the supply lines, which means that we always fail to sustain the results achieved in Iraq. There are no operational restrictions in Mr Knops, Mr Ten Broeke and others, no targets are excluded in advance and there are therefore no caveats, other than humanitarian war law. This is the last thing we endorsed this morning. What we also talked about this morning is that the attacks should not strengthen the Assad regime. This is an important issue not only for the Netherlands but for the entire coalition. This morning, in response to questions from Mr Bontes, who is now on the interrupting microphone, I also said the following. There is again a reference to the city of Deir el-Zour. I understand that remark and we are not ruling out anything, but it is important that the coalition, including the Netherlands, does not function as Assad's air force. So I said, "Watch out, we'll meet the Russians; we really shouldn't want that. We're on the military trail, fighting against ISIS. That is the mandate within which we operate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u101	Does Palmyra have a geographical limitation or is that a different kind of restriction? Palmyra is located in the east of central Syria, on the border of eastern and central Syria. Is that a geographical restriction? The Canadians have bombed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u102	There was no geographical limitation for the Canadians for the eastern part of Syria, where the heartland of ISIS is located. I think Palmyra's just outside. So we have another picture. I am glad to repeat what I said this morning about the Canadians; Mr Van Bommel spoke about it again. The Canadians are still part of the coalition, supporting the coalition and the air campaign. In fact, they supply reconnaissance aircraft to make the information position for the fighter pilots as good as possible and refuel the fighter planes in the air. So it is by no means the case that, now that they only take out the kinetic character, they have a completely different approach to the fight against ISIS at once. That is clearly not true. I'll speak to the Canadian colleague tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u103	The minister says she thinks it's a geographical restriction. Is she sure about that? In case there's any need to intervene in Palmyra, is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u104	I have just explained that we have partially lifted the caveat in relation to Syria, namely for the eastern part of Syria, where the heartland of ISIS is located. Palmyra's just outside. Mr Servaes made understandable comments on transparency, accountability and collateral damage. He asked me if this could be discussed in the next report. The answer to this is, of course, yes, because I too am committed to it and will come back to it in the context of the motions tabled. First of all, there is the motion on part No. 572 by Mr Ten Broeke. Of course, for a Minister of Defence, this motion is very sympathetic, because I always like it when the House places emphasis on the home front days for soldiers and their family members, or veterans' care. However, I must advise against the motion. I think that the Foreign Minister has repeatedly explained this morning that this letter has been drawn up with due care. Moreover, these are not activities that are now being created suddenly, but activities that are already on the agenda of the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. So there can be no trade-out here. I very much agree with Mr Ten Broeke's call to look at the home front days, which we will have and which we also cherish, and at veteran care. Although the motion is sympathetic, I must dissuade her, because it is "en-en."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u105	I'll make it up to you. The Minister shall inform the Chamber of the amounts already reserved for this purpose, which shall not be shocking amounts and shall ensure that the same amounts also go to the home front days or veteran care. Otherwise, I will maintain my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u106	It is the right of a member of the Chamber to submit or maintain a motion. That's not up to me. Let us be clear: there are home front days and veteran care. I have just said that I think the motion is very sympathetic, but that it concerns activities that are already on the agenda of the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. I will ask my colleagues from SZW and V and J, who are concerned about this, if they can attach a price tag to the motion and inform the Chamber about it. In the motion in part No. 575 tabled by Mr De Roon, the government is invited to come forward with proposals on the longer deployment of the Dutch fighter jets. I understand the call, as I said this morning, but I also explained why we decided on the rotation model or the polar model. This is primarily driven by operational constraints. The kites and the fighters need to catch their breath. That is a reason for the Belgians to relieve us. Perhaps to reassure you, this does not, of course, mean that we are completely blind to certain needs or developments. I repeat that the operational constraints have led us in the way in which we have shaped the agreements with Belgium. The motion is sympathetic, but I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u107	The Minister talks about operational restrictions. With 68 F-16s we already have such operational restrictions that we are unable to hold or hold four F-16s on the battleground against ISIS for four or five months longer. My question to the Minister is: what exactly is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u108	Mr De Roon is quite right that we have problems with the fleet F-16s. That has everything to do with the fact that the weapons system is approaching the end of its economic, technical and operational life. Not for nothing have we decided, fortunately, to purchase the F-35. Until then, the F-16 still works well and there is an enormous amount of maintenance. However, we also have other tasks to carry out, such as the reassuring measures against our eastern allies, the protection of our own airspace and the training of kites. In short, these boxes have a destination. I can't magic a few of them. Again, we are not blind and continue to monitor what is possible, but we have a reason to decide whether to use the rotation model or the pole model with, for example, the Belgians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u109	Well, then it looks like the minister just doesn't want to do it. Whatever that may be, I'm drawing the conclusion that it's even worse off with the capacity of our air force than I thought. If 68 F-16s don't work out, I wonder how it's gonna work out when we only have 37 Joint Strike Fighters. Then I hold my heart completely for this kind of situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u110	It is good to hear that Mr De Roon now seems to support the purchase of the JSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u111	That's a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u112	Unfortunately! To reassure Mr De Roon once again, we are not blind to developments and needs. However, I advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 576, tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Bommel and Mr Voordewind, the government is invited to work in the international coalition for greater transparency and accountability. That is a very good place for me, because with the words 'greater transparency and better accountability' the current processes are somewhat disqualified. I do not think that this was the intention of Mr Sjoerdsma, but that suggestion has been awakened and I regret that. Nor does it do justice to the commitment made in this respect by the coalition members, but also, for example, by CENTCOM. In any case, like Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Bommel and Mr Voordewind, I am very much in favour of transparency and good accountability. I have just said this in response to Mr Servaes' questions. I therefore see the motion in support of existing policies, bearing in mind the comments I have just made. I have already said that there will be a conference or a meeting of the CDS and the JCOS at the end of February and that this issue will be on the agenda there. Of course, I will inform the Chamber further in the forthcoming progress reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u113	What's your verdict on the motion? "Judge Room," I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u114	Yes. And with that I also responded to the Kuzu motion in part No. 581, which is quite close to the Sjoerdsma c.s. motion. Finally. Mr Van der Staaij said that indifference is not an option. That's right. If we don't stand up to this, when will we? I have said it before and cannot repeat it enough. The work of our military is never without risks, as we discussed this morning. Decisions on commitment, as Mr Sjoerdsma said, are never taken lightly, far from it. I'm really proud of that, let me stress that to what our soldiers do day in, day out, namely: protect what's dear to us, regardless of whether it's close to the Dutch border or a little further away. I would very much like to wish our men and women a lot of strength, success and, above all, a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u115	Mr. Chairman. I should like briefly to mention the subject of food droppages. A motion has been tabled on this subject and a number of Members have made comments. Let me first say this, which is about something that almost never happens and which I find really annoying. The way in which Mr Sjoerdsma has expressed my view and my commitment to seeing whether food drips are possible is really not in line with what I said this morning. I have said that I am now marking the word 'now', so today there are the technical possibilities but there are also a number of other considerations to make. I have said that we will continue to monitor whether and, if so, how food drips can meet people's needs. I found the summary that Mr Sjoerdsma gave really too short a turn and did not do justice to the commitment that is being made on this subject outside the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u116	I see an offended minister, and I think that is absolutely wrong. I summarized it in this way and I repeat it for the sake of clarity. I didn't say anything about the Minister's commitment. In this area, I have nothing but praise for it. However, I did say something about the objections raised by the Minister with regard to the delivery of humanitarian aid, whether by air or not. I disagreed with that. I find some of these objections unfounded. I think that we can reasonably disagree in the debate on this. I do not think we disagree on the Minister's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u117	I hope this point is clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u118	I thank Mr Sjoerdsma for that. On the assessment of what is technically possible and whether it is sufficient to go into droppings, I can say that anything is possible. The question is whether that is effective and whether that brings the goods to the people to whom it should come. There are many other considerations involved. Nor should my words be seen as if I had said that it would not be technically possible. After all, it is. As I said, there's more to it. I am not going to repeat what we discussed this morning. Let me put it this way: the Van Bommel c.s motion. in piece No. I find 573 very sympathetic and very much in line with the government's commitment, except for one indication. I would like to thank the authors very much if they would consider whether we can come together. The motion calls on the government to develop a strategy within the coalition. However, the anti-ISIS coalition has no mandate to allow humanitarian access. What we are doing, of course, and with which we certainly want to continue, encouraged by the Chamber, is working with all the relevant partners on such a strategy. These may be countries that form part of the military coalition, but that is also about the UN and perhaps countries that do not participate in the coalition. If I may understand the motion in this way or if the motion is reworded in this way, I would very much like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u119	I propose that the words "within the coalition" be replaced by "with relevant partners."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u120	The motion-Van Bommel c.s. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the warring parties in Syria, in violation of international humanitarian war law, prevent humanitarian access to different villages, cities and regions and attack aid workers;]] [[Considering that this means that large groups of innocent citizens are deprived of basic necessities, including clean drinking water, food and medical assistance;]] [[calls on the Government, with relevant partners, to develop a strategy to enable humanitarian access to such areas, if necessary through food dripping,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 573 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u121	In that case, I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The Chamber has been able to hear from me that I feel supported by what it is asking of the government on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u122	This brings to an end the second term of office of the government. As agreed, there is now an opportunity to give a final judgment. Before we do that, I suggest we suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u123	As I said at the beginning of the debate, there is an opportunity to briefly give your final assessment of the Article 100 letter. That really means very short. It's not a deadline. The debate has already taken place and the motions have already been tabled. Mr Ten Broeke, set a good example!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u124	Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't dare disappoint you. I'll be brief. The VVD Group, after hearing today's extensive deliberations, agrees with the cabinet's proposal to re-direct and adapt the mission. We wish everyone involved in this mission, military and civil, all the support and strength they need, but also the home front, which is going to be very difficult. This is not an easy decision for us, but for them in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u125	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet and all my colleagues for a good and deep debate. The PvdA Group will agree to the proposal submitted by the Cabinet to us in the Article 100 letter. I say that two of my colleagues are not convinced of all the elements. Those are the colleagues Dikkers and Jacobi. However, as a group, we have decided to vote collectively on the motions before us. Of course, we are also one man and one woman behind the military who are now carrying out this mission and will continue to carry it out in the near future. We wish them every success and safe return. Of course, we are also thinking of the home front.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u126	Mr. Chairman. We thank the ministers for their reply and the colleagues in the Chamber for the broad support of the motion, which could support the Kurdish-Christian alliance. Considering everything, the entire fraction of the Christian Union can agree to this mission. We wish the home front much strength and the military much wisdom, God's blessing and a saved homecoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u127	Madam President. The SP does not support the use of Dutch F16s to bomb in Syria. We believe that these bombings are driving Sunnis into the arms of IS, unintentionally providing Assad and Russia with space to tackle the opposition and thus further delay or even prevent the peace process. All attention must now be paid to a ceasefire and humanitarian aid. This can only be credible to the Netherlands when the Netherlands itself will not bomb in Syria. This is without prejudice to the fact that the SP also wishes the Dutch military and the home front strength and a preserved return.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u128	Mr. Chairman. The fight against the barbarians of IS is a fight for the preservation of our open, free Western society, in which democracy is central. So far, our group has always supported the fight against international terrorism with full conviction, because we see the evil of IS as a threat to Europe and to the Netherlands in particular. Our military have done a very good job in the last period, in Erbil in Iraq, from an unnameable country in airspace above Iraq. If the cabinet's decision comes through the Chamber, they will now do the same over Syria. That decision by the cabinet, without caveats with the addition of the rulers just now, fully supports our entire group. We wish the military on the ground and in the air much strength in carrying out their mission and we do not want to forget the home front.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u129	Mr. Chairman. The beneficial work of our air force in the fight against Islamic State in Iraq is a good thing. It is also a good thing that this is also being done in Syria. Of course, we could and should have decided on this one and a half years ago, but the cabinet is only now ready. In itself, it is nice that it can come to this, but the PVV Group does regret that the period of deployment of our F16s is shortened by the cabinet. That is a pity and should not happen. In any case, we welcome this shift from our F16's attention to Islamic State in Syria. We support that, even wholeheartedly. I would like to add that, of course, I wish all our soldiers and others who are involved in the execution of the mission very much success and strength, with a safe return to the Netherlands. My group also appreciates the support of the home front of these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u130	Mr. Chairman. My group thanks the cabinet and almost all my colleagues for the good and thorough debate we have had today on the intended broadcast. The D66 Group can agree to the mission as prescribed by the Cabinet in the Article 100 letter, and wishes all men and women to be sent good luck, wisdom and a preserved homecoming. The home front of these people, of course, I wish all the strength in the intervening time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u131	Mr. Chairman. The Green Left Group believes that the use of F16s over Syria's territory at present does not contribute to a more stable situation or the realisation of a political solution in Syria. The relative military advantage associated with it from the Iraqi perspective does not outweigh that in our group's assessment. That is why the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will not support the extension of the mission to Syrian territory. However, our group also wishes all the soldiers who take part in it a great deal of strength and success, as does the home front.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u132	Madam President. We have had a long and wide debate on the cabinet decision to extend and intensify the fight against ISIS. All things considered, the SGP Group strongly supports this well-considered cabinet decision. We sincerely wish all the soldiers and those who are sent forth God's blessing in their work there, and hope for a safe return. We are also thinking of the home front.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u133	Mr. Chairman. Of course we support this mission. We asked for this as early as October 2014 in a motion for a resolution. So, of course, we're here for this. We wish our military very much strength with the extension of this mission and a safe return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u134	Mr. Chairman. No matter how you turn it or turn it, it remains a conscientious consideration. This serious debate has, in my opinion, been conducted with respect. In the overall weighting, my group does not support this mission, as set out in the supplementary Article 100 letter. ISIS needs to be addressed, but not as proposed. But of course we also support our soldiers and the home front, and wish them much strength in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u135	Mr. Chairman. My group was against the Dutch commitment in Iraq just before the summer break and, drawing that line, it is also against the expansion of this mission to throw bombs in Syria. That's not where our strength lies. Our strength lies in reconstruction, which lies in diplomacy and in the development of political solutions. I can count, however. This article 100 letter is gonna make it. Nevertheless, I wish our boys and girls a safe return here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u136	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister believes that our military in Iraq is above our weight class. I believe that, but that is not the balance that my group wants to make. The bombing does not, in my group's view, contribute to enhancing security in the world and security in Syria, nor does it contribute to enhancing security in the Netherlands. Participation in the bombings, on the other hand, poses a direct and indirect threat. For this reason, the Animal Party rejects participation in the bombings on Syria. My party accepts its responsibility not to contribute to that threat. Of course, my group also wishes to see all the men and women working for this mission safe and sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-9.u137	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate. In ten minutes, we're going to vote on the motions that have been tabled.
