ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the next thing I need to know is... I find a secretary of state here, when I expected the Minister of Health to come. I ask oral questions about a potentially large public health problem and what does the cabinet do? It delegates the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. I find it indecent that the cabinet is doing so, and I would like to have noticed this. Is the Minister of Health diving, or what's going on with this cabinet? Stench, maggots, fungus, salmonella, listeria, poop-stained meat, bone fractures and crates that are too full of live chickens, up to 20% above the norm. Animal welfare and public health seem to be against profit in the chicken sector. It comes to Omroep Gelderland to have gotten this up through a WOB procedure, as it is called. All kinds of documents have been put on the table. That which we read in it is downright revealing. Some farms are affected by a 5% salmonella infection. That's not supposed to be in there, is it? You're not putting contaminated products on the market, are you? Is the profit stake the only motive? Salmonella bacteria is dangerous, especially for high-risk groups. Many companies seem to have the attitude that salmonella and listeria are part of it. Isn't there a blurring of standards? The Dutch Food and War Authority (NVWA) looks like a lapdog instead of a watchdog. But we need a watchdog that maintains and intervenes, especially when there is sabotage: you read that companies, once the inspector is gone, just make the band run faster again. Fines are low. What's the deal, exactly? Does the Secretary of State agree that there should be strict enforcement and penalties and that public health should be the starting point of policy, including for the Dutch Food and War Authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am sometimes more friendly in welcoming this Chamber than Mr Van Gerven just did. He had addressed his question to the VWS Minister, but the practice in slaughterhouses and the action of the NVWA there is my responsibility. First of all, let me say that food must always be safe and that it is the responsibility of business to ensure this. According to the published reports to which Mr Van Gerven refers, these are reports requested by Omroep Gelderland from the NVWA................................................................................................................................................................................... So to answer Mr Van Gerven's first question straight away: salmonella, remains of feces and so on, of course, do not belong to meat. It appears that the NVWA at the time also found that too often there was contamination of meat. The reports also show that the NVWA's performance in those years was not strong enough. That was also the reason why the cabinet said something had to be done. Since 2013, an improvement plan for the NVWA has been put in place. As of 2015, this is also specifically targeted at poultry abattoirs. The NVWA has put a lot of extra bets on that. It has ensured that there is much more inspection and stricter enforcement. This leads to better compliance rates. The contamination of meat is rapidly decreasing. This means that there is better compliance. At the same time, I note that this year 58% of all inspections should continue to lead to corrections by NVWA inspectors on the floor of the slaughterhouse. I therefore believe that poultry slaughterhouses are still not sufficiently responsible. It's getting better, but it's far from good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	We see companies here that have literally shit on public health. Isn't it impossible for you to sell chickens that have shit on them? You're not gonna do that, are you? What the hell were you thinking? But we see it happening. My first question was: can the Secretary of State guarantee that public health is not at stake? I'll name two companies: J and H. Those companies have had 11 written warnings for a multitude of infringements. A salmonella chicken was simply taken into production. There were no studies of listeria bacteria. It was all about things that were necessary. Eleven warnings have been issued, but no fines have been imposed. How is that possible? Should I put the Secretary of State on his blue eyes, I don't know if the blue or brown are........................................................................................................................................................ Can we be confident that public health is guaranteed when it comes to chicken slaughterhouses, the chicken industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	I fully agree with Mr Van Gerven that the practices observed in those years, which are also the subject of the reports to which he refers, cannot be accepted. I have also said that in those years the NVWA did indeed not manage to act well enough against it. Enforcement was not strong enough. For this reason, the cabinet already stated in 2013 that enforcement by the NVWA had to be improved. An improvement plan for monitoring poultry slaughterhouses has been part of this since 2015. That improvement plan is now in progress. It leads to improved results, but as we discussed earlier, we are currently in the middle of this whole improvement of NVWA. Mr Van Gerven's question is whether the cabinet can guarantee that food safety is never at stake. As I keep saying, it is the responsibility of business to ensure that food is safe. The NVWA checks as closely as possible. It also does so as strictly as possible, to ensure that companies take that responsibility. For example, as the number of inspections has increased significantly, twice as many inspections have been carried out in poultry slaughterhouses this year as last year, and compliance has improved. It's still not perfect, as I just said. It still has to be better. I also believe that poultry abattoirs still need to take better responsibility for ensuring that meat coming from the slaughterhouse is clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Secretary of State did not address a specific situation, namely that companies J and H were warned eleven and nine times but were not fined. How can I know if these practices have changed? One or two warnings: alla. But eleven warnings without anything happening? So I have to say that the Dutch Food and War Authority is a lapdog instead of a watchdog. However, the Secretary of State can convince me that the practice has now changed. Is he willing to make public all the reports, to this day, that Omroep has requested Gelderland? So we can check what the Secretary of State says here. Finally, I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State agrees that salmonella and listeria in chicken meat should be subject to a zero policy. They can't be in there when it's sold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr Van Gerven asks me to make public all the reports called for by Omroep Gelderland. They've been made public. Call Gelderland has...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	Until now, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	... a P.O.B. request filed. All requested reports have been made public. That request was made in May 2015. The regular planning is that in early 2017, in a few months' time, the Chamber will be informed about the results of the improvement plan for the poultry slaughter. Then the Chamber gets a full report. If Mr Van Gerven wants more of a mid-term report, we could do that, but I prefer to just report to the Chamber at the time we were planning to do so, early 2017. The Court will see that compliance has improved considerably. The Chamber will also see, but she can already know, that the NVWA has substantially strengthened its enforcement policy. The situation described by Mr Van Gerven can therefore no longer be avoided today, as sanctions continue to increase if infringements are repeated. One of the toughest sanctions that can be imposed is, for example, to reduce the speed of the slaughter or even to shut down the slaughter. This year, too, the band speed of a slaughterhouse has been reduced a number of times. This costs the company incredibly much money, but it is right that it should happen because it has to comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	I, too, would have liked to have the Minister of VWS here, but my question is now addressed to the Secretary of State. How many chickens are slaughtered per hour on one slaughter belt in one slaughterhouse? How many chickens?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	I didn't know I ended up in a quiz show. In general, Mrs Thieme knows these things by heart. So I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	It's 10,000 an hour, and sometimes 12,000. So that's three chickens per second. At the moment a supervisor is there and with his or her eyes blinking, three chickens have already been slaughtered. How does the Secretary of State intend to monitor with a tire speed so high that 10,000 chickens per hour are slaughtered? It is impossible to check for abscesses, salmonella and poop bacteria, nor for animal welfare. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this band speed should be reduced structurally for the sake of public health and animal welfare?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	I have been in a slaughterhouse myself and I can confirm that speed is sometimes staggering, but the enforcement by NVWA is not based on a 100% control in any sector. Targeted inspections are being carried out everywhere, with policies over the past few years to focus these inspections more and more on the places where the risks are greatest. So these are times in the process where the risks are greatest, or abattoirs have been found to be more frequent. This way the NVWA can focus its inspections better. That's exactly what's happening. I have also just said that this year the number of inspections in poultry slaughterhouses is double that of last year. That shows that the NVWA is much stronger on top of it. I welcome the support from this Chamber for this much stricter approach taken by the NVWA, because in previous debates in this Chamber there has been some criticism, which also comes almost daily from the poultry sector. The NVWA would supervise too closely and impose fines too quickly. I therefore welcome the support from the Chamber for this rigorous approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	Even if you made it even stricter, it's 10,000 chickens per hour. No man can control that properly, even if you add ten people to it. Shouldn't the tire speed be lowered or do we again choose the economic interest to slaughter as many chickens as possible per hour in order to keep the price low? Do we choose quality and animal welfare? Or do we choose the bulk production and the staggering tire speed of 10,000 chickens per hour?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	The enforcement and supervision of the NVWA should be targeted in such a way as to ensure that the business community takes its responsibilities and maximises its chances of taking action. In the case of abattoirs that repeatedly commit infringements, the NVWA will therefore not delay to lower the tyre speed, in order to be able to inspect better. Companies that take their responsibilities well, therefore also have more freedom and less burden from the NVWA. That is the policy that is being pursued. Therefore, where this responsibility is not sufficiently taken, action and intervention is being taken. Each time infringements are detected, the penalty also becomes sharper, slowing down or even stopping the slaughter process altogether as the ultimate remedy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	Omroep Gelderland has received this data and is actually waiting for the latest data, for example that of 2015. The broadcaster has submitted a WOB request and has indeed received everything from before that date, but has had to call after it very often. People have been very busy with that. It's 2016. Wouldn't it be a very nice gesture for the people of Omroep Gelderland if the Secretary of State also sent the 2015 data that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	As I said, we intend to report on the improvements achieved by implementing the improvement plan as early as 2017. I have already said that supervision is strengthened and enforcement is stricter. The NVWA is much more on top and carries out many more inspections...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	I'm gonna suspend the meeting for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	We shall continue with oral Question Time. I apologize for the short interruption. A colleague of ours has become unwell, as you have seen. Luckily, she's well taken care of. Let's move on. I don't know who was next. Mrs Thieme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mrs Dikkers wanted to know if the Secretary of State also wanted to send last year's reports to the Chamber, so that Omroep Gelderland could also take note of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yeah, that was her question. I'm willing to do that. I already mentioned that we are reporting on the period from the implementation of the improvement plan at the beginning of 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	No, Mrs Thieme, you cannot ask another question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u23	She wanted it now, not just in 2017. I'd like to do justice to her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-3.u24	No, Mrs Thieme. I'll see if there's anyone else who'd like to ask a question about this. I think the answer was clear. I thank the Secretary of State.
