ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. All speakers have four minutes to speak during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. In Turkey today, we are throwing anyone who dares even a hint of criticism into jail. We are moving from a rule of law to a regime driven by terror in no time. Those are the words spoken by the Turkish Nobel Prize winner Orhan Pamuk last weekend. Around 100,000 officials, police officers, teachers and mayors have been dismissed without any form of judicial process. About 30,000 have been arrested. Let there be no misunderstanding: the Christian Union also condemns the army coup, because without democracy there is no rule of law. But the knife cuts both ways: without a rule of law there is no democracy either. Where the Dutch cabinet is silent at the moment, the Turks speak. For example, the Minister for Economic Affairs, who was recently in the Netherlands. He said about supporters of Gülen: we are going to punish them in such a way that they will be begging to be killed. Yes, even within our borders, Erdogan's witch hunt causes unrest. His accomplices with clicklines and blacklists provide polarization, threats, and an exodus from so-called Gülenschools. The Turkish consul lectures the mayor of Rotterdam. Ebru Umar was no longer safe on vacation. And as early as 12 August, the cabinet received a list of Turkey's Gülen organisations. I would like to know what the cabinet has done with this since 12 August. We see here the long arm of Turkey in action. It is clear to the Christian Union that there is no longer any democratic rule of law in Turkey. That's why we need to draw a line and confess to colour. Mr Voordewind has already called for the Turkish ambassador to be sent home and for the Dutch ambassador to be brought back from Ankara for consultation. Since our Prime Minister's phone call and Mr Koenders' visit have not helped, these are the logical next steps. I'd like to hear a response on that point. Since last summer Turkey has de facto said goodbye to the European Union's candidate country. However, hardly any Member State dares to say that. Respect for the rule of law is also a condition for visa-free travel for Turks. So there can be a line through that too. I would also like to hear a response to that point. After Erdogan's counter-coup, more than 25,000 Dutch people signed an online petition from the Christian Union stating that visa liberalisation or EU membership cannot be achieved. That also means no more pre-accessional fees to Erdogan. On behalf of the more than 25,000 signatories, I ask the government to comply. I'm handing over a thick phone book to the cabinet through the chairman. We can be good neighbours with Turkey. We need to discuss humanitarian refugee reception. But that is of a different order than to embrace Turkey as a European partner. My direct question to the cabinet is: how did the events of last summer change our relationship with Turkey? Furthermore, Turkey now wages war against Kurds and fights it in Syria. At the same time, Turkey is our NATO ally. This will enable the country to use Article 5, which obliges us to assist Turkey in military terms. That's very unwelcome. Is the Prime Minister prepared to address these concerns within NATO? The values of our democratic rule of law are at stake: freedom of religion, freedom of the press, political freedom, protection of minorities. That is why I call on the Cabinet to make the following four points. One: condemn Erdogan's political cleansing. Two, suspend visa-free travel. Three: suspend EU accession talks. Four: act within NATO to address concerns about Turkey's military actions in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u3	I now give the floor to Mr Samsom. Oh, Mr Kuzu has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u4	Mr Segers said in his contribution that the Netherlands and Europe can become good neighbours with Turkey. Is it in line with good neighbourliness that a political party in the Netherlands supports the other neighbour at the eastern border? We are talking about an alleged terrorist organisation, at least according to the Turkish authorities. Does it suit a good neighbor to support a terrorist organization, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u5	If Mr Erdogan were here and I had the chance to meet him, I would at least shake his hand. That's the first thing. I would talk to him about the rule of law, the value of the rule of law, freedom, the protection of minorities and religious freedom. That's what I was gonna talk to him about. If the organisation referred to by Mr Kuzu is a terrorist organisation according to the European Union, according to the international community, according to the Netherlands, we will of course draw the line there. But I have no idea which organization Mr Kuzu is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u6	On 8 September 2016, MP Voordewind, member of the ChristianUnion Group, was present at the opening of an office of the YPG in The Hague. According to American organizations, the YPG is associated with the PKK. Does Mr Segers think it appropriate that such an organisation should be described as 'hopeful' and 'what good is it to open an office in The Hague'? Does he think that's appropriate? Does he think that's a form of good neighborhood?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u7	Those are our allies. Those are our allies in the fight against ISIS. These are the boots on the ground in the fight against the darkest black jihadism we know. That is an organization that we support, which supports the United States with weapons and all kinds of other support, which we should support more. In the fight against the evil of this time, jihadism, those are our allies. They're in the first line of fire. It is indeed encouraging that they are fighting against it and, more importantly, that there is more room for minorities and diversity in the area under their control than we are currently seeing in Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u8	You mentioned the YPG and good neighbourliness, Mr Segers, but you know as well as you do that Turkey is present in Syria, that it is also fighting IS, Daesh. We have also seen that YPG militias opened fire on your good neighbor on 27 August 2016. What's your reaction to that? Do you still think you should be present at an organization that opens fire on your good neighbor? Do you think, then, that the enemy of my enemy is my friend? What kind of curved reasoning is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u9	I am very concerned about Turkey's priorities, especially since it is also a NATO ally once again. The country is obsessed with Kurds and the situation of Kurds. It has given more priority to the fight against Kurds than to the fight against ISIS. That is not my priority, but Turkey's priority. That's what I'm really worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u10	I now give the floor to Mr Samsom on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u11	Mr. Chairman. Parents who no longer send their children to school because they would be associated with the wrong organization, because they have been excited or scared by others. Entrepreneurs who can't or dare to do business anymore. Threats. Intimidation. Stone through the window at organizations. The media that are obstructed and threatened in their work. They are scenes that do not belong to the Netherlands, which are not allowed in the Netherlands and which we must do something about, with everything we have. "Fuck you" is then, with all due understanding for the first emotions of our Prime Minister too, an extremely poor answer. The cabinet really needs to come up with more in this kind of situation. The letter also contains more than just that first reflex. That's a good thing. The letter we received yesterday contains a range of intentions, but I feel uncomfortable that it is still inadequate, without us having all the answers on our hands. This problem is more intrusive than that of young people or a conflict between two organisations that has got out of hand. Everyone feels that. This is about how we live together in the Netherlands, what values we share and who we are; and who they are. As far as I am concerned, there is indeed a 'we' and a'she'. However, the dividing line does not go between Gülen and AK, as Turkey is trying to force us now. The dividing line also does not run along religious or ethnic lines, as some parties, including in Dutch politics, like to invent. No, "we" are we who love our way of life: freedom, tolerance, equality, justice and democracy. Those are values that everyone can choose for and that you can all belong to, regardless of the color of your skin and whatever the place of your cradle, regardless of the god you worship. Whether you're of Turkish, Moroccan, Chinese or Frisian descent, whatever you're attracted to, what you believe, what you vote or what origin you still want to do: that's up to you, in this beautiful free country. But in our Netherlands we ask everyone to at least choose those common values of equality, freedom, democracy, tolerance and justice. And we're asking to act on it. So that goes beyond the laws and rules of this country. If they are transgressed, there must be action; let there be no misunderstanding. But we will also have to address each other in other and perhaps more effective ways. The events of recent weeks show that these shared values lack too much, for example, in parts of the Turkish-Dutch community. I hope the government is aware of how essential it is that we do not rest until we have resolved that. We leave the "pleasure" behind us, and we see this letter as a first step towards a society where we unite in all our differences around those typical core values that make this country so beautiful. It is clear that this fire is being ignited from Turkey. Let us be clear that we condemn the coup. A military dictatorship is reprehensible. Period. Just as reprehensible is a dictatorship of the majority in a democratic system. That seems to be happening in Turkey now. I understand all the parties in this Chamber who come up with proposals to do something about it. We are all running up that escalation ladder to make sure that things are better in Turkey and that they comply with the basic rules of the rule of law and democracy. I am not going to do that in this debate. This is not because we are afraid of firm action, because if it is necessary it must be taken, but because it is precisely because you have to leave it in a diplomatic conflict for the government to rise up the escalation ladder in the right way. Should the controlling power consider that additional measures are needed, we will come up with them, but I have no reason to believe that the cabinet underestimates this at the moment. My appeal to the Cabinet, and indeed to the Chamber, is: let today be a clear sign of how we want to live together in the Netherlands and what we ask of each other. Let us be as clear as we think of what is happening in Turkey at the moment and what we want to do about it, and let us put the government to work on that task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u12	In the meantime, the Foreign Affairs spokesperson of the PvdA Group, Mr Servaes, spoke about the relationship between events in Turkey, violation of the rule of law and visa liberalisation. He doesn't think it's wise to start visa liberalisation. Does Mr. Samsom say that after him?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u13	Yes, but that is also a factual observation. Some of the 72 conditions I can't exactly reproduce the numbers to touch or even directly relate to the functioning of the democratic rule of law. As long as these conditions are not met, there will be no visa liberalisation. I just heard you pleading for suspension. You can rest assured, there is nothing to suspend, because nothing has yet been set in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u14	It is true that respect for the rule of law is a prerequisite for visa liberalisation. Indeed, we can hope that the European Union or the Netherlands will abide by that. At the same time, Mr Samsom says that we should not go up the escalation ladder. Then you must say quite clearly that with this violation of the rule of law, with the way political prisoners are treated and with the firing of judges, there can be no visa liberalisation. Well, that's a big line in that statement, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u15	I could not fail to underline Mr Servaes' statement. In this case, I am also doing so because I very much agree with it. At present, the conditions necessary for visa liberalisation are not met in any way in Turkey. Let us be clear, visa liberalisation will only take place if those conditions are met. Ergo, it's not happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u16	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u17	We are dealing with a European Union and a European Commission that says: we are continuing to talk; it is still on the agenda and we are simply going to talk to Turkey about visa liberalisation. Then we can't just sit back and say, "we're not going up the escalator ladder"? Then there must be a very clear signal: we do not want this, point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u18	That signal is there, but is it a solution to say "we throw the towel in the ring, we just stop"? What then improves the rule of law in Turkey? Then what improves the situation of the people there? Nothing. That seems to me to be a clear answer. I don't think we should want to. I think our commitment is here: to make things better, better in the Netherlands but also there. After all, we suffer if things don't go well there. That's got a lot of people in it. So I also support the efforts to make sure that things are getting better. I support any attempt to do so, whether it comes from the European Commission or from the Netherlands. It is clear that, if the conditions are not met, visa liberalisation will not apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u19	Mr Samsom says he wants to cooperate in any solution, but he is the main cause of all this misery. The policy of the Labour Party in recent decades has been one of open borders. "Come on in and do whatever you want. We are politically correct. You must not take into account our Dutch standards and values and our rule of law." This is the result, Mr Samsom: the scum from Turkey is the boss on the street. Not the police are the boss, but the thugs are the boss. They dance to police cars; they threaten council members. Why don't you say something about that? Why do you not say that this is not possible and that people who do so have no business in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u20	I've condemned the riots in Zaanstad, because that's what you're referring to, long ago. Proposals have already been made to address this problem. If you are going to involve that in this debate, you will take it into account the situation in Turkey. Honestly, it has nothing to do with that. This is riot, guys who don't want to and can't do good. They need to be addressed and addressed, where necessary and possible. It's as simple as that. Whether they're Turks, Moroccans, Chinese or Dutch, that's what we have to do. If you are going to involve yourself in the Turkish situation, you will not understand and we will not be able to work on a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u21	That is what the whole debate is about. Did you not see that after that unfortunately failed coup in Turkey in Rotterdam, throughout the Netherlands, people with thousands of Turkish flags were waving as support for dictator Erdogan? They don't like the Netherlands at all. They're not Dutch Turks. They have shown that they are Turks and that they care about our country and the rule of law. That's what happens in Zaandam. Again, dancing to police cars, but the mayor does nothing. Do you know what the PvdA mayor of Zaandam, Mrs Faber, yelled yesterday? "We are in consultation with them to see if we can still come to Poelenburg with a community center." For the people who threaten council members, who dance on police cars, people you brought into the country, let's get a new community center arranged by the PvdA mayor. Are you still out of your mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u22	You don't, because you're confusing two more things. It's okay. That feels rhetorically good, too. But it's really a different problem. What was happening in Rotterdam, I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, but perhaps you were not paying attention at the time. We are clear on that. People who live here, people who have chosen this country, choose the Dutch values or should at least do so. If they do not, they must be addressed or addressed. Unfortunately, what is happening in Zaanstad has been happening in medium-sized and large cities for many years. For many years there has been an effective approach to this. Unfortunately, it is not applied equally quickly everywhere; we have seen that. That must be done; let that be clear. But if you're gonna tie that situation to Erdogan again, you're not gonna understand. The problem is much bigger than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u23	By the way, these are Dutch citizens, in this case Turkish Dutch. But my question is about the following. Mr Samsom mentioned values. Let me be clear about this: we stand for these values, we stand for the democratic rule of law, we stand for equality. Mr Samsom mentioned it in an opinion article in the Volkskrant, I believe, that people who would not support those values would not be part of it. Then what are we gonna do with these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u24	That's a good question. That is what is at the heart of what we are doing right now. We note that in the Turkish-Dutch community, as well as in other communities, there is too large a group of people who do not choose these values or with insufficient conviction. So we have to do something about that. The letter contains elements for this when it comes to the imams and the organisations that represent them. We need to develop and develop these elements further. As I said in my speech, this is likely to become an exercise in impotence because we do not have so many instruments at our disposal. However, that is no reason to put the weary head in the lap to do nothing about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u25	Yes, but it's Minister Asscher, Minister of PvdA House, who states that he doesn't want to talk to organizations that wouldn't bear those values. By the way, that is what I am going to talk about in my speech. Mr Samsom just said to Mr Wilders that this does not contribute to solving a problem. How does not engaging with organisations contribute to solving the problem you want to solve, Mr Samsom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u26	Mr Kuzu, you have to choose now. You said at the beginning of your first interruption that you also stand for those values, that you stand for those values of democracy, freedom and equality. Then I would also expect a representative, certainly from someone with your background, to do his best to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands wants to stand for those values. That's what this minister does. It is right that he says: listen, the conversation starts with the intention to get out; if it is not there, then it stops and we will find other ways to get together, because we have to solve this together. To be honest, I do not understand that you say on the one hand that we are in total agreement, so also with Mr Asscher, that we all have to take these core values into account, but that you say on the other hand: yes, but if there are a few clubs that do not want to do so, then we will leave it at that. Well, I'm not gonna let it go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u27	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u28	That's exactly the point. If people don't stop there, I think you're supposed to talk to each other to convince each other on those values. That's the PvdA I knew ten or fifteen years ago, which I once joined with passion. I see exactly what is happening why the PvdA is failing on this subject as well. Could it perhaps be that those values that we are talking about are explained differently to one group of people than to another group of people and that other group of people you are talking about say, "Just choke on it!" Do you think you can still understand that, Mr Samsom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u29	No. Despite the light conspiracy tone in your question, the answer is simply negative: no, those values apply to everyone and are equal for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u30	Mr Samsom just had it there in an interruption with the Christian Union, with...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u31	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u32	Mr Segers, I'm sorry that he doesn't want to give an order to the cabinet to suspend the talks on visa liberalisation. Does that also apply to the suspension of accession negotiations? Doesn't he want to order that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u33	That is the same thing. At present, Turkey does not in any way fulfil the conditions for accession. Frankly, in the last few months, Turkey has become 20 years further away from that. That's the situation, but that's no reason to stop talking to each other. The chapters that are now on the table are, by the way, about matters that we should like to settle with each other and with which people in Turkey are better off, regardless of whether they ever result from membership. I think that at the moment there is a great need in Turkey, perhaps not with the government but with the people who live there, for matters such as human rights and the right judicial devices. So I would not like us to give up our efforts to improve, but at the same time it is quite clear that Turkey is not meeting the conditions at the moment and that it has moved further away from that situation in recent months rather than getting closer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u34	Then I find it very strange that the Labour Party does call for this in the written contribution. There is literally the question of whether, in view of the emergency situation, the government agrees with the PvdA Group that accession negotiations should be stopped. Your contribution to the government or what you say outside this Chamber seems to be different from what you say here in the Chamber. In the written input, you call for a halt to the accession negotiations, but here you say: no, don't do that. It's not getting any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u35	Not if you ask your question like that, but as far as I know, that was not in the written submission. That seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u36	I'll just grab it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u37	Then you will come back to that later, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u38	I understand that Mr Samsom says that Turkey is turning away from Europe and from our values, but we must keep talking. I support that, too. In this light, I find it strange that Mr Samsom supports Minister Asscher, who no longer wants to talk to some Turkish organisations, so wholeheartedly. If these organisations are prohibited, that is of course clear. When these organisations make rabid statements, there is every opportunity to say on behalf of the cabinet: as long as they say things like this, we will not get anywhere. Could Mr Samsom reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u39	Now we are going to reflect together on exactly what the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is planning. In my opinion, he can explain very well how he wants to ensure that everyone in this country, organized or unorganised, wants to conform to the core values that we all love. He has already taken many initiatives to this end. Over the last few years, he has talked to organisations of Turkish-Dutch origin. I think we should go through with that, but sometimes you can be as strict with each other as clubs don't want to come to the table. Aboutaleb did so when he organized a reconciliation meeting as mayor of Rotterdam and a few clubs managed to get the blunt whim not to come. And then it went crazy for a while; so can I. Then you're looking for a method to move on. So we go together in the direction of the ideal society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u40	That's a long way to go, but we're taking another step. Now I understand Mr Samsom. He says it's gonna have to crack now and then. What happened in Rotterdam, I fully support, but the Minister of Integration does not want to have a conversation in advance and places conditions on it, such as taking back the glorification of certain things in relation to Gülen's supporters. Then you don't come to a conversation. I can imagine that with those statements at a meeting, I think it was a party meeting that was just as strong, but I would rather have Aboutaleb, who then pierce and say that there is a need to talk than Asscher, who does not even want to talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u41	I think there is enough reason to make it clear to each other once in a while what this country is about. If an organisation has made a few statements that are in no way compatible with the Dutch rule of law, I think it is not surprising that the Minister says: that is not how we are going to talk. Let's see what happens next. You know as well as I do, also from your career as Minister, that you need to use some other means once in a while to ensure that the situation is moving towards a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u42	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u43	In my case, "sorry" used to help. That's what school's been doing lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u44	Mr Pechtold was way ahead of our time on that point! I remember that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u45	I came up with that question because I very much supported the written contribution of the Labour Party. So I thought it was weird that Lord Samsom now said he wouldn't give it to me. On 26 July, the PvdA Group really wrote: "Does the government agree with the members of the PvdA Group that negotiations should be suspended and that there can be no further negotiations on Turkey's accession as long as the declared state of emergency continues in Turkey?'. That was clip-and-ready. Now Mr Samsom is taking a step back. I think that's a shame. I therefore hope that Mr Samsom will support his group on further consideration and continue to argue with us that the negotiations should be suspended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u46	I think we will come back to that in the second term, but I did not intend to abandon the constructive line we have chosen, and we have always had.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u47	I also have a question about the talks with Turkey. It is amazing that Mr Samsom says that we need them to be able to talk about human rights, the rule of law and the importance of freedoms. Isn't that what the Council of Europe and association agreements are for? We are not going to negotiate an EU membership with Russia to talk about human rights with Russia, are we? That's a very wonderful route, isn't it? You must now stand up for the same rule of law and indeed suspend those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u48	If that would help to improve the rule of law there, I would like to think about that. Once again, we do not shy away from any means. I would like to take advantage of all the means we can use to improve the situation there. Sometimes there is reason to suspend the talks. We have not had discussions at all for a number of years, and to be honest, there is not so much going on at the moment. But I cannot see that suspending it, apart from the fact that it feels good here and that it is a beautiful symbol, contributes to resolving the situation, which Mr Segers and I want together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u49	It contributes to a clear position on human rights. It contributes to supporting people in Turkey who are now sitting in the corner where literally the blows are taking place, namely the minorities. It contributes to the credibility of the European Union as a community of values, which stands for the rule of law. It contributes to the support base, including in the Netherlands, for the same European Union as you say: there are borders, and now the borders are so crossed and the prospect of Turkish EU membership is so far away that we must indeed cross that border; then we can and must say no. That would help. Why doesn't the PvdA choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u50	Because I don't see any reason for that right now. For example, I see opportunities to improve the lives of the 2.7 million refugees who are in Turkey, all of whom have not voted for Erdogan. That is what Mr Segers has to say, isn't it? We must also be able to stand for this together. It is necessary to remain in dialogue with Turkey to ensure that the conditions of refugees there continue to improve. I want to keep having that conversation. For example, there are still a lot of discussions on the rule of law in Turkey, on the judicial system, on the prosecutor's office and on the legislation there. I have the ambition to improve the situation there. This ambition may be somewhat exaggerated, but that is the essence of Europe and also the essence of Social Democrats: we have the ambition to improve the situation elsewhere. I'm not just gonna let go of that ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u51	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u52	I want to talk to the whole world about improving human rights and the rule of law. We need to talk to Turkey about the humanitarian reception of refugees, about good neighbourliness and good relations, but we should not do that in the context of EU membership, which everyone knows is not going to be. This is unbelievable for the European Union and for those who look very critically at the European Union. It is also unbelievable if we want to do so much work on human rights and the rule of law and stand for it. We need to get rid of that perspective. Then we can indeed talk to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u53	If that were possible, I would agree with that. But if you let go of that perspective, I'm afraid you don't have an alternative route to keep intimate conversation. Yes, by a few other threads, but Mr Segers knows as well as I do that the Council of Europe has less expressive powers in this respect than other instruments. If Mr Segers can convince me, because we are not that far apart, that if you let go of that route, because he wants to give a basic signal, another route is open to improvement, I would like to think about it, but I would ask Mr Segers to do the opposite. I believe that we can very well send the signal to Turkey, and we have already done so, that we find the situation unacceptable at the moment and that we believe that Turkey does not comply with the fundamental values of the rule of law and democracy. That's what we reported. So you can also send that signal separately from the discussions on improving the situation in Turkey. We are not that far apart; let's see if this can be bridged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u54	Do I understand correctly that Mr Samsom says that you simply need the prospect of accession in order to have a good discussion with Turkey on human rights? There is also the association agreement from the 1960s. There are also discussions in the Council of Europe, which offer plenty of opportunities to have a strong conversation without leaving the sausage of accession meaninglessly hanging over the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u55	That is a repeat of Mr Segers' question. You say: there are other, equally good routes imaginable. I have just argued that the Council of Europe really is a less penetrating route than the route through the accession talks. It can be done without that perspective. You are now suggesting that that perspective will be there in a few years' time, but everyone knows that there isn't. It is not about the prospect of accession; it is about staying in dialogue about the fundamental values that we share in Europe. If Turkey wants to comply, we invite it to do so, but then it will have to comply with it. We've been in those conversations for many years now. We interrupted them for a while, somewhere at the beginning of this century, and the situation did not improve, at least not in Turkey. So that's the route to a solution? Is that the best way? But here too, we should not hold on to each other around symbols and principles, as if we had to put a flag somewhere to show that we fundamentally disagree with Turkey. I understand that very well. I also understand that the termination of negotiations could be such a flag. But I ask you to consider what sacrifice is being made by the Turks themselves: the stagnating of any improvement that could be achieved for them. And it's also my ambition to bring them that improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u56	Doesn't there remain any ambiguity? It is said that we need to maintain the prospect of accession a little while while everyone knows that this is becoming less realistic every day. That puts evil blood back in Turkey, where people think: yes, they say it but they don't mean it. Isn't it much more a fair route to say clearly: that perspective is simply no longer in place, but we can have good relations in another way? Isn't that a much less hypocritical approach than the one being put forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u57	I do not want to take over the word 'hypocrite' immediately, but Mr Van der Staaij puts his finger on the sore spot. That's exactly the tension we're in with each other. Mr Van der Staaij feels that tension when he says that we should stop. This gives an uncomfortable feeling, because there are no more improvements to be achieved by another route. But it also gives me an uncomfortable feeling when I say that we must continue, because I too, like Mr Van der Staaij, see that the prospect of accession is farther away than ever. I agree with Mr Van der Staaij when he says that we are in an uncomfortable situation. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u58	Mr. Chairman. Don't deny your origins, but don't deny your homeland, the Netherlands. That is the message of D66 to every individual in the Netherlands. You are who you want to be, whether you're from the Achterhoek or Ankara. But we must all abide by our clear Constitution, which is the basis for our actions and the values of our rule of law. Fortunately, the vast majority of them do the same. As far as I and my group are concerned, people are judged on their actions, individually and not as a group. We must ensure that we import the contradictions from Turkey to the Netherlands. This is not only a responsibility of the Turkish Dutch, but also of the politicians here. It is precisely for this reason that we must ensure that Dutch politicians go along with the tidal wave of intolerance. There's such an enormous urge right now to make business black and white. Why now that enforced correct of two camps: right and wrong? We have a beautiful Constitution in the Netherlands and a balanced and updated Code of Criminal Law. The Netherlands is a strong rule of law and I am proud of that. The Prime Minister rightly expressed his disgust at the cafeteria model that some of us are trying to make of our rule of law. I agree with him that that is unacceptable. The Constitution belongs to everyone and to everyone, but it is 100%. However, as politicians, we must be careful not to want to add all kinds of rules and standards to our rule of law. Our policemen and women are well trained and equipped to deal with challenging situations, including the nuisance in Zaandam. What do policemen who do their job well have to do with inflammatory qualifications like "pleasure!" And "scum of the ledge," that's what I'm asking Prime Minister Rutte. My advice to him: do not be provoked, rely on the rule of law and on the people in practice, and then carry it out. An agent from Zaandam told me yesterday in Pauw that they are doing everything they can to deal with troublesome young people, no matter how difficult that is with the video camera of a vlogger in your neck. As far as I'm concerned, Rutte could take an example from the serenity and control of that agent. But fortunately, the letter from the cabinet is a bit better. Kameleon Rutte exchanged Wilders' wisdoms for reasonable language before writing them. We condemn the coup in Turkey, but we are equally critical of Erdogan's repressive reaction to that coup. Our mission to the cabinet is: keep your back straight towards Erdogan, stop being blackmailed by a dictator and by a shaky deal in which refugee shelter is exchanged for visa liberalisation. Make it very clear that this Turkey, with all its violations of the important values of freedom and democracy, cannot become a member of our European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u59	Mr. Chairman. History teaches us that dictators should never be admitted; not a millimeter. Democracys must show strength in such cases. But the reaction of the cabinet to Turkish action does not speak of strength, but of total weakness. The Dutch response to both the cleansing in Turkey and the Turkish interference in our own country is laughable. Prime Minister Rutte even said at his weekly press conference that he had no leads on this. A story that nobody takes seriously at all. Think of the letter from the Turkish consul to Mayor Aboutaleb, the click lines or the Dutch terrorist list published by the Turkish state press office. There is no sharp Dutch conviction at all. There's nothing. Nothing's happening. Prime Minister Rutte has made himself completely dependent on Erdogan with the migration deal. The Turks can blackmail and intimidate us. The cabinet gets put away like a little boy. We need to show strength. Break Erdogan's long arm. Here's what I want you to do. One: take the Turkish ambassador out of our country. Two: no visa-free travel and never Turkish accession to the EU. Three: introduce economic sanctions against Turkey. Four: find allies within NATO to banish Turkey. Five: finally stop the Turkish state's influence in our country. Ban the financing of Diyanet mosques by Turkey. Thousands of Lower Turks are not loyal to the Netherlands but to Erdogan. We saw it when they completely annexed the Erasmus Bridge in Rotterdam. It was like an occupation force. We prefer to say to them: turn in your Dutch passport and go back to Turkey. We never have to see you here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u60	Mr. Chairman. On 15 July an attempted coup d'état took place in Turkey against Mr Erdogan's regime. I have to be honest: it's a shame that this coup didn't work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u61	I am going to ask a question about this, because I think what Mr Wilders says is quite fundamental. Together we are representatives in a democratic body. We're talking about another country. You can say whatever you want, but Erdogan was once a democratically elected politician where a coup with military means was fired. In some cases, a coup can overthrow a terrible regime, but at least you have to know what comes next. That is what I want to ask Mr Wilders. He's disappointed that the coup didn't go through...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u62	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u63	In short, what would the world look like after the coup?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u64	At least that would be a world without Mr Erdogan. I had very much welcomed that, because the coup is still in progress, but is now headed by Mr Erdogan. He purifies his country. I wouldn't be surprised if later it turns out there were executions. He's overthrown democracy. He has his own influence all over Europe. I didn't start that coup. That is what the Turks have done, and I am sorry that they have not succeeded. Madam President...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u65	No, I really want an answer, because now Mr Wilders is not giving it. What do you think will happen after that coup? I hope he's not so naive as to think that a coup always creates a better world than before. It might be a fundamentalist coup. It could be an army coup that's just as violent or even more violent. If Mr Wilders feels genuinely democrat...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u66	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u67	...how can he support a coup like this, by force, and say every time it's a pity it didn't happen without knowing what would have happened next? When I ask him that, he just says, "Now Erdogan stays." What was the perspective of this coup that we should support?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u68	I think a military regime would always have been better than Mr Erdogan is. I expected this interruption a little bit, just not from the leader of the CDA. That is why I would like to remind you of the last coup and I would like to blame politics and especially the CDA for their hypocrisy. Look at 1980, when there was a coup in Turkey. General Evren dismissed Demirel's regime. The then Van Agt cabinet, led by the CDA, was then a great support of VVD Secretary of State Van Eekelen. I have a headline with me from De Telegraaf of that time: Cabinet-Van Agt supports the position of that Secretary of State. What happened right after that coup, when it was fresh, up to a few days old, and we didn't know what was going to happen? The first person to visit Turkey was a member of the Van Agt cabinet, led by the CDA. Mr Van Eekelen then said: what a sigh of relief people have slept because the military have put an end to this terrible regime. Mr Bakker of the CPN then put questions to Prime Minister Van Agt, who said that the cabinet was behind it. Without knowing what the outcome was, he said: the CDA believes that Mr Van Eekelen was right to go there first and we supported that coup indirectly. So don't be such a hypocrite. Before any outcome was known, the CDA sent one of his rulers, saying: great that this happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u69	Getting 1980 back, I have to say: a handsome boy who brings in the pieces of that time, but there are two differences. The most important of these is that if you want a military coup, which I do not support then we knew who supported that coup, namely the army. Mr Wilders doesn't even know who did the coup, because the top of the army says he didn't support it. So don't talk to me about 1980s. This is a democratically elected President. I am very opposed to him, but I must say that Mr Wilders prefers a military regime, without knowing what that coup was going to mean at all. That's a big deal. I am not happy with what Erdogan is doing now and I find it a disgrace, but Mr Wilders said on that night: top, a coup, with all the dead in it. I find that really disgusting for someone who is a democratic representative of the people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u70	Same as CDA Prime Minister Van Agt, the leader of the CDA. He supported Secretary of State Van Eekelen, who went there. He said: it is good that there is an end to that terrible regime and that soldiers there have put an end to a regime of political murders, or words similar to that. Those were the questions in the Chamber. Prime Minister Van Agt said I support that 100%. You may have a copy of De Telegraaf from that time, so please don't be such a hypocrite.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u71	It is precisely the 1980 coup that has struck deep wounds and left scars with the Turkish people. That was also the reason why it went on the streets on 15 July to oppose this coup attempt. However, Mr Wilders says that it is a pity that it did not succeed. Does Mr Wilders therefore realise that there would probably have been more deaths than the 250 that have now fallen? That more than 2,000 people would have died? That there was just a bomb thrown at the parliament building?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u72	I, again, didn't start that coup. The Turks did it themselves. I'm not the coup leader here. The Turks did it themselves. All I've said is that since they started it, it's too bad the coup didn't work out. The rest of the world, including the rest of the Chamber, I have to be honest: perhaps the cat looked out of the tree after you. It was deadly quiet. If the coup had been successful, we would probably have heard Mr Buma here, just like Mr Van Agt at the time, say: great, we are rid of that man. Then the Labour Party, the VVD and perhaps others... Everyone was quiet! Only when they saw that it didn't work but failed did they all back up behind Mr Erdogan. I can say a lot of things about you, but I think you're the only one who immediately convicted the coup. The rest of them were quiet. I was honest: off Erdogan, the sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u73	That I would receive a compliment from Mr Wilders! Yes, we spoke directly against the coup attempt, because we know as no other what effect that has on people in the Netherlands with a Turkish background. We've seen that in the days after. The difference between you and all the other group chairmen is that they are expressing their support for democracy and that you are expressing your support for a military coup attempt, which would kill hundreds, perhaps thousands of people. Then what is your message to all those innocent people who died? I'm not saying you started that coup attempt, but the least you could do...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u74	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u75	The least Mr Wilders could do is speak out against a military coup attempt. He doesn't do that here. With that, he shows that he is not a democrat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u76	In Turkey, the army is historically the body that has always protected the legacy of Atatürk. That is why, unfortunately, it is not the first time a coup has been committed while Islamists were in power. Again, I didn't do that. They did. Normally you would say: army, stay far from politics. I agree with everyone. Atatürk has made Turkey great with the separation between Islam and state. In my opinion, and in the opinion of a number of Turks, leaders, including Mr Erdogan, have violated this principle. The military has always had the function of protecting this principle. That is why it is not comparable to the Netherlands or other Western democracies. That's why I think the role of the army, whatever you think of it, is a better one. You say I'm not a Democrat. You know, Erdogan is not a Democrat. It's turned out to be. It turns out again, The man is an Islamic dictator, with the cleansings in his own country and elsewhere. So it can't be much worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u77	I am talking about Mr Wilders here. As he continues to speak on this subject, he shows very clearly what he stands for. In our view of democracy, of our values, wouldn't it also mean that you should make a strict separation between army and parliament? I would therefore like to ask Mr Asscher and the Prime Minister, through this interruption, the following question. Mr. Rutte, does Wilders have to pick up now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u78	You will have two minutes, Mr Kuzu, in which you can ask questions to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u79	I am sure you will receive an affirmative reply from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Mr Erdogan is not a democrat. His words are: democracy is a tram where you step off when you have reached your goal. So Mr Erdogan is not a democrat. He has imperialist dreams all over Europe. He has no respect for the West. He has people in Germany making a satire prosecuted. He, at least his Public Prosecutor's Office, is bringing a Dutch journalist to justice in Turkey. I'm talking about the brave Ebru Umar. Why isn't anyone else talking about her? It is threatened by Mr Erdogan's supporters. They don't even make it a secret. Ebru Umar even had to flee her home. It's unworthy of a civilized country. I called Mr Erdogan a total freak years ago at a press conference in the House of Lords. The whole world was ashamed of that: how could you not say that? It may not be very diplomatic, but I think that, as far as ordinary citizens are concerned, half of Europe now feels that way about that man. He's a danger. Not all of his supporters, but many of his supporters, including those in the Netherlands, are now a danger to our public order. We have seen how thousands of Erdogan-Turks occupied the Erasmus Bridge in Rotterdam every day after the failed coup. It was a sea of Ottoman flags that intimidated the Dutch. What the hell is that? Why weren't there any Dutch flags? Why were they Turkish flags? They're snitching on the Dutch. They are serving criminal charges against Dutch citizens in Turkey. They terrorize Dutchmen. I remember a few years ago in Germany Erdogan appealed to a large stadium full of Turks and said: I command you not to assimilate. That was true for all the Turks in Europe. Mr Erdogan's message to the Turks in the Netherlands was: you cannot assimilate. That is why it has to do with Zaandam, I say to Mr Samsom. The man we're talking about here doesn't think Turks should assimilate. What's the consequence of listening to that? What is the consequence of listening to Erdogan, Samsom or others? Then we'll see what happens in Zaandam. Then there'll be "villains-Turks" I'll call them that because that's what they are. They're pulling people off their bikes, smashing windows, threatening council members. That's impossible, isn't it? That's unacceptable in our country, isn't it? We're standing by, we're looking at it, and we're not doing anything. Prime Minister Rutte calls very tough: fuck off. But he's not doing anything. The Turks are laughing at him. What do they do after Prime Minister Rutte's ruling? They're gonna dance to police cars. That is the impression Mr Rutte has made. Where's the authority? Is the police the boss on the streets in the Netherlands or is the scum the boss in the Netherlands? They listen to Erdogan, are waving flags on the bridge in Rotterdam and in Zaandam they don't care about our order and democracy. That's not possible. We have to be the boss again. If you do things like dancing on a police car or threatening a city councilman, you don't belong in the Netherlands. They often have a dual nationality. When they dance to a car, there's destruction. If a councilman is threatened, there is a threat. They're both crimes. Pick them up, take them to the police station, take them to court, and if they are convicted, then take their Dutch passport and expel them from the country! I can't do that right now. I have been asking this Prime Minister for 15 years, I mean a Prime Minister, because he hasn't been there very long to change the law and to make this possible. Only that would help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u80	I can go with Mr Wilders such a big end. You don't threaten councilmen. You don't destroy property. You're not interfering with the democratic process. Mr Wilders brings this with such passion. Now I missed that same passion when congregations were meeting and council members were thinking about setting up azc's. No, that's when we were told: Resistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u81	It was about nonviolent resistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u82	It was said to resist. Where was that passion for democracy when councilmen were threatened and cases were destroyed? Where was Mr Wilders' passion then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u83	It was exactly the same. If you were honest... You may be smiling now, but if you were honest, it would please you if you were just to tell an honest story, Mr Pechtold, you would say that we have always said: resist, but do so democratically and do it without violence. If people have done this in a non-violent way, they deserve the same treatment as those Turks in Zaandam now. You do it, you can resist, fine! I call for this, too, but always without violence and always democratic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u84	A democracy also includes a parliament, not a fake parliament. That means that you do not give up on institutions that they might be jealous of in the rest of the world, because they are so far developed here and because we by a majority here do not force things from the minority. It's bullshit that Wilders reacted just like he did today. It's because it's Lower Turk that he's raging right now, but just once against pig heads carrying Dutch people throwing fireworks at kids in an azc saying: stop it and stop it... Then he was quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u85	What I referred to earlier as a fake parliament, we can improve. We can do that together. Today, with my group, I have presented an initiative to introduce a Swiss-style referendum on popular initiative as it is called. In a very, very, very distant past, Mr Pechtold probably doesn't remember it. Then D66 was also for referenda. Why? Even then, Mr Van Mierlo wanted that to ensure that the gap between citizens and politics was closed, so that no one had to call it a fake parliament anymore. I find you on my side with that proposal, if you really mean what you are saying. Otherwise, it's from your side, not from my side, hollow phrases. I see that I have been over my speaking time for four minutes. I would like to say to the Prime Minister: perform and make sure that we are back in charge in the Netherlands. No one, no one, no one understands that there are people dancing on a police car, that councilmen are threatened, and that the mayor then says, "Let's talk about a new community center." Unbelievable. If you tackle the people when they have committed a crime and have been convicted by the judge, if you take them away from Dutch nationality and expel them from the country, I'm sure one or two planes will suffice. Then people will see that it is not accepted and then they will behave. That's what it takes. If you are in the Netherlands, wherever you come from and whoever you are, you are welcome to stay if you behave. But if you don't, you get out, if you can. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u86	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this century, Turkey seemed to be facing a golden future. Prosperity rose. There were talks with the PKK to end the decades of civil war. Turkey finally met the conditions for accession negotiations and they also started in 2005. Democracy was rescued from the grip of generals and Erdogan was Prime Minister. Times change. In 2011, a lot of what was built up was destroyed. Erdogan was president. What happened? What went on in that man's head? I would say that he could not bear the wealth of power and has emerged as a dictator. Nothing more and nothing less. Since the failed coup d'état, he and his party have rapidly broken down the democratic rule of law. My party has rapidly lost confidence in Turkey's democratic future. Only the media controlled by the Turkish Government still claim that democracy has been saved. More than 40,000 people have been arrested, 17,000 of whom are still in prison and are being charged. 2,000 institutions are closed. 100,000 officials have been suspended or dismissed, including 20,000 teachers and 3,500 prosecutors and judges. 4,500 soldiers have been fired. In Turkey, 150 journalists are imprisoned, more than in any other country in the world. There are reports of inhumane treatment of detainees and torture. Ministers call for the extermination of Gülen supporters. This way there can be no business as usual. This has a major impact on our relationship with Turkey. GroenLinks was always in favour of accession negotiations between the EU and Turkey. However, now that Turkey is falling into a dictatorship, these talks do not make any sense. Freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law are basic requirements for negotiations, also in line with the 2005 framework between the EU and Turkey. Does the Foreign Minister agree with me that this is why we should stop negotiations? Tensions have also arisen in the Netherlands as a result of the coup. Some are threatened, others are afraid to stand up for their beliefs anymore. Perhaps the most poignant and ridiculous: children have been home for weeks without education. Turkish state institutions have stirred up these tensions. The cabinet has made it clear to the Turkish Government that interference is undesirable, but that message has not arrived. It is up to our government to do something about this, because so far it has not been possible. What's the government's plan? I come to the organisations whose interference in the Netherlands is becoming tangible, such as Diyanet and the Ministry for Turks abroad. Their role does not contribute to integration. I therefore appreciate the attitude of Minister Asscher. Ankara cannot represent groups of Dutch in any way. Can the Minister for Integration indicate what the role of such organisations should be? Against the embraces of the long arm from Ankara, no middle finger from The Hague should stand. It is not surprising that Turkish Dutch are drawn to Turkey when Erdogan invites them and the Dutch Prime Minister pushes them away. It would have been wise if the Prime Minister had kept his "pleer op" against Turkish-Dutch rioters in his underbelly. Pick up where, I'll ask the Prime Minister. They're boys who were probably born in the Netherlands. They have a Dutch passport; they are Dutch. They must participate in Dutch society and democracy. What does the Minister of Integration think about this? Has the Prime Minister's "pleasure" also been expressed on his behalf? I'm rounding up. The coup in Turkey is a problem in Turkey. However, it also shows that many people with a Turkish background in the Netherlands do not feel like a Dutchman. That's what worries me. It is time for this Prime Minister, Prime Minister of all the Dutch, as he himself says, to say that they belong, that they are fully Dutch and that this cabinet is also there to listen to their concerns. Now's the time to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u87	Madam President. The failed coup was seized by the Turkish government for an extreme reaction. We have heard it done today in smells and colors by colleagues. Mass cleansing, mass detention; grossly violates freedoms and human rights in Turkey. Journalists and lawyers end up in prison, tens of thousands of officials are fired. In this way, annoying elements are being combated which hinder the reform of President Erdogan and his party, and Turkey is increasingly developing into a democratic dictatorship. As a result, relations between Turkey and the West are under increasing pressure. We see that in the letter from the government, too, this tension is clearly expressed. It is stated that there has been a protest against it and that it is being discussed. We've been a while now. Does the Foreign Minister notice that there is some effect of the widespread criticism of the Turkish Government's approach? Are all the efforts already having any effect? For the SGP, it is clear that Turkish EU membership is absolutely undesirable, now and later. Wouldn't it be good to clarify that now? If you look at the current state of affairs, the question is whether the association agreement of the 1960s does not contain too far-reaching privileges for Turkey. I am thinking of the example that is also mentioned in the letter, namely that imams cannot be asked to follow an integration programme. For example, there are other privileges attached to that association agreement. Is that treaty still tailored to the current circumstances? What opportunities and handles does this association agreement also offer to strengthen Turkey's appeal? In the Netherlands too, the failed coup has consequences. We all know the examples. I mention the list that Turkey published with Gülen organisations in the Netherlands, and Mayor Aboutaleb who received unwanted Turkish advice. In fact, I would like to ask the same question here as on the other point. I have heard many times here about the annoyance of Erdogan's long arms and about the fact that the Turkish community is under curate. Do we see any effect of all efforts to make it clear to Turkey that we do not benefit from this? Finally, I come to the riots, the intimidation, the threats. The question was whether the Zaandam riots had anything to do with what this debate was about. Well, they can deal with it if there's also a loyalty dispute at stake, and if it's not just a bunch of bumps. They can deal with it if the question also plays a role in how involved one is in Dutch society. I see that today's documents also express concerns about this loyalty to the Netherlands and to the Dutch legal order. So this is indeed a point on which I would like to hear the Minister on integration. Does he see a prospect of improvement on that point? One thing is at the forefront of the SGP: the rule of law also requires strong enforcement. We do not accept it from anyone when we come up with arguments and excuses to prevent this legislation from being observed and to resort to violence. I would welcome it if everyone, including the Prime Minister, were to distance themselves from it in round language, provided that the language was such that it could also be repeated without difficulty in Parliament. I had a slight hesitation with that today. The Prime Minister has a little more free hand if he makes sure it doesn't come into parliament. But if this is to be repeated in Parliament, then he has gone a little too far for us. This leads to frowny eyebrows, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u88	Mr. Chairman. Barely recovered from the terrible attacks in Nice, I watched this summer a day later bewildered and appalled at the images about the coup in Turkey. There was dismay over more than 200 deaths, tanks in the streets and a parliament bombed by F-16s. They were unreal images of a country where many Dutch people go on holiday. But there was also bewilderment. It is known that I am not a fan of Erdogan, to put it politically correctly. There is a lot to be done in the way he leads his country. But in a democratic country, a coup can and must never be a means of reaching another government. In a democracy, elections are the only way to do that. I must say that I was also surprised that in the first days following that coup, no EU or NATO headpiece went to Turkey to indicate that such a coup was found inadmissible. Because this coup was unacceptable, Mr. Chairman. It was inadmissible. The way in which part of the Turkish community in the Netherlands responded to the coup was also unacceptable. I understand people were worried. So I also understand that they wanted to express those concerns. It's okay in this country. But the intimidations and threats that followed are inadmissible. What are you thinking about threatening journalists? Dutch children who had nothing to do with the coup were called traitors. They were not referring to the land of the Netherlands, but to Turkey. This part of the Turkish community shatters it for all those Turkish Dutch who are integrated, who do understand that their future lies here in the Netherlands, and who do understand that our freedoms are not a choice menu from which you can selectively shop. Freedoms apply to everyone in this country, just like laws and rules, by the way. That is what we, as government, have to enforce. That's not gonna happen. That is why I can be very angry when I see that no intervention is taking place, not on the Erasmus Bridge, nor on recent events in Zaanstad. Those events in Zaanstad are separate from the coup, but not separate from Turkey, because one of those vloggers says very nicely: I am an Erdogan warrior; fuck you, everyone in the Netherlands! Yeah, that doesn't make you so happy. Then you're gonna go, to put it politically correct, make yourself uncomfortable. In fact, it makes me very angry, because if I were dancing on a police car, I'd know one thing for sure: I'd be taken off very quickly. If I were to demonstrate with a group of good citizens on a bridge, it doesn't matter whether it's in Rotterdam or somewhere else, and I'd be misbehaved, I know one thing for sure: then the police will intervene very quickly. How come that doesn't happen on the Erasmus Bridge and on that bunch of wheeldrivers in Zaanstad?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u89	I was at that demonstration at the Erasmus Bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u91	Yeah, that's right. There haven't been any incidents there, you know. There were indeed people with a flag walking over the bridge. That is true, but there have been no incidents on the Erasmus Bridge. The night before at the consulate, yes. You have been misinformed; VVD correction. But here's what I want to ask you. You say that you stand for freedoms and achievements, but is the right to demonstrate not reserved for a group of people in our society who are involved with the country of origin?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u92	If you were listening carefully, Mr Kuzu, you would have heard that I am defending that right of demonstration. I say, I even understand that they want to express that. They can do that in this country. Here it is. They can. I find it less appealing, but I have no objection to people demonstrating, not even bringing a Turkish flag. I understand that this may seem threatening, but fortunately it can be done in a free democracy such as the Netherlands. But then threatening a journalist who wants to make recordings is not allowed. We won't tolerate that. And, Mr Kuzu, if we're talking about it, you have one of those demonstrations I saw you in. Do you also distance yourself from the people who stand there with the sign of the Grey Wolves, the people who stand there and praise Hamas, the people who promote Hezbollah, the people who make the gesture of the Muslim brothers, not even such a fresh couple? That's where you walked in. Are you gonna stand back from that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u93	I am not going to distance myself from things that Mr Zijlstra commands me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u94	Aha. It's called double morale.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u95	The point is that in your contribution you use the example of people who have walked with flags across the Erasmus Bridge and at the same time defend the freedom of demonstration. How hypocritical do you want to be? If you are talking about defending and promoting the Dutch values, this is exactly the example of the law, roughening and hardening of the Netherlands. Wilders might say it in an unconventional way, which even you criticize. But what your VVD is doing is exactly going along in that same stream, using not Mr Wilders' words, but telling it in a more neat way. This makes the VVD scarier than the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u96	Listening is rather difficult, I have to conclude after what you say, Mr Kuzu. I stand for the freedom of demonstration. I stand for all the freedoms in this country. I insist that freedoms apply to everyone and that you cannot selectively shop from them. I find this so disappointing, because I didn't use a word of Frisian, Russian, Spanish or Turkish in between. I was very clear, but I just see you running away from the question I'm asking you. That is the question: do you dare to put on camera, eh, then we can broadcast it on a website................................................ Or do you find that equally uncomfortable? Are you going to go a little bit of freedom...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u97	I don't find it uncomfortable at all to give comprehensive explanations on those organizations...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u98	Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u99	No, it's not that simple. So that's the way the VVD, and those moaning people in that class over there, describe these organizations as well. Call them all in one breath, and then say that our culture is superior to all other cultures. That is quasi-fascist, Mr Zijlstra. I say, almost. So when we talk about certain freedoms that apply to one group and not to another, we immediately point the finger at them in an imperialist-colonial way: you belong to distance from them; and if you do not, you are not one of them. I almost hear him say, "Fuck off."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u100	The debate is about content and civilisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u101	Anyone who looks at Mr Kuzu's contribution will see that Mr Erdogan's long arm is present on the spot. Democracy means that freedoms apply to everyone. This applies to a liberal party such as the VVD, and fortunately that also applies to almost all parties in this house. I find it disappointing that Mr Kuzu shop there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u102	I'm making a personal statement. Mr Zijlstra constantly talks about Erdogan's long arm. I would like to talk about Mr Zijlstra's long toes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u103	I'm not going to make that a personal statement, Mr. Chairman. I continue my argument: how can it be that if the average good citizen does something, he is dealt with immediately but boys like Zaanstad get away with it? When I hear one of those Zaanstad wheeldrivers say "we're in charge here," it shows that he's obviously getting away with things that the ordinary, decent citizen can't afford. That's gotta end. We have a lot of options for dealing with these types of wheeldrivers. So track down the guy who's threatening a reporter. Pick up that little boy who insults a cop in office. Give a restraining order to those troublemakers instead of the neighborhood residents. And pull those thugs off the roof of that cop car. Last Saturday, I happened to be at a 911 Safety Day. There was a demonstration with a police dog, where someone was standing on a rooftop of a car. I've never seen anyone so easily removed from the roof of a car. Then just do it. But then the police must be supported by local authority and by us. Our agents are quite willing to do that, but they shouldn't get any trouble afterwards. It is important that we all, mayors and MPs, radiate that. You don't have to choose daddies and keep them wet; you have to hunt these guys down with all the resources you have. Our authority must be restored. Rules apply in our country, and if you break them, we will act consistently. Every time. Don't de-es-ca-learn, i.e. don't do anything and treat it with caution. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If these Zaanstad guys say "we're the boss here," there can only be one answer, namely: no, we're the boss here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u104	That's right. Those guys are tough. It can't be hard enough. But I am surprised by the surprise of Mr Zijlstra. Because the VVD has been on the buttons at the Ministry of V and J for six years. She's been in charge of police and justice for six years. What happened in those six years? What did the VVD do in those six years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u105	A lot. We have passed all kinds of laws on the duties of integration. We have the football law, as he is popularly called. I myself was able to take the initiative with Mr Spekman, then Member of the PvdA Chamber. It gives enormous opportunities to local authority. What can you do? The mayor is authorized to act in the event of violations of public policy. He can impose an area ban, a co-operation ban and a group ban. He may also take all kinds of measures relating to serious nuisances, issue an emergency order and issue a general power of enforcement of public policy, which is Article 172 of the Treaty. He can issue an emergency regulation, search preventively, monitor cameras and apply administrative detention. The mayor may give orders to combat serious nuisances. And the supervision of public entertainments and facilities is a ground for intervention when things go wrong. I can mention more measures if you like, but perhaps the President will be angry. There is therefore a great deal to be done; we have made that possible. Why do things go well in one municipality and not in the other? Because you have to use those resources. My plea is: we have the means, use them and restore authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u106	These measures, at least some of them, have been in place for much longer than six years. It's about the mess that the VVD caused inside Security and Justice. You undressed the police. Nota bene half of the police stations are closed; that is VVD policy. You have not made the Netherlands safer but more unsafe, and now you are here boasting with an argument that it should all be much safer. What about your responsibility? What has the VVD done in the last six years? And don't come up with measures that already exist!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u107	Some of these measures did not exist yet; some indeed did. We've been in power before. In my view, this is widely worn in the Chamber. It has nothing to do with left or right, but with maintaining public order. I understand that Mr Bontes V and J are happy to be involved. Wait a little longer and then it will be about Mr Teeven's receipt. But of course that has nothing to do with this problem. It has to do with wheeldrivers who do not feel at home in the Netherlands and who do not take our rules, laws and freedoms seriously. So you have to set boundaries and maintain them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u108	This debate is partly about domestic relations. Mr Zijlstra's speech contained a clear statement on this subject. However, it is also about our relationship with Turkey. I think Mr Zijlstra is a little less clear about that. I have asked more often about the negotiations with Turkey on EU membership. I can ask about that now, but I think I'll get the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u109	There's a chance, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u110	I therefore ask another question. What else needs to be done in Turkey before the VVD Group says: now we are suspending the negotiations; even more so, now we are stopping?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u111	You're actually asking the same question, but that's okay. I'll give you another answer. As I said before, Turkey is not becoming a member of the European Union as far as I am concerned. However, I make a difference between inland and abroad. In the interior, according to the VVD, we need to ensure that our freedoms, our standards and our society are properly defended. In other countries it is important that we represent Dutch interests as best we can. Sometimes you have to be pragmatic. Once again, as far as I am concerned, Turkey is not becoming a member of the European Union; we should not do that. However, we must also ensure that the borders do not open there and that we do not have to deal with thousands of refugees coming in here every day. There is already talk of an integration problem. If thousands more a day are added, the problem of integration will become even greater. I have often said in the past: I believe that the cheapest part of the agreements with Turkey is the fact that we are talking about admission, but I can be quite clear that this is not going to happen as far as we are concerned. I am in no way talking about what is happening in Turkey, because it is contrary to everything I stand for as a liberal. However, there are more countries, even more so, most countries have regimes and states of law, or rather, a lack of them, which I as a liberal have nothing to do with, but we are still doing business with them. That is what we are doing with Turkey. But again, there is no justification whatsoever for what is happening there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u112	That answer is similar to Mr Samsom's: we need to talk to Turkey. I'm not against talking to Turkey at all. I am not against good neighbourliness, agreements on humanitarian reception of refugees and so on, but not in the context of EU membership. In fact, a link is being established between the refugee deal and the accelerated talk about accession. Instead of stepping on the brakes, we are going to talk about this quickly; that is the state of play. In Turkey, the rule of law is trampled, minorities are not safe, judges are removed from office and people are imprisoned without trial. What else needs to be done? There will come a time when you say: we can talk about everything, we want to talk to all kinds of countries, but we are not going to talk to Turkey about EU membership anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u113	I think the first part of my answer is quite clear: as far as I am concerned, they are not becoming members. Then talking is beautiful. It is the cheapest part of the refugee deal, namely: no refugees and we are talking about it. I'm very clear about that to the Turks. I am very honest in this: as far as I am concerned, they will not become members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u114	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u115	Mr Zijlstra is not that clear, because accession is being discussed more quickly. This option is still on the table, while Turkey is further away from Europe than ever. In the light of our own credibility, the standards and values that Mr Zijlstra wants to uphold and the rule of law that he stands for will come at a time when you say: precisely in the light of the rule of law, we are putting an end to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u116	That "point" is pretty clear. You can try to change that every time, but I think my statement that Turkey is not becoming a member is very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u117	At the end of Mr Zijlstra's input, it is clear how incredibly hollow his words are when he uses the big words, a bit à la premier, about the Turks in Rotterdam, on the Erasmus Bridge and in Zaandam. Then he says that this should not happen and that Turkey should not intervene in this way in the Dutch situation. But when it comes to what we can do, he says, "Well, keep talking." We know that Turkey knows that it can do what it wants because the consequence is not drawn. Indeed, Prime Minister Rutte is going back to Turkey on his feet and feet. He is going to talk again about visa liberalisation and he is already doing so and about accession to the European Union. Then Mr Zijlstra can say here before the Dutch stage 'we do not want that at all', but he does not think that Prime Minister Rutte is going to Turkey with the announcement: joke, we do not want it at all, we are only talking for the stage? If it is really about getting rid of Turkey's influence in that country, then the very unfortunate consequence is that we cannot talk to Turkey about accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u118	To be honest, I do not see the link between these two matters. Mr Buma stood here a few months ago, six months ago, I think, when it came to the agreements on migration and Turkey. He said to me at the time: this is going to speed up visa liberalisation. I made it quite clear at the time, and I say this again: the whole process started when there was no refugee problem in sight, namely in 2011, under the heading of 'Remember'? Rutte I. That's when that trajectory started. It came out that Turkey could qualify for visa liberalisation in October 2016, which is in two weeks' time, if the cross-compliance conditions were met. That date went to July 1st. Mr Buma I am going to take it back, Mr President; excuse that it takes a little longer, Mr Buma said: yes, but that cannot be the case, so you are going to amend those conditions. Well, July 1st has passed and visa liberalisation has not come. And why not? Because Turkey does not meet the conditions. Mr Samsom said that very clearly. I do not have the impression, and I say it very mildly, that Turkey is now fulfilling the conditions. In fact, we'll see on TV that this isn't the case right now. That deal's clear. Turkey must meet the conditions, like the other 52 countries, which are not all enlightened democracies, such as the United Arab Emirates, Venezuela and others. These countries have also had to meet the conditions. If you don't do it, you don't do it, and you don't get it. That is a very clear, clear line. I am not going to deviate from that, because I think that this clear line should simply be followed, including by the government. I don't have the impression she doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u119	I was talking about accession talks, and also about visa liberalisation. The point is that Mr Zijlstra talks about the Turks who do not comply with Dutch standards in the Netherlands. He is referring to Turkey. But that is not about the conditions for accession, it is about what Turkey has been doing for years and what is now so serious that we cannot afford it to continue. If Mr Zijlstra really wants Turkey's influence in the Netherlands to stop, then we must send a signal. The least signal to this country, which apparently wants influence in the Netherlands, is that we are not negotiating accession to Europe. It does not work to say in the Netherlands that we do not want accession, because your Prime Minister, Mr Zijlstra, our Prime Minister, is in Turkey telling us that he does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u120	As I said to Mr Segers, as far as I am concerned, Turkey is not becoming a member. I don't think there's much other explanation possible. As far as I'm concerned, you might as well stop talking. That's right, that's right. But we also have the reality in everyday foreign policy. We need to look at the Dutch interests. It is also in the Dutch interest, as I say to Mr Buma, to prevent those thousands of refugees from coming this way every day. Then we have a much greater problem of integration. In this sense, I am indeed looking pragmatically at the foreign world, which I immediately admit, because it ensures that the Dutch interest is served both abroad and in the Netherlands. I think that is the job of a representative of the people. I'm trying to do it as best I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u121	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u122	This is proof of the total grip Turkey has on us through that refugee deal. As a result, your whole story about Turkey's influence in the Netherlands is gone. I tell you that what is currently happening in the Netherlands by Turkey cannot be done. If we stand up in this Parliament against what is happening in the Netherlands, we will go to Turkey. Then we'll send the Prime Minister to Turkey and he'll make it change there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u123	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u124	You say that there is still a higher goal, namely the refugee deal, and that is why we are not doing what we need to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u125	You have to separate things, too. If Turkey is trying to influence this, it is not possible. The fact that these guys in Zaanstad say they're an Erdogan warrior has nothing to do with accession talks. That's why you just have to set these guys limits; you have to be tough on them. I once said something about foreign policy, which was translated into the Volkskrant as talking to dictators. Occasionally, if that is in the Dutch interest, we do indeed. Although Erdogan has been democratically elected, he does not have a regime and a policy that I support. I think that there are very bad things happening there, but that does not relieve us of looking in the Dutch interest at whether we are talking to such a person and, possibly, dealing with him every time on the things that are not allowed there and the things that he may be doing here; that is how I know the Dutch cabinet. That's what we keep doing. There's no murmur on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u126	I think that the suspension of negotiations with Turkey goes a long way. That calls for a Council decision. If you do that, you're actually gonna shut the door permanently. However, giving Turkey the signal that it is business as usual and that you could talk further is the other side of the coin. I think there's a way in. You can say that you are shutting down the negotiations at the moment and that there can be no question of further discussion. Would that be a passable way for the VVD? After all, we are now in a very difficult position. Perhaps it is from a different perspective, but I think that you should keep the perspective for Turkey open for the longer term and that there should be talks about human rights. At the moment, however, looking at what is happening now, this cannot be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u127	No, at the moment that cannot be the case. I think that's what everyone said. At present, Turkey does not in any way fulfil the conditions for accession. I have said before that Turkey is not joining as far as I am concerned. It's obvious, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u128	If it is said, also as a diplomatic signal, that there can be no negotiation at the moment and that they are being shut down, that is a very strong signal that Europe is saying: up to here and no further. However, this leaves room for us to do business again in the distant future, when Erdogan comes to his senses or hopefully someone else is present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u129	It is necessary to consider whether signals help in the overall process and whether the Dutch interests are served. Once again, I do not think we are waiting for another stream from Turkey. If you can send a signal at the same time that you make it clear that we do not endorse what is happening there and if this can be done in a good balance, I will not be against it. I can hardly imagine anyone finding it unclear, but I repeat: as far as I am concerned, no membership at the end of the journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u130	Madam President. It was a surreal night, on July 15, when the news of a coup came from Istanbul. Tanks rolled down the street. The president was missing and gunfire sounded. The coup was foiled; a violent overthrow of the government was prevented. We are now two months away and it is very strange that there is not yet a beginning of an answer to the question of what this coup meant, who did the coup, why the coup was committed and what its purpose was. The only one who seems to know is President Erdogan: it is Gülen's fault and his movement. In Turkey, 100,000 people have been fired or arrested. Companies have been dealt with and mayors have been fired. A coup may have been foiled, but in the meantime the AKP has dismantled its own democracy. President Erdogan's long arm extends to our country. There's a hetze going on against everything that's not AKP. The Turkish government hits Turkish Dutch against each other. Possible Gülen trailers are under threat. Kids are being taken out of school. Then this question becomes very intrusive: what values apply in our country? Whose rules are we enforcing here? Who's in charge here? Is it our legal order or is it the Turkish? President Erdogan currently has more influence in Rotterdam than Prime Minister Rutte. Thus the Turkish problem, for example, is being injected into our society by people who live here but are with their heads and hearts in Turkey. Our Prime Minister is sticking to tough words, words for the stage, but not words that bring a solution closer. Rather, they demonstrate the total powerlessness of the Prime Minister and his cabinet. And in the meantime, look at the long letter we've been given. Nothing happens at all. Even talking about the accession negotiations with Turkey and visa freedom is not on the agenda, whereas the first thing we should do is to make it clear that a country that is so interfering in another country is not welcome in our Union. The Turkish government, for its part, has two important tools for exerting influence: the dual nationality and influence through Diyanet, with which it manages to control the mosques. Turkish young people in the Netherlands fulfil their military service in Turkey and swear their allegiance to the Turkish flag. In the Netherlands, we don't even have a military service. For some of those Turkish young people we saw last week in Zaanstad, it wouldn't be bad at all if they got some of the discipline of a Dutch military service. Dutch Turks often have two passports: a Turkish passport and a Dutch passport. You can formally get rid of that, but in practice that hardly happens. We know this is unbearable. Let's be in there. However, we can see at this moment that Turkey is holding our country in its grip. Those Turkish passports are not purely a booklet, but they want to keep influence on the Turks in the Netherlands. They are asked to be loyal through the oath and the conscription. This harms peaceful coexistence in the Netherlands. I therefore ask the Prime Minister, instead of discussing accession, to send EUR 6 billion to Turkey and talk about visa liberalisation, to talk to Turkey about stopping dual nationality. If that happens, you can talk to Turkey under normal circumstances. If that doesn't happen, you'll have to deal with a country that's trying to determine the place by means of devious roads. We can't have that as a society, especially now that we know that's happening. I come to my final paragraphs. The other influence runs through Diyanet, the Turkish Ministry of Religion. The Turkish government pays and appoints imams in the Netherlands. While in the Netherlands church and state are separated, which is one of our great values, the Turkish government and the Dutch mosques are not. This is directly contrary to the rule of law. I know that it is difficult to tackle money flows from abroad, especially when it comes to vague foundations. But here it's just the government, through a department. I ask the government to extend the standards that apply to the Netherlands to other countries too: no money to mosques.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u131	Everyone is, of course, free to try to find something new in this debate. However, I am now a little surprised by that firm position about two passports. Is the CDA against any form of dual nationality? Or is it just the Turks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u132	That's a good question. I looked for "passport" and looked at the government site. The government, not the CDA, says there: "The Dutch government wants to limit dual nationality as much as possible. Your rights will be clearer. Therefore, naturalisation requires you to renounce your original nationality, if possible." We have a lot of exceptions, and they make that in practice everyone who comes to the Netherlands actually retains their double passport. Turkey does not make it impossible to surrender the passport. Technically, it's possible. Only, we said: it's very difficult, because then you have to give up all rights, and that's why we don't do it. Now something's changed. In an unacceptable way it has now become clear that the Turkish passport for many people in the Netherlands is no longer a paper they cannot get rid of, but a sign of their first loyalty. I thought the image at the Erasmus Bridge was really weird. I therefore agree with Mr Zijlstra. I do not agree with Mr Kuzu, who thinks that all this is normal. This is the Netherlands. This is the country you're going for, with your passport. If you're going for Turkey first, you're going for that passport. I find that much stronger than it was, and for that reason I say: let us enter into that conversation in the case of Turkey before we talk about accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u133	For a moment I thought I was following Mr Buma, and then he spoke a few intermediate sentences, which led me to lose the thread again. What is it? We agree that each individual should be able to decide for himself whether or not to keep a nationality. Turkey, but also Morocco, raises objections or problems, or simply makes it impossible. However, I heard Mr Buma make a clear appeal that people should want to give up nationality themselves. I wonder if that's the biggest problem. A piece of paper doesn't say anything about your loyalty, does it? Your nationality doesn't say anything about how you behave, does it? I fully agree that the kind of images of those flags on the Dutch bridge is absurd. At that point, we don't have to measure each other from left to right. I'd like to know what the CDA thinks about double nationality. I think we still had a CDA Secretary of State with a Swedish passport in the last cabinet the CDA was in. I didn't hear any proposals to turn that in at the time. So I'd like to hear where the CDA is now. Does it only apply to the Dutch Turks because it is convenient, or does the CDA think that everyone should turn in their double passport?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u134	For most countries, the rule is to turn it in. That's a fact. Mr Pechtold says it's just a "paper" or something like that. For a long time we thought it was a piece of paper, which was useful to be able to go back to Turkey. We cannot, however, ignore the fact that the whole Turkish community is currently divided by a theme that is part of the Turkish passport, influenced by Turkey and voted massively in the Turkish elections, when after all these years we thought we would have a community integrated into the Netherlands? We really need to address that problem. It's not like you can't abdicate your Turkish passport. It's possible. That is why I do not address people in the first place. The name of Ebru Umar fell. There are others, whom I have spoken to myself, who want to get rid of their passports, but the Turkish authorities will not allow that. So this problem is much more with Ankara than with all the Turkish-Dutch people here. I want us to say to Turkey: if you want a normal relationship with us, you will do the same as we do with you and then you can get rid of your nationality. I think it's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u135	I promise to keep the question short and I hope that Mr Buma will keep the answer brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u136	That depends on the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u137	I'm gonna try. We agree that if you want to get rid of your passport, you should be able to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u138	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u139	My question is, do you have to get rid of the CDA if you can or can't? And does the CDA still distinguish by country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u140	It is interesting that Mr Pechtold says that, because our law states that you must get rid of it. A lot of people say, "Oh, how unkind of you to say that!" No, that's just the rule. The only thing is that a lot of countries are smart enough to decide that you can't get rid of that nationality and keep it forever. That's why it doesn't happen. But Mr Pechtold is also a supporter of the law, which simply states what I just read, namely that you must renounce. Again, the only reason why that should not be allowed is not because we feel sorry for those people, but because the country of origin does not allow it. So I am not going with Mr Pechtold when he says: well, it should be possible. It cannot, only exceptionally, and that exception comes from the countries of origin. Turkey shows why this is so dangerous. It is not a piece of paper, it is an attempt to influence it until the last moment. You can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u141	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u142	I'm sure I will, although this was still an answer to one question. In short: this is the clarity the CDA wants from the cabinet. The Prime Minister speaks big words for the stage, up to "pleasure" and "fuck off to your own country." This is all on him, but I believe that the Netherlands needs more action than a prime minister who calls for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u143	Mr. Chairman. On 15 July a failed coup attempt took place in Turkey, with terrible consequences: 241 dead and over 2,000 injured. I would like to begin by expressing my deepest condolences to the families of the Turkish people. We strongly condemn the coup. The SP does not want a military dictatorship, but a democratic and peaceful solution to problems. Only the Turkish President seems increasingly to create his own dictatorship. As horrible as the consequences are and as frightened as they are, a counter-coup can never be the answer. The rule of law was already dramatic for the coup, and it has certainly not improved. About 100,000 people have been fired or decommissioned, 20,000 have been arrested and there is mass persecution. Press freedom doesn't exist, and last weekend dozens of elected mayors of opposition party HDP were dismissed without pardon. Turkey has also invaded Syria, where the main target is the Syrian Kurds, who are fighting against Islamic State. My question is therefore how this all relates to the values that are dear to us: freedom of expression, freedom of the press and a functioning rule of law. Can the Prime Minister respond to that? How is it that the Prime Minister, together with Mrs Merkel, rewards the anti-democrat Erdogan with talks about accelerated accession to the EU and visa liberalisation for 70 million Turks? If you want to be credible and want freedom, they can't get through. As far as the SP is concerned, developments in Turkey therefore call for firm measures. Expands the accession negotiations with Turkey immediately. Gives pre-accession support to Turkey. Make it clear that visa liberalisation cannot be achieved at all at the end of the year. Force the Turks to restore the rule of law, release the press, adapt anti-terrorism laws and resume the peace process with the Turkish Kurds. And stand in front of a stop on arms exports to Turkey. I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. I come to Turkish interference in my own country. It is known that Erdogan and his people are greedy in the Netherlands and elsewhere in Europe. In our country too, hatred is spread and a witch hunt is opened for those who think differently by the lobby machine of Erdogan's party. How is it that this Prime Minister does speak as "pleasure!" To our own rotten boys, but doesn't show any balls in relation to Erdogan's far-reaching interference with our freedom? I would like a response to that. From the foster boy Yunus that Turkey was not allowed to be placed with a lesbian couple to the click line of the Turkish consulate, and from Umar's arrest to the lists of alleged state enemies and terrorists. You're not gonna take Ankara, but Ankara's gonna take us. How is it that the Prime Minister is still denying the interference? How much evidence does he want before he actually takes action? Is it not high time that the Dutch ambassador was called back to Ankara for consultation on this matter? The Deputy Prime Minister has been talking to Turkish Dutch and Dutch organisations such as Milli Görüs and Diyanet for years. What did these talks with the so-called allies of our government actually do? I'll give you the answer: nothing! It's gotten worse from evil to worse. Please stop the identification of these Turkish political propaganda channels. Just treat Turkish Dutch as Dutch. It is now more than ever time to combat segregation and discrimination in all possible ways. Let's start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u144	Mr Roemer is obviously talking a lot about Turkey and about what is happening here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u145	That is what I think the debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u146	Could Mr Roemer also comment on what is happening in Zaanstad, for example? That is not because of the coup, but it is about integration, and that is what he himself talked about. It's about a guy who just says, "fuck everybody in the Netherlands." Before the President intervenes, those are not my words, I am just quoting here. How does Mr Roemer feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u147	I find that totally reprehensible. You gotta be tough on something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u148	What does he think about the SP in Zaanstad saying that there are rough diamonds that should only be cut?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u149	I have, of course, also looked at what has been said and in what context it has been said, and it has been quite drawn out. If you've heard the whole story, it's clear he's talking about the neighborhood and what's happened there in the past few years. We do not disagree at all. Everyone in the Netherlands has to abide by the rules and the laws, and if you don't behave like that, you will be dealt with. But it also says something else, something that my partymate was referring to and which I and my party have always referred to, namely that in recent years nothing or hardly anything really happened to good integration policy. We fight for it all the time. If we continue to adopt forms of organisations or schools that stand with their backs to society, they are still interlocutors of this government and we are on the wrong path. That is what he is calling for attention to be paid to, and that is what my party is calling for attention to be paid to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u150	That's clear. I conclude from this that it should be clear that this SP'er wasn't talking about the neighborhood after all, but about those guys, among others, who in your party can't. You're going to perform, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u151	I don't have to act because I know who it is, what he said and what he meant. We're on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u152	You're on the same page? I'm just trying to get that straight. You were perfectly clear, but should it prove that he did not mean what you just said very clearly, and what I very much agree with, my compliments for that, then it cannot be done within the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u153	"As is burnt peat" we say to ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u154	Yes, yes, so you don't want to answer this question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u155	Yes, I just did. No problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u156	I want to be very clear. Mr Roemer pointed out that the integration process in the Netherlands had failed. I just heard him talk about the Prime Minister's statements. How does he qualify those statements? Is he behind that or not? He said: I wish the Prime Minister were as firm about Turkey's interference in the Netherlands as he was about his statements. How exactly am I supposed to qualify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u157	I've been worried about being selectively outraged. That's what I'm worried about. Everyone has to do their own language, the language he likes. I'm not talking about his language, about my language or about yours, but being selectively outraged can't be. If you want to send a clear message to everyone who does not abide by our rules, then you have to act against them. But don't make a distinction when it's populist, while it was a different group last week. It could also be people who make millions or billions of dollars with Libor fraud, and you keep your mouth shut. People who don't behave or cross the line, we deal with. But don't be selectively outraged if it suits your politics as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u158	I fully agree with Mr Roemer. You have to deal with people and not shop selectively. But what if a SP room member tells you to leave or we shut you down when you find Erdogan top, Turkey is your homeland and you're kicking shit here? I'm quoting a SP room member. What is Mr Roemer's reaction to this tweet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u159	You mean Paul Ulenbelt's tweet? That was an extremely stupid and clumsy tweet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u160	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u161	I do not know if Mr Ulenbelt is listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u162	He already knows this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u163	I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u164	Mr. Chairman. My grandfather always proudly told me about the Netherlands during his holiday in Turkey: the country of opportunity, the country of tolerance, the country of Den Uyl. I have the impression that the link with the Netherlands in that generation was greater than with the generation of today. You'll see that in the street scene of recent times, and not just with the boys in Zaandam. You can also see it in intellectuals and academics. Rarely so many Turkish Dutch have felt so Turkish. Does this government understand that if a coup is committed in the country where part of your family lives, you're emotional? That you'd be traumatized? That you'll be okay and I'll be okay and angry? Some people have seen people get shot. They then return to a country in which the Prime Minister says "pleasure!', Get out of here. They come back to a country where people say that the coup was a play and that the integration of these people has failed. Does the government understand that these young people think: is the Netherlands still there for me? Does the government understand that she's losing these people? Does the government understand that she'll make these people even more angry? Not only does the government not understand it, as Secretary of State Dijkhoff pointed out very clearly at Pauw, but it is also hypocritical. In his letter, Minister Asscher talks with migrant organisations, but is the first feat in the Chamber in 2012 to repeal the Minority Policy Consultation Act. The democratic rule of law would be there for all residents, while some people here do not belong at all according to the Prime Minister and Minister Schippers. Turkish-Dutch organisations should be a full interlocutor, but they must speak against threats collectively and without concrete cause. In the rule of law, wouldn't you say you're innocent until proven guilty? Finally. Much of what is said in this debate is uncut Turkish basing, but a stable Turkey is also in our interest, here in the Netherlands. A stable Turkey is in the interest of NATO. A stable Turkey is in the interests of the European Union. A stable Turkey is in the interest of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u165	I would like to call on Mr Kuzu to stop this appalling victimism, by which he speaks as if there are no equal opportunities in this country. Yes, of course, there are cases of discrimination. We're gonna have to go hard on that one. But there is freedom of demonstration in this country. That goes for everyone. It's been practiced, and that's not what this is about. This is about people who don't know how to behave, people who say "my leader" and "my country" and then mean "Erdogan" and "Turkey." Does Mr Kuzu find it strange that there is an opinion on this, whether it is about the Mayor of Rotterdam or the Prime Minister? That's part of it. That's what you call yourself. Then don't go into the victim role. In this country, you have every opportunity to make some of your life. Make a move, and don't go into the victim role. Will you stop that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u166	At the moment when people exercise their democratic rights and stand up for what they think is important, the VVD's answer is: you fall into the victim role. That's crazy. That's crazy. It's just crazy that people shouldn't be allowed to be involved in the country where their grandparents come from, right? So that should not be possible, because the moment you stand up for it, you fall into the victim role. At the moment when there is discrimination in the labour market or when there is ethnic profiling in the police, I hear Mr Zijlstra of the VVD say quite different things. He should be wondering why this is happening. Then look a little further than just highlighting the victim role. The problem is much more fundamental and deeper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u167	It is indeed deep, and Mr Kuzu proves that again. He's acting like we're denying people those freedoms. I don't like the picture, but I understand that you will find something about it when a coup takes place in the country of your parents, grandparents or great-grandparents, that you feel something about it, and that you're literally saying I want to carry it out. Fortunately, this is allowed in the Netherlands. Here it is, in Turkey it isn't. It's okay here. Do not then, if some elements behave badly, pretend that the Dutch people deny you that right. Then you're gonna take victim roles. Then, I say to Mr Kuzu, through the chairman, you will increase the division in society, which we are trying to narrow down. That's why I'm saying stop it. You put away all those people with Turkish roots who are incredibly well integrated here, who know that their future lies here and who know that these freedoms apply to them. You're doing them a terrible service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u168	I do not need Mr Zijlstra to judge whether or not I am doing anyone a bad service. I'm trying to be very clear: stop with the victim-thinking frame for once. This isn't just about people you see in Zaandam. This is also about highly educated people who are constantly being addressed in their background and constantly have to do with all kinds of exclusion mechanisms, which you apparently all agree with. This is also about people who are highly educated and who say: we want to have the equal opportunities laid down in our laws and rules. They experience that they do not get equal opportunities. They see that they are abandoned by a number of political parties that perform all kinds of things for electoral gain. The Prime Minister says, "Fuck off! And then I'm polarizing? Then we're polarizing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u169	I am pleased that Mr Kuzu should not have anything to do from electoral gain. I think that's an important statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u170	Surely Mr Segers never does, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u171	No, Mr Kuzu, Mr Segers has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u172	I like to stick to it. I have also heard Mr Kuzu say warm words about the rule of law, in which you are innocent until proven otherwise. That is true; that is the beauty of the rule of law here. Just now Mr Kuzu asked me to distance myself from YPG. I didn't do that. I didn't want to do that either. Mr Kuzu made a statement last week towards a friendly head of state. He's very committed to foreign policy. How does he assess what is happening in Turkey now? After all, people are detained there without trial, mayors are dismissed and judges are relieved of their duties. Does he distance himself from this violation of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u173	Mr Segers, like me, knows that there is an extraordinary situation in Turkey at the moment. After all, there has been an attempt at a military coup that is unprecedented. I will say in the end: let the democratic rule of law do its job and make sure that all those people get a fair trial. That's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u174	Mr Kuzu has a big mouth against Israel about human rights. He speaks warmly about the rule of law here, but he does not stand up for the rule of law in Turkey. He doesn't stand up for people who are now in prison without trial and mayors who get fired. He's not talking about violations of fundamental freedoms right now. If he does not stand up for those people and the rule of law in Turkey now, all the words about the rule of law here are worth nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u175	I told you, let's get these people a fair trial. Perhaps Mr Segers also knows that from the car of one of those mayors who were removed from office, shots were fired at Turkish police officers? There is enormous ignorance and one-sided news gathering. All the political parties, I see them standing there already standing in the front row to criticise, wondering if that is really what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u176	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u177	We know very well what is happening in Turkey. On the basis of one incident where shots were fired, Mr Kuzu is going to justify or at least justify that 100,000 people have been exalted from office and dismissed and that 30,000 people are stuck without trial. If that is Mr Kuzu's answer to my question whether he renounces it, then all his words about the rule of law here and in other countries are worth very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u178	I repeat: I believe that all of these people should be given a fair trial. The example I just gave was about one incident, but there are numerous other incidents. I will not say here that it all went well. I am sure mistakes are also made, because that is the human nature, but at the moment I see very little understanding of what has happened there. These are the consequences. It's not true that I wouldn't stand for the rule of law. I have made it very clear that I believe that these people should be given a fair trial. But then to stand in the front row and then to invoke this kind of argument in the context of the statement that the relationship with Turkey must be broken and that Turkey is as far away from membership as possible and so on... DENK does not participate in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u179	Mr. Kuzu, let's make it small. A very simple question was asked. At the moment, more than 100,000 people have been fired. Then we're talking about teachers, army people and judges. The only thing I would like to hear from you, as this would benefit your message of connection, is: that is not right; that should not be. The moment you try to stay away from that, your story becomes unbelievable. This is the moment of truth. Just state plainly that this is not possible. This isn't right. This doesn't give a pass. It's going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u180	This is exactly what we're not gonna do. At the moment when an attempt is being made at a military coup, that fighter jets fly over large cities, that something very violent and drastic is happening, we should also ask ourselves what is causing it and what the feelings about it are. This calls on many people to express certain feelings. I spent the summer in Turkey. Here it is pretended that it would all come out of the tube of one man. At the same time, however, the extraordinary situation currently prevailing in Turkey is being borne by opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u181	What I find so interesting is this. We have a colleague here in Parliament who talks about sending the army into the neighborhoods, building fences, banning the Qur'an, closing mosques and preventing radicalised Muslims from being locked up. That's a shame to you. And rightly so, I agree with you. But at the moment the same thing is happening in Turkey. Exactly the same. I don't understand why you don't say "this is going too far." It just goes too far when you light people off their beds and fire 100,000 people preventively. Then don't try to make this right. You shouldn't justify what Erdogan is doing. You should be on the side of all those Turkish Dutch people who feel that sometimes they are being drawn, in the vein of: where do I feel at home, in Turkey or in the Netherlands? They see their community being ripped apart. Those people should defend you, not Erdogan. You do, and that's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u182	There is also a state of emergency in France. You can also see that unconventional measures are being taken in France. In one weekend hundreds of doors are kicked in and people are visited, searched and taken away unannounced. I don't see this room kicking around about that either. I do not see all the spokesmen of the various political parties coming forward to say that is a disgrace. The point is: yes, there is a state of emergency at the moment. There is a great deal of suffering and sorrow. The least we could do then is start to show understanding for what is happening there. Then we say very emphatically: people must get a fair trial. In the end, let the rule of law do its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u183	How many officials were fired in France? I knew this would come as a reproach. I looked it up: there have been 3,600 searches since the attacks in Paris. My question is: how many officials were fired? How many judges were fired there? We both know the answer. Do you know what I think is the worst of this kind of denial of what is happening in Turkey, and I do not dare to distance myself from it? With this you abandon people, even here in the Netherlands. You are making a very strong plea here as to why we should understand the situation in Turkey. Do you know what I expected from you? You should have stood up for all those children here in the Netherlands who can't go to school right now and who are called small terrorists. I would have liked to hear a plea from you in which you say that these children should be able to go to school. We have to live together here. You're from the connection? All I hear is that you speak straight, which is crooked. You should not have a good word for the situation in Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u184	I'd like to do that, if you don't mind. But I have two minutes to speak. If I had four, like Mr Klaver, I would have liked to have gone into that too. With regard to the comparison between France and Turkey, I would like to ask Mr Klaver how many aircraft and F-16s have flown over Paris, Lyon and Marseille. Has the French parliament been bombed? If we include such examples... Those situations are not comparable. But it is about the fact that there is a need. A well-known Dutch saying is: need breaks the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u185	Whoa, whoa, whoa. I didn't bring up France. You began this wretched equation. Secondly, we have a rule of law. It is precisely to ensure that there is no totalitarian regime when this rule of law comes under pressure. That's about the core. The fact that you do not understand this tells me a great deal, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u186	I just said that the opposition parties support the measures that are now being taken. Is there a totalitarian regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u187	It began with the fact that Mr Kuzu of Mr Zijlstra said that this quasi-fascist language was spoken. What Mr Kuzu is doing now is defending a government that is holding or firing 100,000 people. He's asking for a trial, but those people are already fired. There's no trial at all; that's the smart thing about it. May I remind you that, when you joined the House of Representatives, you took the oath or made a promise to the Dutch Constitution? The Dutch Constitution also wants us to promote the rule of law internationally, but I have a very strong impression that you are standing here promoting the Turkish legal order. You say that what Turkey is doing is good, and I understand that. You're pointing the others at France. I'm telling you the truth, and I really mean it: I'm sorry about what you're doing. You were elected through the Labour Party's list, but there is only one thing to do here: to defend your country of origin. Imagine that everyone in this parliament would only defend their country of origin! Then we wouldn't have a parliament anymore. You're at great risk of going that way. This isn't polarizing, this is pulling the proportions apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u188	Of course, that's not true at all. The point is that the Chamber and a number of group chairmen are full of their mouths on promoting the international legal order, but then take the context that goes with it completely out of context. What would we do if what happened in Turkey were to happen here in the Netherlands, Mr Buma? At the time when we are here on behalf of a very large group of people in the Netherlands, Dutch citizens, are we in the process of promoting the international legal order of another country? I'd say don't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u189	Here's what I'm gonna say. One: read not only the Constitution, but also the explanatory statement, okay? It'll make sense. Two: you are defending Turkey and the regime there. Russia, the Philippines, Israel: perhaps to be defended? I can name a lot of countries which also apply the democratic rule of law that we have at least in a different way. But we have old values in this country that are enshrined in our Constitution and belong to our democracy. 149 or perhaps 148 people in this house have no difficulty in condemning a country as you yourself should do where people are being arrested because there is only the appearance that they are involved in a coup of which we do not even know whether it is a Gülencoup or something else. If you want to be a Member of Parliament in this Parliament, you must, as far as I am concerned, choose a completely different position. 'Cause this is the whole thing splitting up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u190	Fortunately, democracy in the Netherlands also means that Mr Buma does not decide who will or will not become a Member of Parliament. That is still up to the Dutch citizens. The example that Mr Buma cites is simply disgusting. When it comes to promoting the international legal order, Mr Buma and Mr Omtzigt stand in the front row to bash Turkey, but in other countries he sits back and does nothing at all. Are you talking about the democratic rule of law in Turkey and those people, Mr Buma, or are you talking about very different things?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u191	When it comes to the Constitution, I also refer to Article 50, which states that a representative of the people represents the entire Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u192	I think you should always give a colleague the benefit of the doubt if he does not speak clearly, but over the last few weeks Mr Kuzu has moved a lot on the foreign front, taking others into account, while asking him to make one critical comment on the current situation in Turkey. He'll lie if he says the opposition supports this. Yes, in the first few hours the opposition in Turkey said: the coup is bad. But in the meantime, as far as you can be there, the opposition has distanced itself from the measures. I would like to focus on one thing, because Mr Kuzu says that everyone deserves a fair trial. 3,000 judges have been dismissed without any form of hearing and hearing. Well, you've got good justice then! How does Mr Kuzu feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u193	At the moment when the state of emergency is lifted, all these people must get a trial. That's what I stand for and what I advocate. On this basis, it is necessary to assess individually whether or not they have been properly dismissed. We also have another example of an action called "purification." In 2013, a number of senior military officers were relieved of their duties. The judge ruled with some of those people that that didn't go well. I'd really like it to go faster. I would very much like it to go more carefully. But the moment there's such trauma, it happens. At the moment when a bomb would fall here, I cannot imagine that we would not do everything we could to go after the perpetrators and those involved and take them down hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u194	Mr Kuzu simply walks away for the umpteenth time from a clear question. How can justice be independent in a country like Turkey, when a few days after a coup, you apparently have a list of 3,000 judges who are all dismissed? Mr Kuzu says that the judge will have to see if that is legal. Yeah, you'll get the cuckoo. Any judge who appears to be somewhat critical or independent of the regime has now been dismissed. Mr Kuzu has taken us all the way through the summer. People with not always a Dutch background, colleagues here, are all put to shit on the internet. So slowly Mr Kuzu has to confess colour once in a while. Is he okay with what's happening right now: 1,000 schools closed, 3,000 judges fired? Police officers, regular civil servants, not the heads of services or anything like that, but normal people are all out on the street in a couple of days. This can only be done if there is a purification of the purest species. Does Mr Kuzu distance himself from that, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u195	Mr Pechtold knows that we do not distance ourselves from all kinds of things at command. What I'm trying to say is this. When there is a list of thousands of people, you must assume that this list will not be drawn up within 24 hours. That should have been done. At the moment, I cannot judge you sufficiently enough, apparently, whether all this has gone well or whether it has gone wrong. I can't do that right now with the information I have. I don't know all 100,000 files, so I can't judge whether that's all right or wrong. I don't rule on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u196	You'll just call your club "DENK," and you won't be able to think about it if within 24 hours there are lists of judges who get fired immediately and then say, "I don't know if that might have been premeditated or not." No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's no other way. I'd almost say don't fall for it, don't fall for it! But now I just want a clear answer, for your own credibility. You went to Netanyahu and said: I'm not gonna shake his hand, I'm gonna kick some ass. You can do all that. But be clear as soon as you are addressed. Then be as black and white as you are. Let me get this straight. Do you have any criticism at this time of what is happening in Turkey, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u197	You're gonna get what you need. I'm not going to make statements based on 100,000 individual files I don't know. You can ask me 100 questions about it, you can ask 100,000 questions about it. I would like to see these 100,000 dossiers examined in detail and a fair course of justice based on that. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u198	We are witnessing a sad piece of parliamentary history, in which an elected representative in the Dutch parliament defends the flagrant violation of a legal order. You are accused of not being clear; you are crystal clear. You are defending Erdogan's actions in Turkey at the moment. You are also defending this with a lying excuse for the opposition to support it. Our sister party in Turkey absolutely does not support that. The same applies to other opposition parties. They do not support the purifications that are taking place there at the moment. If Mr Kuzu is defending this as a Dutch parliamentarians, that is a sad fact. But let me take him to the Netherlands, because here too things happen. I would also like to hear his views on this. The Turkish Government sends lists to the Netherlands via various channels, requesting that they do so and requesting that they act accordingly. How does Mr Kuzu feel about that? What does he think of this kind of action by the Turkish government? Maybe even more important is my next question. At present Turkish children are being called names by other Turkish children or their parents in schoolyards. People threaten each other because they cannot agree with each other through Gülen or AKP. You are a representative of the people who could play an important atoning role in that conflict. Are you willing to do that? So far, I haven't been able to catch you doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u199	Let's be clear: children are just innocent. You shouldn't burden them with politics or conflict. That must not happen here in the Netherlands, and it must not happen anywhere in the world. Children should not be burdened with this. Mr Samsom then asks what I think of the lists that are being circulated. I say very clearly: in the Netherlands, we in the House of Representatives determine how we deal with this. There has also been some commotion about the clicking lists in the past. We did not respond to that at the time. I have also explained here in the Chamber why we did not. We are talking here about lists of the State Press Office. Mr Samsom was also present when in 2013 the Dutch state broadcaster, in the form of the Nieuwsuur programme, compiled a list of the same Gülen organisations. I can still show it to him. Where was he then? So when it happens in Turkey, it's all scary, but when our state television lists are drawn up, it's all clear. Then we should not discuss it and then we should examine it thoroughly, Minister Asscher said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u200	Do not walk away from my question, Mr Kuzu. My question was about the information we received from the cabinet about Turkey's interference in Dutch affairs. That was indeed through the sending of lists, but also through the performance of the consul in Rotterdam, for example. What does Mr Kuzu think of this performance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u201	I'm not running away from that question. I say very clearly: if we get information, it is up to the government and the Chamber to judge it. All the information should be welcome. In the end, it's about what we do with that information. That's what we're talking about here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u202	And what's your verdict on that? You say that it is up to us to judge that. I didn't hear your opinion on that. Here there are spokesmen from all kinds of parties who argue that Turkey should not interfere in this way. They are right to argue that. Turkey should not do so in this way, because it will do exactly what you, fortunately, abhor tension in the Dutch-Turkish community rather than mute. What is your assessment of Turkey's action at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u203	Here's what I see. There's a frame. There is constant talk of long arms. I would like to say that if there is a long arm, it is there, in box K. Rutte called Erdogan, not me! Rutte's on the phone with Erdogan, not me. Rutte gets the information, not me. If such practices are taking place, you should consult your own colleagues, not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u204	I'd almost say I'm giving up. Every time we ask a clear and clear question and Mr Kuzu does not like that question, he talks about frames and long arms that would or would not be there. Just answer my question. Do your job as a Dutch representative of the people. That's my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u205	I'm sorry to say this, but it's shocking how this discussion went. The whole world sees what happened. The whole world sees that a coup is the worst thing that can happen to a country. But a counter-coup that follows is part of that same framework. 100,000 people lose their jobs. Thousands of people are being arrested. There is no longer any form of case-law. That happens and someone's just gonna stand here and defend it. He says, "I don't know all those 100,000 files." If you do that, Mr Kuzu, you will have nothing to do with the rule of law. But it gets much worse if you even distance yourself from it and even call it a frame that from Turkey the long arm affects our society and you do not distance yourself from it. If organizations come here with lists, if a consul takes the measure of one of the mayors in the Netherlands, if you put it all away as a frame again, I am sorry to have to say it, but then in future I can really not take any criticism you come up with seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u206	Mr President, I did not hear a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u207	Thank you, but Mr Wilders has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u208	I was standing here a few years ago in previous cabinets. People, colleagues were very angry when I said that not only rulers but also MPs should not have dual nationality. I was hounded by the same people who are now angry at Mr Kuzu. The reason for that was that if you have two nationalities, you also have two loyalties. With colleague Kuzu it is much worse than that, because he does not seem to have two loyalties, but one loyalty. That's Turkish loyalty. That's not the Dutch loyalty. Mr Kuzu, you are defending the interests of the Turkish Government, Mr Erdogan. Nothing you say really has anything to do with the Netherlands. You are standing there on the bridge with flags of Turkey. You're talking about Turkey here. This is proof that we should not. I would like to ask you the following, because you are an intelligent man, no matter what people think of you. That's, uh, cut it out. Get out of here. Turn in your passport. Get out of Parliament and be a nice MP in Turkey. That's better for you, and that's better for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u209	Someone once said he'd never come to the interrupting microphone, but it's still there. I would like to say to Mr Wilders: get used to the idea that I will stand here even longer. I say this through the President to all the other Members of Parliament, because I do not stand here in the interests of any other power. I stand here in the interest of a large group of people, Turkish Dutch, Moroccan Dutch, Dutch citizens who share these emotions and feelings. I would particularly like to say to Mr Wilders: get used to the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u210	I would like to make a personal statement on behalf of a number of my group members, because Mr Wilders is now doing something perhaps worse than what Mr Kuzu has done. He linked Mr Kuzu's behaviour to the fact that Mr Kuzu had two passports. I have three Turkish-Dutch colleagues in my group with a double passport. They have a totally different attitude from Mr Kuzu. If Mr Wilders were to take it out of his head once and for all to put everyone on the same footing, we could have a normal debate in this Chamber. That's hard enough as it is. On behalf of my group, I say that this double passport has nothing to do with double loyalty. My MPs have sworn allegiance to the Dutch Constitution and will act as such. That sometimes does not apply to Mr Kuzu is a completely different matter. That has nothing to do with that passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u211	Since...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u212	No, that was a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u213	But he does speak to me. By name and by name, he speaks to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u214	It's a personal fact, but you're about to have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u215	I actually have a hesitation in going to the interrupting microphone here because I think that we have already spent far too much time on a representative of the people who did not come here on their own, but on Mr Samsom's slips, then split up and now has the highest word here, although that may be different in a subsequent period. With a lot of MPs, from whatever background, you had such integration that at some point you didn't notice at all which country they came from. If Mr Kuzu appears to be a representative of the Turkish people instead of the Dutch people, he is unworthy of a Dutch parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u216	Mr Van der Staaij should get used to the idea that in this country, in our Netherlands, there are a lot of people with different backgrounds and nationalities. At the moment when a Dutch MP, because I am still a Dutch MP, stands up for the interests of those people and expresses their emotions, Mr Van der Staaij cannot say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u217	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u218	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for all the first-term questions and comments. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and I myself will try, also in the light of these questions and comments, to explain as best as possible the position of the cabinet and to identify what actions society can expect from the cabinet. Lodewijk Asscher will consider, among other things, the problem of the lack of integration of a number of Turkish-Dutch young people. Minister Koenders will discuss the diplomatic relationship with Turkey. Allow me to make two preliminary remarks before I come to three questions. This debate on the aftermath of the coup attempt in Turkey is also a debate on what makes the Netherlands the Netherlands, on our standards laid down in the Constitution and on the shared values associated with it. It has been said by several speakers: we do not ask anyone to cut ties with the country of origin. It is also logical that the coup attempt in Turkey, with hundreds of deaths and F-16s who shot at the Turkish parliament, evokes emotions. But everyone who lives here must commit to the Netherlands, to our freedoms and to our rule of law. I would like to stress that fortunately many Turkish Dutch people do the same. This debate is to a large extent about the group that does not. It's not a choice model. Those living in the Netherlands are supposed to respect democratic values, the legal equality of all and the right to freedom of expression. That means, however uncomfortable it may be, that if you want to demonstrate, you can do so in this country. So if you use that fundamental right, you also respect our freedom of the press and the fact that children must be able to go to school safely at any time. It also means that there is simply no place for violence and intimidation in our country. In addition, the cabinet shares the concern, indignation and anger about the way in which the coup attempt in Turkey continues in our country. Let me say straight away: we should not fall into the trap of making extreme choices. On the one hand, you hear in society and partly in politics that the borders must now be closed. On the other hand, there are people who say that we also need to move along a little bit and show understanding. I am convinced that both extremes will only add to the problem. They are understandable emotions, but they must go hand in hand with common sense. The reality is, simply, that the situation surrounding the integration of Turkish people in the Netherlands, which we are now facing in all intensity, did not arise overnight. A history of thirty years or more precedes that. Nor is it the first time we have debated this in this Chamber. On the contrary: the current tensions in the Turkish community cannot therefore be removed at the push of a button. The cabinet therefore does not choose to blow up the refugee deal with Turkey or to break off all talks between Turkey and the EU. Quite apart from the question of whether we can do that at all, we would cut into our own meat. Nor does the government choose to close borders or abolish the freedom of education. Symbol politics takes us farther from home than closer to a solution. At the same time, we certainly should not be naive and we should just call things by their name. We do not allow our domestic policies to be influenced by outside interference. If security is at stake, then we have the police and the justice system, with all the power and resources at their disposal. So it is not either-or but, as very often in life, and-and-and-so: determined on the rule of law with a sensible approach. Our answer will show that we are playing chess on various boards: diplomacy, police and justice with all the power and power they have at their disposal, and education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u219	The Prime Minister says that some proposals only make it worse and symbolic. He was also talking about integration, which is an important point, but let me see how symbolic his words are. Last week, the Prime Minister talked about the "scumbag of the ledge." In another program he talked about "pleer op!'. In fact, I have only one question for the Prime Minister: when does the rigging of the ledge go to hell? How are you going to deliver those words?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u220	With regard to the situation in Zaanstad, I have used with conviction the term "carriage of the ledge." I am pleased that the mayor and the police there are now using the instruments they have, as I say in addition to what Mr Zijlstra said in his contribution. To ban co-operation, to deny people access to parts of a municipality, to remove people from parts of a municipality, to maintain the police, to arrest people, to interrogate people, to punish people; that is crucial. After all, what is happening in Zaanstad is touching a fundamental sense of security. You need to know safely in your own neighborhood and in your own home. You need to be safe at the local grocery store. Kids should be able to go to school safely. Police officers should not be harassed and tarred in a way that takes the blood from under the nails. Hence the sharp condemnation I expressed at the press conference last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u221	I've known the Prime Minister for a while. Usually when he answers for a very long time, he doesn't know very well. That "scumbag of the ledge" was about Zaandam, but about someone else, who made a journalist impossible the work, he said: fuck off! Now I don't know if "pleasure!" It says in the dictionary, but it means: get out, get out, fuck off, scum of the ledge! So let me ask the Prime Minister again: how do you take care of that? How can we in the Netherlands know that you are not just using big words, but that you are doing it? You are not a member of the opposition; you are Prime Minister. You say fuck off! In other words, leave, go away! How are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u222	I have just outlined how I see the situation in Zaanstad and why I made myself so terribly angry about it last Friday. Not just me, by the way; the whole cabinet. We discussed this at length last Friday. There's also been contact with the mayor. There is a whole set of instruments available to the mayor and the police. I'm glad that's being deployed now. I am glad that action is now being taken against...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u223	Still no answer. You don't know, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u224	No, this is the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u225	You don't know, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u226	Mr. Wilders...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u227	Perhaps you could give me an opportunity to answer. I am pleased that this mayor is now using these instruments as well and that she is now using the possibilities she has. That may have taken a little too long. People have been there for about six weeks in very difficult circumstances, but what is fundamental to me is that action is now being taken, that this scum is being dealt with, that people are being arrested, that there is being prosecuted and that all the instruments available to the police under the rule of law are being deployed. That is exactly what I wanted to achieve. I am very glad that this is happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u228	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u229	The Prime Minister just doesn't know. He fooled the whole of the Netherlands. He didn't say, "Let these people use all the instruments." He said "the rigging of the ledge" and "pleasure!" Now that just turns out to be nothing. It appears to be simply empty words from the Prime Minister, who has been leading this country for years with VVD Ministers of Justice and who has achieved nothing. He said to the Netherlands "pleasure!" And "the scum of the ledge," but it was nothing. They were hollow words. He now comes up with difficult words like "instrumentarium." "Fuck off!" means out of the country. I made the proposal to take away Dutch nationality from a person of dual nationality who commits a crime and to expel that person from the country. This is the same as you do with terrorists, because it is already possible under current legislation. However, I do not get a start of a reaction. "Fuck off!" And "rigids of the ledge" are only hollow phrases. They mean: I, Mark Rutte, dear people of the Netherlands, do nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u230	The difference between me and Mr Wilders is that the cabinet has to run and make sure that this country is safe. Mr Wilders has every right to make very extreme proposals. He's been doing that for a couple of years. That's his full authority. It's my job to drive. Anyone who has seen the footage, for example at Pauw on Thursday night, and anyone who has read the documents in the newspaper, will agree with me that this is a piece of scum from the ledge. These are terrible cases where young people make life impossible for the people living in that neighbourhood. That is fundamental: people feel that the rule of law is no longer there for them. I am pleased that by now in Zaanstad all the means are being used to tackle these young people, that they are being arrested, that they are being fined, that they are being banned and that they are being banned from working together and that there is camera surveillance. These are exactly the means to be used by the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u231	You said fuck off! That's what you said. Liar!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u232	It's just a little too obvious that the Prime Minister is trying to play a smart game here. Our Prime Minister said something on television about which I also wondered what actions were involved. He said to Summer Guests about the people in Rotterdam: fuck off, fuck off. That's what I find in itself statements you don't have to make as Prime Minister, but he did them. But the question is not what the Prime Minister calls for, but what he does next. That wasn't about Zaanstad. He's doing that very cleverly now, because that was a different kind of statement. I want to know what the Dutch Prime Minister is doing with his own statement on Dutch television in which he says to a lot of people: fuck off, fuck off. What's next?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u233	Mr Buma felt that I should not say that, but I disagree with him. When you see the footage of a NOS cameraman who makes the work impossible, of a journalist who makes the work impossible, of a Turkish Dutchman who shouts in the camera "fuck off!', then the feeling, not only of me, but of 99.9% of the Netherlands, is "fuck you!', "Fall on!" Or, in better Rotterdams, "feels up!'. Then I said: as Prime Minister, I have to ensure that we never go shopping in the achievements of our rule of law. If you use the right to demonstrate, you must also realise that others exercise their right to report on it, namely the freedom of the press and freedom of expression. As a rule of law, we will maintain this unconditionally. If this happens, we'll act, prosecute people, track down et cetera. I make that combination with Zaanstad because this happened in the debate. I myself was the first to say: Zaanstad has in a sense nothing to do with the coup in Turkey, because the scum of the ledge is that strictly speaking it really did not go through the coup in Turkey to do these things. What you do see here, and what is similar in both situations, is that there is a fundamental sense of maintaining the rule of law, the police are there for all of us, are they acting and do they have political support? President. - I call the Group of the European I'm glad that's happening in Zaanstad now. Mr Buma asks how you deal with the 20%, 24% of the Turkish Dutch who are poorly integrated and still with two legs in Turkey. I said, both in that broadcast and here, I'm not going to fix it at the push of a button. Mr Buma does not solve this either at the press of a button. What it does start with is to standardize what we stand for as a society, namely that we do not accept that you shop in those achievements. That is a fundamental point. That's what I want to do here, and that's what I'm gonna keep going. If Mr Buma is trying to trick me into telling me what measure I am going to take to prevent that, I am the first to say that we are not correcting what has gone wrong in 30 years of integration policy, where we have been making fundamental changes to it over the last 4.5 years, at the push of a button. If Mr Buma wants to catch me on that, I am absolutely the first to admit it. You can't fix that at the push of a button.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u234	Then it has simply been an expression of powerlessness. The Prime Minister's showing that, too. He will say, "If they say, "Fuck off!', I'll call out "pleer!'. That's in the schoolyard, but that's not the prime minister on television. That's where the problem is. Then let me ask him the question. We have received a very long letter as a kind of policy response to such statements as "pleasure!'. What is the measure in the letter that the Prime Minister says makes the most difference and is most in line with his harsh statement on TV that he can say to the Netherlands: they were not empty statements, but we are also doing something? What measure in that letter is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u235	I shall go to the beginning of Mr Buma's question in his last interruption, which surprises me. I thought that the CDA is also a party based on standards and values, which says: we must stand for our rule of law; we as politicians speak out how important that is and what those values are. You should not only talk about values and values, but also give substance to them. I would not expect us to fight about this at all, because I would expect Mr Buma to be on my side. I would also expect him to acknowledge with me that if we failed in 30 years of integration policy, we will not be able to do so at the push of a button. The first thing you have to look at when people exhibit transversal behavior that's in the letter, that's my reaction to Zaanstad and that's what the mayor and the police are doing there. This means that we protect our journalists from people who try to make them impossible to work. We need to protect people in Zaanstad from people who try to make life in that neighborhood something terrible. I am glad that this is happening now and that people can again trust that the rule of law is there for them. Frankly, I expected to have Mr Buma on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u236	The PM never gets me on his side when he calls me names and calls me back. He will get me on his side if he answers the simple question that is right about what the Prime Minister is here for: what measure in the long letter he sent to the Chamber and in which he lists all kinds of things makes a difference to him? What measure does the Prime Minister say that we are going to do that and I am not just calling for something, but am I also doing something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u237	I am very sorry to say that Mr Buma, as a representative of a large People's Party, who has had responsibility for the administration of the country with the VVD, the Labour Party and other parties over the past 30, 40 or 50 years, is now talking about a problem that he will also analyse that you do not solve at the press of a button or with one rule in a single letter. This problem was caused by the mistakes made in integration policy, which means that 24% of Turkish Dutch people no longer feel connected to our society. I would expect him to say that we really need to talk to each other about how we can do that, and that will have to be done step by step. However, it begins with the fact that, on the basis of this failed integration policy, people feel justified and free to violate the rule of law and to do things that are contrary to the law, they will encounter the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judges. That is exactly what is happening in Zaanstad. That's where the street is taken back on the thugs, and that's crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u238	Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u239	One more time, because the question is not answered and it is very simple. The Prime Minister sent a letter to the Chamber saying that the cabinet is doing a lot. What action, according to the Prime Minister, makes a difference and does he therefore wish to bring to our attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u240	I have already answered three times that a 30-year problem cannot be solved with one measure in one letter. That is the analysis that I believe we should carry out with each other and for which we are all responsible. However, it starts with measures relating to the maintenance of the rule of law and ensuring that the police and the judiciary act where they have to. That's what the letter is full of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u241	This simply indicates the powerlessness of the Prime Minister. He likes to shout in the media something he knows is doing well at this time. That sounds nice in the pub, but it doesn't matter if it doesn't really follow policy. The same was true tonight for the Prime Minister's introduction: he says something again, but does not act accordingly. Let me take an example: the Prime Minister says that we must not accept that Turkey's long arm is gaining control of our society here. It's nice to hear him say that, but it just happens. It's been happening a long time, it's still happening, it's happening today and it's happening tomorrow, because there's still talking to these groups. There are still groups that stand with their backs to society and with which the minister is simply talking. The Chamber has twice adopted a motion to clarify the financing of mosques, but these motions have not been carried out. The Prime Minister may say nice terms on television, but if it does not follow up on its content, it will not do us any good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u242	I am thinking of the image from Rotterdam, where a NOS journalist used the freedom of the press to report on a demonstration by Turkish Dutch. That man was made impossible to work while a guy in the camera screams "fuck off." My thesis is that 99% of the Dutch think at that moment: fuck off, fuck off, fuck off! That's what I said there. Then I said that I, as Prime Minister, have to standardize here. I said in that broadcast and I repeat this evening that the norm I lay down here is that you cannot shop in our achievements. If the debate game is then "had Rutte been allowed to say so?', I thought I could say that. I'm keeping those words up. It will be a matter of taste, but I think I could say that and I am sure 99% of the Netherlands agree. Mr Roemer, Mr Buma and all the others who say that we as politicians should then propose solutions are absolutely right. If the idea is that you can solve 30 years of integration problems with one letter and with one measure, that is not a good idea. It does, however, start with it, and that is what is happening in Zaanstad now, fortunately, that we are using all the means of the rule of law against people who do not feel connected with our society and who do not behave in a way that transcends standards. That's what it starts with. Then much more will have to be done in terms of further questions on integration, but it starts with people knowing that we are choosing the people who are good against the people who are trying to make a mess of it. I would also expect Mr Roemer, the foreman of the Socialist Party, to be on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u243	That we are on that side, that we do not accept people going over the line, is an open door. So stop playing that game, 'cause there's no one to make up for that. The Prime Minister says that the integration policy of the last 30 years has completely failed. He should have realized that the VVD had been in the cabinet for more than twenty years. In fact, the VVD has had the responsibility for many years. Even more so: in recent years, the VVD has been at the forefront of cutting resources for integration. So it's all nice talk again, a big mouth here and a big mouth there. But actions, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I come back to my question: how can you say in the Chamber that you do not accept that Turkey has a direct influence on our society if you are still at the table with those groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u244	Now we're narrowing it down again. This is a very fundamental point. Mr Roemer is trying to catch me on the fact that the VVD was there. That's true. Of course, I think the VVD has been in the government more than any other party in all these years. The VVD is therefore as well as other parties partly guilty of the things that have gone wrong in the field of integration. I don't blame just one party. I have just said that in those years Mr Buma's party, Mr Samsom's party and my party were in the government. Geert Wilders was part of the VVD all these years and has thus helped shape that policy. Yes, I'm just saying this to get Mr. Wilders out of his iPhone. It's all our fault. In those years, we have all helped to shape this policy. That's a fact. I am happy that Mr Roemer says: Rutte calls 'pleur'! And now he has to come up with one measure to solve that problem tomorrow. At least that is what Mr Buma said, and perhaps others are going to make that point. It's okay with me. I'm gonna say one more time, you're not gonna solve that with one measure. It does begin with the fact that, as a politically clear statement, we are quite clear where the border lies. I've heard a lot of people do that tonight. The limit is that you cannot shop in our Constitution and in our values and standards. They're unconditional, non-negotiable. That means that if you are allowed to demonstrate in Rotterdam, you also accept that a NOS journalist makes a report of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u245	Whatever words the Prime Minister uses, he has to know for himself. I don't give a shit. That wasn't my point at all. The point is that the Prime Minister will only come and tell us something if it is repressive. But he does not take measures that actually prevent people from standing with their backs to our society. Measures that help people meet in society, that children are in class together and that people live together in the neighborhood, he puts away here tonight in one subtitle with "extreme." However, these are measures that promote integration. Every time the Prime Minister tries to dive with a word here or a game there, but the actual integration in the Netherlands is only possible if you actually stop that long arm from Turkey and don't talk to those groups and make sure that children are in class together, that people in the neighborhood meet and that we make our society a society. This Prime Minister has not yet begun to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u246	Mr Roemer mentions many elements. There is a lot of policy behind that that I may not agree with, but what he says he wants to achieve, of course, I support. For example, there is a policy of ending special education. I do not agree with that, and I do not think that we will agree on this right away. In itself, Mr Roemer mentions some of the objectives that I share. Can I put one next to it? Lodewijk Asscher is not only Minister for Integration. He is mostly Minister of Employment. It's best to integrate when jobs are added. Fortunately, a quarter of a million jobs have been created. The fastest way to integrate is to get started. Let me take that step aside. Mr Roemers is now shaking no, but I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u247	I really object to this. The Prime Minister talks about employment, while he is the prime minister who doubles unemployment: from 310,000 when he started as Prime Minister to 600,000 last year. And then he's gonna walk around and say there's gonna be jobs! Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u248	This is how, I fear, we do not come to an agreement. I was just trying to say that Mr Roemer and I may not agree on policy, but that we agree on the objectives he has mentioned. I am also saying that it is not: instead of what he says, however important it is that we now manage to get another quarter of a million jobs in a relatively short period of time. That's good news, because that's always the fastest way to integrate. That is why I mentioned the Ministry of Social Affairs, which deals with integration policy. But that's besides all the other things that have to happen. I agree, but it starts with the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u249	Prime Minister Rutte talks about standards and wrong symbolism. And then he says "pleasure" in a TV broadcast for which you can pick out the items weeks in advance. So you know what's coming and then you react like this. Did it feel good to "pleasure" a moment in the debate? And to tell you here that 99% of the Dutch agree? Yes, they are when we ask today: do you still want to pay taxes? "99% agree, fuck off!" Then you've set the tone of the debate again. Then you write in a letter: "It requires a sustainable, multi-annual commitment to strengthen the commitment to Dutch society. The emphasis should be on a good, shared future in the Netherlands, not on what divides groups." The Prime Minister uses delicious anointing language, but in the meantime he calls out on Sunday nights nice and smooth. Will it take another four years for you to apologize?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u250	I can answer the question put by Mr Pechtold at the beginning of his rather lengthy interruption with no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u251	After five years, you're allowed to take on the role of Prime Minister a little bit, aren't you? You don't have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u252	Six years!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u253	Six years, look at this! I'd almost say, apparently, stay put for once. "Fuck off" and "fuck off" are words we wouldn't accept here. They are words that the Prime Minister, who is rightly proud to teach, does not accept in class. He says 99% agree. Well, for my mom and his mom, those aren't words they raised us with. The worst of it is that this tough Prime Minister is now responsible for the biggest possible mess in the Ministry of Justice; if the policemen still have to get support from something, then of that. But with "pleer op" he has opened the campaign again and set the tone of the debate. I think that a Prime Minister should also be able to say: I said it there, but if I look back on it now, it is not the words I want to hear on TV in a classroom, in a parliament, and also on Sunday nights, especially on Sunday nights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u254	Mr Pechtold now comes up with so many reasons and considerations, which say much more about how he is in politics than about how I am in politics. So I'm really gonna leave that one on his plate. I think it is our job as politicians to make laws, rules and policies, of course, but also to standardise. Many people in the Netherlands found it very uncomfortable that Rotterdam was demonstrated with red flags from the Turkish AK party. I think everyone here feels that way. That was very uncomfortable, but these people took advantage of their freedom of demonstration. They were allowed to do that. Then a NOS journalist reports on this. You see how the man feels uncomfortable and then you see him disappear from the picture. There's no way to see exactly what's happening, but the work is making it impossible for him to work. We only hope that violence is limited or that there may be no violence, but at least the work will make it impossible for him to work. And then a Turkish Dutchman in the camera says to the Netherlands: get lost! Then my point is, not because I think I'm gonna say that on Sunday night on TV, but because I think it is: fuck off myself. I repeat, that is 99% of the Netherlands. Next comes the question: what are you going to do? The answer to that is to say here with each other as a Chamber again normalizing to the rest of society, and certainly to this group, you cannot shop in our achievements. I can't. It's all or nothing, and if it's not everything, it's nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u255	See, that's what characterizes the conservative liberal, who puts away an entire group because one person calls it in the camera. He chooses an image very viciously and very vilely himself. From that whole group of people with these flags that make me uncomfortable, but which the Prime Minister himself says is covered by the right of free speech, he grabs one wheeldriver and thus puts away the whole of the Turkish Netherlands, including those who may have doubts and feel quite damaged by what is happening. That is indeed normalization, and that norming starts with a prime minister. It doesn't just start with the wheeldrivers. It doesn't just start in the classroom. It starts not only in the parliamentary debate, in which we speak through the President. A prime minister has the opportunity to address so many people and give an example. A prime minister does not say "pleasure" and is not proud of it. No, a Prime Minister, even though he thought it was a good start to the campaign, says: when I speak of standards, this language was not wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u256	Mr. Pechtold as a decency... Well, the left-wing liberals are heading in a very special direction now, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u257	Look, ah! Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u258	But Mr Pechtold, what I find so unfortunate...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u259	I've got him now, haven't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u260	No, not at all! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u261	Yeah, irritated, irritated! I can see it! Yeah, irritated!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u262	No, on the contrary, sincere! I find it funny because Mr Pechtold is a fine Hague gentleman. You can see that here. Well, so am I! Well, so am I, with a proper upbringing, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u263	Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u264	... I am truly convinced, and I think Mr Pechtold agrees with me, that we cannot rule only by law and by policy. We also need to set standards. In that broadcast I immediately said 'I am right here that the research of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows that 80% of people living in the Netherlands with a Turkish background are well integrated.' That's what I said right back there. I have said that this 20% is a serious problem that we do not solve with a magic wand. I say that again in the direction of Mr Buma, or with one rule in a letter. But it is important that we set that standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u265	Sure. And that's why there's the Hageneesje and here's the Rotterdammer, because he knows it's "pleurt op."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u266	I already corrected that in the press conference on Friday, because he is right, Mr President. I have made this serious linguistic error; that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u267	Beautiful things happen here. Decent, standards and values, Sunday rest and D66: I think it's a fantastic combination, very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u268	And that on Sunday night!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u269	Sunday night, exactly; it's already been remembered. I'm gonna go back to normal. The Prime Minister is right when he says he can't change a culture at the push of a button. He can't suddenly pump decency into society. However, this normalization starts with the Prime Minister. This starts, for example, in relation to Turkey. I come now to Mr Roemer, the long arm of Ankara. If Turkey sends a list by post, there is a responsibility for the Prime Minister in his relationship with Turkey. If on the plane to the Netherlands there is a letter with a list of alleged Gülenaanhangers and Gülen organisations with which the Netherlands does something, then it starts with the Prime Minister. What is his reaction when such a letter is given, when the board comes from Ankara: do what about these people? So what is the Prime Minister's response?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u270	I give a very general answer, because we have agreed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will take a closer look at this. Mr Segers will receive a comprehensive response, but let me answer this question in general terms. It is essential for me that Turkey should be allowed to find anything that happens in the Netherlands, as long as it does so through normal diplomatic channels. So when I made that statement on Sunday evening in Summer Guests, of course, comments came from Turkey. That's fine. We have seen this and I have responded to it by accepting it for notification. That's not a long arm; that's fine. We do the same in the opposite way in diplomatic matters. What Bert Koenders and I are always very keen on is when that crosses a line. We also have very regular contact about this, to measure that very precisely. Mr Segers wants to go into the Gülen list completely, but Mr Koenders will be discussing the precise data and the exact facts in a moment, so I would ask Mr Segers to allow him to do so. But for me, Bert Koenders, Lodewijk Asscher and the entire cabinet, it is essential that we deal with matters in the Netherlands and Turkey about matters in Turkey. We should not have long toes if there are any comments in the diplomatic movement. We are making them in other ways too; that is quite normal. The border is when people are influenced involuntarily in their behaviour through organisations in society or in other ways. That's where the border is. But once again, Mr Koenders will go into this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u271	Mr Buma asked the Prime Minister: just mention one concrete measure taken by the cabinet to standardise and bring about developments in our society. The Prime Minister didn't come up with an answer. Mr Roemer asked what the cabinet is doing to Ankara's long arm. This is a very concrete case in which standards can begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u272	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u273	What's the reaction to Erdogan? The Prime Minister spoke to Mr Erdogan. A letter has been sent asking: do something about these people and these organizations. Then what was his reaction? Then it starts to normalize, doesn't it? You have to draw a line, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u274	I know that Mr Segers has drawn attention to this in the media over the last few days, but with that list it is really more nuanced. Mr Koenders will go into the exact facts and the whole timeline without suspension. We always make the joke that, at the height of the debate, Mr Pechtold always asks for a suspension, a factual story and a timeline. We're in favour of that. We have the facts and the timeline with us, and Mr Koenders will deal with this in a moment. If I'm gonna take over now, I'm gonna have to read his notes, and I think it's better if he does that himself. However, we fully agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u275	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u276	This is really the last chance: what changed in the relationship between Turkey and the Netherlands after the coup? We have seen that the rule of law has been violated. We've seen what happened to 100,000 people and what happened to the 30,000 people who ended up in prison. There is talk of standards, of upholding our standards and values and of upholding our own rule of law. What has changed the cabinet in the relationship between the Netherlands and Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u277	We've been working a three-stroke. That's what the letter says. First of all, we condemned the coup. I have just said that more than 200 people have died, that F-16s have bombed the parliament and that a democratic government has threatened to be overthrown. One: conviction. Two. We have said to the Turks: we understand that it is fierce, that you must pursue this and that you must seek those who are behind this, but you do so within the limits of the rule of law. It is very important for the Council of Europe to look at this now, with the agreement of the Turks. Bert Koenders played an important role in this. It is good that the Council of Europe does so. It is less sensitive than the European Union. Three. There are 460,000 people living in the Netherlands with a Turkish background, or even more. They sometimes belong to the third or fourth generation, but at least have Turkish grandparents. All in all, it's about half a million people. We understand that it also sounds very intense in that community. We understand that people have views about this and discuss it with each other and so on. However, we do not accept the import of these tensions to the Netherlands. We will see to that. It is fine if the Turks have views about what the Dutch government is doing, because that is normal diplomatic traffic. But if they lead to people being involuntaryly affected in the capillaries of Dutch society, a border will be crossed as far as we are concerned. But again, there are three of us here. I would have liked to do the debate on my own and then I would have answered all the questions. But this question will be answered by Bert Koenders in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u278	I would like to ask a question about the phrase "pleasure."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u279	Ah!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u280	I think it's actually quite fine that the Prime Minister is plainspoken and clearly indicates what he thinks of something. But when he says "pleasure," where do you think he'll go?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u281	That's what I said on the air. If that guy in the camera yells at us "fuck off," then my first feeling is "fuck off," and I don't think it's just me, but everybody else's "fuck off." I then immediately said that, as Prime Minister, I was naturally kept to normal. That's exactly what I said in that broadcast. That was the second sentence. The norm is that if they exercise their right to sample, the NIS may exercise its right to report on it. That can't be disturbed. You can't shop in our achievements. But every normal person will have that first emotional reaction. I have one too, and I am simply expressing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u282	I'm in favour of standards. I also said, perhaps not very diplomatically, that they are freaks. If you behaved like that, you could have called them scum for all I care. Our Prime Minister, however, deliberately chooses the words 'pleasure'. If they have to leave, the question is justified: where should they go? Why do I find it problematic? Not because he is so pronounced, but because he actually says to people that, even though they are born here, their Dutchness is conditional if they behave like scum, because they have two passports. Deep down, his gut says "pleasure, leave." I think that's the problem. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister that he feels the same and that this is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u283	It's the other way around. It's not parole. It's unconditional. These people are Dutch. So they have also just to behave like Dutch. They have to abide by the Dutch rule of law. They shouldn't shop in achievements. If a guy like that drunk, or whatever he was, is screaming "fuck off" in a camera from the NOS, then the whole of the Netherlands will think, "Fuck off." That's a normal reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u284	I always want to know what the whole of the Netherlands thinks. I am therefore always eagerly looking forward to the polls of Maurice de Hond on Sunday morning. But now it's about what the Prime Minister thinks. I don't care if 99% would find this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u285	The Prime Minister feels the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u286	I don't care if 99% agree with him. He chooses the words "pleasure" while there were all kinds of other qualifications possible to normalize and to indicate that this behavior is not accepted. By saying "pleasure," you actually say "you can go somewhere else." I find it striking that the Prime Minister chooses those words. Apparently, he hasn't given it much thought, because it's coming from his lower abdomen. That's all the worse for me, actually. To these guys who behave so badly, you have to say "you're a bag of hay," as we say in Brabant, and "you're part of our society, but you don't behave that way." With "pleasure on" you give a very different signal. That'll give you the wrong signal. That's how you push people away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u287	I'll do it next time someone screams in the camera and yells things like that and I feel what I've said in my heart, just do it again. Then I'll just put it out there. Then I will also say that, as Prime Minister, of course, I have been held to act 'prime ministerial' and standardising in this. I said what I said about it. You can't shop in our achievements. It's all or nothing. If it's not everything, it's nothing. It's not much more complicated than that. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u288	I actually want to ask something else, but that all or nothing is fascinating. It is not all or nothing with the Prime Minister, because it is both. He yells that they have to leave. That's nothing. But let them stay normal. However, my question concerns what Mr Segers has just said, namely the reaction of the cabinet to the approximately 100,000 redundancies and arrests. Can I assume that the cabinet condemns what Turkey is doing in its contacts with Turkey and beyond?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u289	I said in my phone conversation with Erdogan that I condemn the coup and that I assume that Turkey will abide by the general rules of law, human rights and democracy in the succession and aftermath of the coup. I said that's what we're assuming. I am very pleased that the Council of Europe is now going to look very closely at what is going on, so that we do not have to go on all kinds of media reports. I brought that up in my conversation with Erdogan. This was also raised by the Foreign Minister in his discussion with his colleague on Monday. We are perfectly clear about that. There can be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u290	Well, that's the question. My question is whether the cabinet condemns what Turkey is doing. For example, we cannot dismiss 3,000 judges at the moment you are in the process of entering into accession negotiations. I don't know what legal state this is, but this isn't legal state and it can't be. I asked Mr Kuzu this simple question earlier. Then we were all angry that he didn't answer. Does the Cabinet condemn what's going on in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u291	It is precisely for this reason that we allow the Council of Europe to look at it. We want to know exactly what is happening and how the Council of Europe is assessing it. We think it is important that we do not think about what exactly is going on here. We're seeing all these events. They cause concern and discomfort to many people: what about the rule of law in Turkey? That is why we have asked the Council of Europe to investigate this. That's what happened at the request of the CDA. I thought Mr Omtzigt made this suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u292	Yes, but it was not at the root of the cabinet's view towards Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u293	We take Mr Omtzigt's requests extremely seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u294	No, I'm not. 3,000 judges were fired there. The government needs this to consider whether this might be in accordance with the rule of law. It's not that. Meanwhile, the cabinet is in the process of negotiating with Turkey. My question is simply 'yes' or 'no' if the cabinet condemns the firing and arresting of some 100,000 people without knowing whether they are guilty of anything at all. That's not a weird question, is it? I want to know whether the cabinet condemns that or not. Yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u295	For that we sail on the compass of the CDA. At the request of the CDA, we will have the Council of Europe examine how serious it is and how it is assessed. So, unlike Mr Buma, we are not getting ahead of the music by saying that we are going to blow up the refugee deal, as suggested by Mr Buma and Mr Pechtold. Why not? It would be extremely unwise for the refugees to return to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u296	This debate is constantly about developments in Turkey as well as the impact in the Netherlands. It gets a little messy sometimes. It is about measures to be taken, but also about the language in which we express our indignation. I agree with the Prime Minister that the debate here is very good to do so in firm and round terms, but is he happy that the parliamentary debate is constantly being polluted with all kinds of swearing words?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u297	I didn't mean to. My intention was to make it clear what I think. It is then up to the Chamber to reflect on that with me. I didn't actively ask for that, but when that happens, I respond and explain why I said what I said and why I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u298	Maybe another constructive contribution. I have looked into parliamentary history, but "pleasure" has not been used before. There was a 'Mr Pleur' in the report, but it did not come back as a swear. In the middle of the twentieth century and even in the nineteenth century, "schorriemorrie" was introduced. Van Mierlo also used that word, so it is D66 proof. Maybe I can give the Prime Minister a hand-off with that term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u299	Thank you very much. If you go back into parliamentary history and read back the 19th-century Acts, you will see that it was very common at that time to add the most terrible things to each other here in the Chamber. It is only after the Second World War and with the Presidents of the Chamber who have taken office since then that language has become much more sophisticated and cautious. I have used it more often: up to and including Engwirda, who said to the Minister of Economic Affairs 'you lie', on which the President said: you can only say that the Minister's statements are at odds with the truth. So you see a huge journey through time. I did not make this statement in Summer Guests in order to discuss it in detail this evening, but as Prime Minister I am, of course, always prepared to explain what I said. In this case, I do so wholeheartedly, because I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u300	The Prime Minister keeps saying he's behind it. It does send a signal, and it's a symbol. We all know that the Prime Minister, when he made this statement, didn't mean that boy had to step on line 4 and go to North. The point is that he says to people with a different background than the Dutch primeval Dutch that they should go away to their own country. Would the Prime Minister use the same words as not someone with a Turkish, Moroccan or whatever background, but just a primal-Holland person? Would the Prime Minister have used the same words?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u301	In fact, I said in that broadcast that I am just as furious about the idiots who stood in the back halls in town halls yelling at the arrival of asylum seekers' centres and the arrival of emergency shelters. By the way, there weren't mostly Turkish Dutch shouting. In most cases they were white Dutch. I said in that broadcast that I'm getting just as angry about it and I find it just as reprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u302	The point is that you didn't tell them to piss off. The VVD states in this Chamber that we need to understand the concerns of those people, but when it comes to the concerns and emotions of these people, then it is moving along and selective shopping in the achievements of our rule of law. But, Prime Minister, do you realize that you are currently selective shopping in the achievements of our rule of law? You treat one group of people differently from the other group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u303	As far as selective shopping is concerned, tonight we all discovered our master: Mr Kuzu. My point was that the Turkish Dutch were screaming "fuck off" in the camera. I've responded to that. I mentioned, also in the broadcast, the example of people who disrupt municipal meetings in the back of the hall, throw fireworks at city halls and threaten aldermen. When last year's asylum influx increased enormously, we all experienced it. I'm just as angry and pissed off about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u304	All I see is that the Prime Minister gives the same answer and I have to ask the same question again. So I don't feel like it. I see that the Prime Minister speaks much firmer words about one group. Even Mr Van der Staaij is asking questions about this. The Prime Minister says he's just as furious about the other group. Speak it out! The Prime Minister, at the time it mattered, could have said to those other people that they should be pissing off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u305	That's a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u306	The debate has been about the words 'pleasure' all the time. I cannot help saying that the Prime Minister said so, because in the neighbourhoods in Rotterdam where I grew up and worked for 30 years, that is said a thousand times a day. It goes into one ear and out the other. So I can't stand the fact that the Prime Minister said that. I forgive him for that, too. There is really nothing to forgive, provided it is serious, provided it is not for the stage. I sometimes doubt that with this Prime Minister. I do not see any decisiveness when it comes to Turkey. During the weekly press conference I heard the Prime Minister say that he had no indication that the Turkish intervention was present in the Netherlands. Now that I have heard part of the debate and the Prime Minister's input, I ask him whether he still supports that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u307	We have to put it very precisely. The question was whether there were direct indications that Erdogan or the national government of Turkey directly interfered in matters in the Netherlands. There's no indication of that, which doesn't mean we're not naive. We're keeping an extremely close eye on where the border is. If Turkey voluntarily interferes with the diaspora, this leads to intimidation, discomfort and involuntary interference. We don't cross that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u308	There are very clear indications that Erdogan or Ankara's long arm, or whatever you want to call it, has been involved in what happened in the Netherlands. Think of the letter the Turkish consul wrote to Mayor Aboutaleb in Rotterdam. Think about the click line. Think of the Gülen list, the so-called terrorist list of the Turkish state press office. Those are very clear indications. And then I don't see the brave Prime Minister again. He does not dare to take any action on this. Does the Prime Minister dare, for example, to expel the Turkish consul? After all, the Turkish Consul is very closely involved in this. If the Prime Minister dares to point him out, he may say "pleasure" a thousand times a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u309	I just made all the distinction. In diplomatic traffic, it is not forbidden to tell each other firmly what you think of something. It is also okay if Turkish diplomats say that to a mayor, to the Foreign Minister or to me. I'm fine with it, because it's normal in diplomatic traffic. At times that can happen with a decent hurricane force, in fortissimo. I've also indicated the boundaries. We're guarding those boundaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u310	I would like to return to the questions raised by Mr Segers on the principles of the rule of law. After the coup, 100,000 people lost their jobs. 20,000 people have been arrested and imprisoned. Judges and journalists have been arrested. In Syria, Kurds are attacked by Turkey. Even so, the Prime Minister cannot answer the simple question as to whether this is contrary to the principles of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u311	I've given the answer three times now. We are extremely concerned about this. Even after the discussion with the Chamber, we decided not to do it through the European Union, but through the Council of Europe. It's getting to the bottom of it. I can't make it prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u312	If you hear the Prime Minister now, you can't help but think there's a whole different thought behind this. Of course, the Prime Minister sees that what is happening there is not right. Journalists are arrested and imprisoned. Judges get fired at 3,000 at the same time, and that's what happens to teachers. Of course this Prime Minister knows that, but he doesn't say it because he's trying to make a dirty deal. He does not dare to enter into this discussion, and he is therefore in the grip of Turkey. Why doesn't he just admit that this is much more important than defending the rule of law here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u313	That is not true, but the opposite is not true either, namely what Mr Roemer, Mr Buma and Mr Pechtold think, to know that you have to cancel the deal. I'm not going to. It is not because of this deal that we are more cautious towards Turkey and walking on mouse feet. I know this is said here and there. I'll leave it for what it is, but it's simply not true. But the opposite is also not true, namely that you have to say now: well, then you have to stop. Where thousands of people first crossed the Aegean Sea, those numbers fell to between 50 and 100 per day. Last year we also had an unsustainable asylum crisis in the Netherlands and in this part of Europe. Those numbers are now manageable. I find it extremely irresponsible what CDA, D66 and the SP have suggested, namely to blow up the deal. I really don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u314	In one speech, you first deny it and then confirm it. You do not want to condemn the fact that Turkey is blowing up the rule of law, otherwise the deal with the refugees will be blown up. You just confirmed it while denying it a minute ago. So that's what's going on. At the moment when we suggest'stop talking about joining the European Union and suspend visa liberalisation', the premium says: no, we are not going to do that, because then we will blow up the refugee deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u315	I just said exactly the opposite. Mr Roemer's assumption is that we would be careful with Turkey because of the refugee deal, but that is not true. In the eyes of three large parties in this Chamber, the countermand of that is apparently that you have to cancel that deal. I don't agree, because why would you do that? We are simply critical of Turkey. We are also critical of how things are now being dealt with there. The question is: do you condemn it and have you already come to the conclusion that the rule of law has indeed been violated? That is what the Council of Europe is looking at and we shall be focusing on it. We do that because we want to do it carefully. We don't do that because of the refugee deal. That is Mr Roemer's assertion. I really do not understand why Mr Roemer is okay with the fact that people are about to die again in the Aegean Sea, that thousands of people are going to cross and that the situation in the Netherlands is getting out of hand again. I really don't understand why he, the CDA and D66 have that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u316	It is indescribable that 100,000 people lose their jobs without any right. Judges get locked up and fired. Teachers get fired. Across the border, war can be waged against Syrian Kurds. Then this Prime Minister laughs, he just looks away and says, "If the Council of Europe has not done an investigation, we will leave the matter in order and in the meantime we will continue to negotiate faster accession to the EU and we will simply negotiate visa liberalisation. 'Cause oh, boy, the fugitive deal's gonna go down." Shameful; and that's called democrat!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u317	The debate will gain tremendous strength if we also listen to the answer. I have just said that it is not; there is no link between the refugee deal and the way in which we approach Turkey, as Mr Roemer suggests. The fact that a number of parties in the Chamber, including the cabinet, are concerned about developments in Turkey is not a reason to cancel the deal. This has far-reaching consequences, for refugees and for Europe. I really don't understand why they want me to. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u318	We in our group have a name for the Prime Minister's approach: the Kuzu line. There is still a lot of research to be done before you can really make a statement on how things are going in Turkey. As politicians we have a short memory and it has been a while, but two hours ago we were all here to take Mr Kuzu's measure because he did not sufficiently distance himself from what is happening in Turkey. Because if 100,000 people are fired, you can't get away with the answer: well, if they ever get a fair trial. We are now asking the Prime Minister to do exactly the same thing. If 100,000 people are fired, if people are locked up without a fair trial, then I expect this Prime Minister to say: that's no good. What would he call that again? Oh, yeah, "normalize." Then I expect him to standardize, that he would say to Erdogan: "Fuck you with what you're doing here! You can't do this." But this Prime Minister doesn't. That's just the Kuzu line. Why can't this Prime Minister just say clearly that he thinks it's unacceptable what's happening there? Why can't he just report that to the Turkish authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u319	Things are really different. The cabinet is extremely critical of that second track, namely how Turkey deals with the consequences of the coup. We condemn that coup, but we are extremely critical of the way Turkey handles it. We also want to know to what extent the rule of law is or is not respected. We have talked about this in Europe and the Council of Europe is now investigating it. Apparently, Mr Klaver has the impression that the cabinet would not be critical of developments in Turkey after the coup. I'm glad to get that impression out of here. We are extremely critical of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u320	Nothing's gonna be taken away. This is about the same rhetoric as the rhetoric Mr Kuzu used. Yes, he also considers the rule of law to be very important, but as soon as we ask him whether he rejects it and withdraws from it... If the Prime Minister continues to do so, we will all have to apologize to Mr Kuzu as well! Then we have to say that he was actually right, that he is on the government line, that we have to wait and see what is going on. It is quite clear what is happening in Turkey at the moment! It is unacceptable for the rule of law to be violated. I think that the Prime Minister should be much firmer about this. When it comes to guys who are misbehaving here in the Netherlands, we have to be normal, but if a friendly head of state manages to undermine the rule of law, lock up people without a fair trial and dismissing civil servants, then it has to be investigated somewhere via the Omtzigtroute and the Council of Europe. Be clear! Be out of line for once! That's important, isn't it, being normal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u321	I have just done so in my answer, but I cannot add much to that. I believe that this is significant at variety with the debate that took place at the end of the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u322	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u323	Fine. I will stop now, but I note that Mr Kuzu has been cut to his ankles and rightly so because he did not take a stand, nor does this Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u324	I don't agree with that, but okay. I actually had three specific questions to answer. One of these questions was discussed in detail in the debate on the interruption: the situation in Zaanstad. There are two issues that I will deal with briefly, at least if I am to do so. The first is foreign mosques financing. That's been a concern for some time. It is also a subject in the public debate and in various neighbourhoods. Every mosque, as well as churches and other religious institutions, is free to attract funding, both from its own community and from foreign sources. The existence of such mosques often depends on external funding. In fact, that is how it is; let us be honest about that. As a cabinet, we think that funding is not the problem in itself. The problem arises when funding focuses on getting influence, where the behaviour that results from it does not fit within the Dutch democracy and the rule of law. We really need to conduct this debate in a nuanced manner. It is essential to distinguish between the approach to terrorist financing, financing of and by terrorist organisations such as ISIS and Al-Qaeda, and measures aimed at increasing transparency about foreign funding to religious organisations in the Netherlands. Facilitating terrorist financing is, of course, totally inadmissible. For this we have legislation and all the means we can use to do so. Therefore, funding by non-terrorist organisations is not prohibited. We would also enter into freedom of religion if we did ban it. That does not mean that there are, of course, concerns and that there is a problem; I understand Mr Buma's question on this point. If funding focuses on gaining influence where the behaviour does not fit into the Dutch democratic rule of law, it is extremely undesirable, but in such a case it listens much closer whether or not you can intervene as a government. We are currently working on a letter about another case, that of that rock in Rotterdam. As has already been promised, we will inform the Chamber further on this matter. I admit that we will include this broader aspect, which Mr Buma has rightly mentioned. On the one hand, you have the book support of terrorist financing. Of course it is forbidden and opposed. On the other hand, you have freedom of religion. In between, we are trying to prevent indirect or direct funding of things that are contrary to our democratic values. We shall return to that in the letter to the Chamber, but I wanted to say this here. Mr Buma has raised an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u325	I understand you were in the middle of a rounding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u326	The last point...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u327	I would suggest that you do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u328	Mr Buma asked questions about dual nationality. It is an extremely complex issue with regard to Turkey. We should be honest about that. Someone can be naturalized here as a Dutchman. Someone who is the grandchild of a grandpa and grandmother who were born here, gets Dutch citizenship at birth. The issue of Turkish nationality is complex, because it raises two difficult issues, namely compulsory service and inheritance law. A lot has been said about it in the past. If you look at Dutch legislation on dual nationalities, you can see that the Netherlands is currently stricter against multiple nationalities than, for example, the United States. There is more freedom there to allow double nationalities. The international trend is also that dual nationalities are increasingly an accepted phenomenon. By way of derogation, the Netherlands has more stringent legislation. If you can't pass your nationality, that applies to Moroccans, Argentines and others, then it's allowed. In the case of Turkey, the exception is that it is very complicated. I understand that Mr Buma says that we have to do something with that. The tricky thing is that it has to happen on the Turkish side. On the basis of previous contacts on this subject, too, previous Cabinets have looked at the issues of conscription and inheritance law................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the context of all that needs to be done, we do not think that it should be a priority now. Again, the chances of success are limited. I would like to say here that it does not remove the inconvenience that Mr Buma feels and that I feel. This concerns in particular those two complex factors of compulsory service and inheritance law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u329	Today De Telegraaf reported that the Dutch police are holding information meetings on what is then called PKK sympathizers. I have a few questions about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u330	Can I come back to that in second term? I put that question before the debate officially, but I have not yet had a chance to see what the answer to that question is. That does not alter the fact that it will help if I hear Mr Pechtold's question. Excuse me. That might be useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u331	That's how nice we were raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u332	Good Hague!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u333	I'm not The Hague at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u334	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u335	No, you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u336	Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u337	My mother!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u338	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u339	Thank you for sharing that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u340	Sorry, Mom!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u341	Courage!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u342	I'm from Rotterdam!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u343	Yes, you like it more electorally, but you're from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u344	I can't say he's lying, but he's not making any sense of the truth. Today, De Telegraaf reported that PKK sympathizers are a difficult definition for me, so the first question is when you are a sympathizer of something called "police" and that there are information meetings in the country for the police about how to deal with it. Why the police, why not the AIVD when it comes to security? How does the police handle that kind of information? The PKK is an organization that we keep a close eye on, but is that a task for the police? How are those data shielded? Why now? Is there any reason, now that the PKK is so under attack in this area, to zoom in on this specifically? These are my questions to which I would like an answer in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u345	I have noted them mentally and they are also written down in writing. I'll get back to you in second term, Mr. Chairman. Then my polite suggestion would be that you give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u346	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u347	Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u348	Thanks!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u349	You're welcome. Would you pass that on to Mr. Wilders, Mr. Chairman? He's already satisfied. I have had questions about the organisations that deal with Turkish-religious communities in particular. I've had questions about Diyanet's funding and influence. I also received questions about the "pleur op" statements. Since that subject is of course the best, I would like to save it for a while. Then the Foreign Minister, who is not present in the Chamber at the moment, will answer all the questions about accession in detail. He is now preparing to add "a little more context" to that. Ah, there he is. He'll hear it just in time. Mr Klaver supports my line with regard to these Turkish organisations. He's asking what we're supposed to expect. Of course, it's very simple. Organisations that deal with Dutch people in the Netherlands have an incredibly important responsibility to protect those Dutch people in their individual choices. And there's something going on. We now see that many Dutch people with a Turkish background suddenly look over their shoulder. They suddenly wonder if they can still trust their neighbours, such as the Balkans in the 1990s. They wonder: can I go to a store like this? Then how important is it not to make it clear that the Dutch rule of law is valid here? Organisations that also have strong ties with the government in Turkey must also make it clear: we are here in the Netherlands, so we adhere to the rules of the Dutch rule of law. That rule of law guarantees freedom of choice for all Dutch people. It is very broad and can only remain open if we defend that freedom of choice with each other. That's what I expect. So this is about leadership. It's about the opportunity to take a stand now. These are often organisations that rightly complain about discrimination. It is about the chance to make it clear that they are not going to discriminate themselves and say that one Turk is good and the other mistake. These organisations rightly often say: children deserve opportunities and education for our children needs to be improved. Thus, such organisations should not infect 600 children with "guilt by association" because "that school might be related to..." It is crucial that this happens now. That's why I said that. I'll speak to these organizations tomorrow. I would ask that an explicit statement be made. It seems to me to be a very simple question. If they do so, they send a message to all those who are hiding behind organizations and behind what is happening there, and who find a reason not to treat each other nicely here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u350	I have a question about those schools. The letter from the cabinet says that 600 children have been taken from school. For 40 children "a solution is still being sought." What does this mean for those 600 kids, but especially for those 40 kids? Where are they now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u351	This is extremely serious, because these children are required to learn. So they have to go to school. The municipalities, together with the schools, prepared themselves for this situation, on the initiative of Sander Dekker and before the holidays were over. This means that there must be coûte que coûte very quickly a school for each of those children. The compulsory education is not for parents, but is there to protect children from parents. It is therefore crucial that this happens quickly. It's up to the municipalities to do this. The letter was therefore co-written by Sander Dekker and Jet Bussemaker. The letter states that municipalities will enforce the Law on compulsory education if this does not happen soon enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u352	But in the meantime, it's happening. I am thinking: this is the Netherlands. What if my kids go to school? And suppose at that school there's a teacher with a political view I don't want. What if he's a member of the PvdA and I'm really upset about that? I'll get my kid out of school. If I did that, wouldn't I be getting the D.A. on my ass tomorrow and getting a fine? I'd be told this is skipping school and your kid's going back to school. Why doesn't that just happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u353	That generally doesn't happen immediately tomorrow. That's not how compulsory schooling works. But surely, this must lead to sanctions. Generally, you have to have an explanation why your child isn't at school. If that statement is not correct, there must be enforcement. In this case, that statement is indeed wrong, just as it is wrong to mention other arguments that are not a good reason to take a child out of school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u354	But in the meantime, it doesn't happen. Because we're talking about 40 kids who just stay home. That's not nothing. Those children do not go to school because their parents have a problem with the fact that there is a political position at that school that they do not want. That's no reason to accept that they love their kids from school. Will the Minister at least undertake to send a letter to the Chamber within a week in which he writes what happens to those 40 children? In fact, it's very simple: he has to write that they are going back to school or that their parents have been fined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u355	I fully agree with Mr Buma. I tried to make that clear: children belong in school. Parents' political ideas are no excuse not to be so. Yeah, there's freedom of choice, so parents get to do their kids at another school, but you have to take care of that first. So I very much agree. In this case, I will ask the Minister and Secretary of State for Education to respond in his direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u356	The Minister says: I no longer talk to clubs that do not express themselves explicitly about the rule of law. Is that a new policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u357	It should not be new, but there is reason to ask for that explicit expression. Basically, you assume that everyone in this country not only respects the Constitution and the rule of law, but also helps to defend it. But there is a context of 175 harassment reports, with a group pressure, which has already slumbered, experienced by some in this Chamber and which takes incredible forms, making people really afraid to express their opinion. I had a conversation with a group of Turkish-Dutch youngsters from all kinds of plumage in which such a boy said: I vote Erdogan, but I have friends who are now called Gülenist and I myself am called a traitor from Turkey. That torn feeling is thus stimulated from Turkey. Then it is crucial that the Dutch organisations who say they are in favour of the future in the Netherlands speak out. So it's not a new policy. It is not even a policy that we are defending the rule of law, but I think it is necessary, especially at a time of despair among many Dutch people with a Turkish background, to express themselves explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u358	I hope that organisations that do not commit themselves to the rule of law and the fundamental values of the rule of law are indeed not partners you grant and have very warm ties with. Maybe you should talk to it, but at least you're not gonna keep hot subsidy bands with it. Could the Minister of Integration keep us informed about the effects of this policy measure in two months' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u359	For the record, there is no subsidy relationship with these organisations. I don't think that's the idea. They are organisations that play a role in the life of Dutch people with a Turkish background. I talk to them to address their role, to transparency, to their role in promoting integration, but also to the problems experienced by Dutch people with a Turkish background, such as discrimination and higher youth unemployment. Those are interlocutors for that reason. That is always claused, always from the same message, but they are interlocutors. Of course, I will keep the Chamber informed. Tomorrow I invited a large number of these organisations, including Kurdish organisations, organisations that are not working on the religious spectrum, to talk about the problem that is being raised here today. There is tension between Dutch people, who are not muffled but just picked up. I expect to get clarity much faster. I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u360	The Chamber calls for concrete measures to be taken in the event of increasing tension here, in the event of serious concerns about our relationship with Turkey. Then it can't stay vague. Then it has to be very concrete: what happens in relation to organisations? What change is taking place? We had a standard, namely respect for the rule of law, which we wish to uphold and reiterate. So we would very much like to see a letter soon in which the Minister states: this is the effect of the measures I took at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u361	I very much welcome this question from Mr Segers and the message he is sending. There was also a reaction from an organisation: yes, of course we adhere to the rule of law and so on. That's all true, but then you miss what's going on right now. You need to be explicit now. So it's not a measure that suddenly restores order to all agents in a neighborhood, but a measure that can help make Dutch people feel: yes, we are here in the Netherlands, so you can find what you find safe and free here, be friends with whom you want to be friends and go to a church or a mosque that you choose yourself. That's the point. I recognise very clearly the same objective with Mr Segers. So I will also inform him of the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u362	As I have said, I fully support the Minister's approach. In fact, as I say to myself, it would have been much better if we had done this much earlier. We should have broken the ties with organisations that do not make people feel at home in the Netherlands, but force them into a straitjacket that prevents them from making their own choices. But the question is what the alternative is. Because in the end, we have to stay in conversation, including with the community. For that, you need intermediaries and organisations. How does the Minister work to maintain contact with the community?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u363	This question by Mr Klaver summarizes exactly how I have dealt with it in recent years. I have previously been very critical of the attitude of these organisations towards the individual freedom of choice of Dutch people with a Turkish background. But I kept talking to them, just to appeal to them for their role and responsibility. It didn't stay completely in the quiet. There are people who have reported on this. So that discussion has become part of the public. This is exactly the dilemma Mr Klaver is setting out: yes, we are going to talk to anyone who can play a role, but that must be critical and sharp, because you have a responsibility. Finally, do we need intermediaries? I'm assuming a lot more of the individual. I see very strong Dutch people with a Turkish or other background who absolutely do not feel represented by any organization. They make their own choices and make up their own mind, but sometimes suffer from what is imposed by others, from what others expect from them, from the stickers that others stick on them. That is precisely why I think it is important to appeal to organisations that pretend to represent these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u364	My point is that those individuals are often not represented at the table. The minister sometimes invites individuals, but mostly they are clubs. In what way does the Ministry work to ensure that there are other representatives, who can also say something on behalf of individuals and on behalf of a community? Because I'm worried. I see a whole list of clubs that are being talked about now and which I think is an end-of-the-mill thing. How do you make sure that contact and that part of our civil society stays alive? I call on the Minister to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u365	I very much agree with Mr Klaver. On the contrary, I invite many young people, the new opinion-makers, who do not get caught in such a label, such a sticker. I don't invite all individuals, not even all individuals with Turkish backgrounds, because there are a lot of them. I don't think you should be cramped looking for new representatives either, but you should hear the popularity of the Dutch with a Turkish background. That's what I'm trying to do. If a vote is sometimes missed, I invite it. After all, I very much agree that the time that you had, through a law-based nationwide consultation, minorities covered everything and thus had a statutory consultation is fortunately behind us. People are developing. They are Dutch who want to take advantage of the freedom we share here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u366	That's right. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment has recently stated that organisations should express themselves explicitly in favour of the rule of law. The Minister rightly indicated that a number of organisations have already done so, but he is not from yesterday. He has been consulting with these organisations for years, since his time as alderman of Amsterdam. Isn't he asking for something from these organizations that he can make good decoration and a statement with during this period? The Prime Minister does so by means of the ruling "pleren op" and the Minister for Social Affairs chooses this way. Isn't that a proper analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u367	In reply to both Mr Klaver and Mr Segers, I have just explained why I think there is now reason to ask that question. Of course, everyone abides by the law; that's what you have to assume. But we are at a time when I hear from Dutch people with a Turkish background themselves that they are getting anxious, that they are getting anxious about what the repercussions may be for their family in Turkey, what the repercussions may be for their parents, and what the repercussions might be if they wanted to go on holiday there. At the moment when Dutch people are afraid of other Dutch people because of the events in Turkey, it is very important to enable organisations to say clearly and explicitly: we are here in the Netherlands, your future lies here in the Netherlands, where you have every freedom to make your own choices, choose your own friends and choose your own society or church. That doesn't include harassment. It must be clear that any form of intimidation, for example of those pupils and their parents, is totally undesirable and at odds with our rule of law. It seems to me that it is a logical opportunity for organisations to come forward now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u368	We have a Code of Criminal Law: intimidation and threats are not allowed. People must be called upon to do so and then prosecuted. However, this is what we are talking about here. This Minister has been in contact with these organizations for many years. He asks them to subscribe to the rule of law, when they have already done so. That's the point. Would the Minister find it crazy if at some point these organizations said that they no longer have confidence in it? I hear from the organizations that they just don't take these conversations seriously anymore. They say: they come by tomorrow, a box of homework is given and then homework assignments can be made again. What does the Minister think of that signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u369	I find that a very strange signal, because these organisations are not there for me or for Mr Kuzu; they have to deal with the future of the Dutch. It is a fact that at the moment there are Dutch people who are afraid of other Dutch because of what is happening in Turkey, because of that group pressure and because of that intimidation. We are talking about 175 declarations, Mr Kuzu. Then you don't come and say, "Well, then the police should look at it." Then it is eminent that you pronounce on this; that is what I ask of these organizations. Whether they have faith in me or in Mr Kuzu, I do not care. I am not so much concerned with Mr Kuzu in this debate; I am dealing with all those Dutch people who suddenly feel that they should look over their shoulder. They deserve our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u370	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u371	I think that every Dutchman should deserve the support of this minister or cabinet, but at the moment of structural insinuations, it is not the first time that this is happening. I understand that these organisations say: what are we supposed to do now? I understand that they say: we have already done everything we are asked to do; we have already spoken out for the rule of law and we have already said that we are against intimidation and threats. But because this minister has to make good grace with it, it is repeated. That fits perfectly into the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u372	I do not hear a question in this speech. It fits in with Mr Kuzu's speech in that it contains the consistency "" but it does not appeal to me at all, because I am indeed working on the importance of all the Dutch, including the Dutch with a Turkish background.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u373	I would like to come back to the discussions with these organisations. I'm the last one to say we can't talk; that's not what I'm talking about. The fact is that this minister has been talking to these organizations for years. Every day it becomes clear that these organizations are super-gegregated. They are directly linked to the Council of the Turks abroad. They are in direct contact with Turkey. They bring Turkish politics and rhetoric here. It's been the same for years. In fact, it hasn't gotten any less lately. I already asked in my term what it's paid for. I don't think it worked out at all. Doesn't the Minister give these organisations much too much status in this way? Shouldn't we be picking up the ball together and finally doing something against that segregation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u374	I listened very carefully to Mr Roemer. He says he thinks you should always talk to those organizations, but then he says that you shouldn't really talk to them anymore and that you should do something else. That's the dilemma that Jesse Klaver also sketches. I am indeed critical of organisations that hinder integration or that restrict the individual freedom of choice of Dutch people. At the same time, I see that many Dutch people are volunteering. They teach homework, for example. They make a contribution to society on weekends and they're not doing this kind of thing at all. In fact, they report to me because they feel very uncomfortable and because they do not agree that the same organisations are suddenly being used as a political instrument. That is why I am very critical and very sharp. As a result of what is going on, I would even ask these organisations to speak out and to make clear what is going on, but of course we cannot do that. That is the second part of Mr Roemer's question. Of course, if integration policy was nothing more than talking to four Turkish clubs, it was pointless. I am talking to everyone who has a responsibility and who can contribute to the freedom of all Dutch people. We've got to be sharp. And yes, we also need to fight segregation. Mr Roemer then says: you really have to mix children. That's how the SP wants to do it. I think the goal is noble, but I'm a little less confident that that's gonna work. I think it starts with quality schools, making it attractive for different parents to bring their children there again, but that measure is part of the goal we share: to combat segregation, to raise people together and to make people feel that we share a great deal in this country, including the values laid down in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u375	Maybe this is the heart of the problem. The Minister does not want to take measures to encourage people to meet in the neighbourhood and in schools. Measures remain behind that segregation actually maintains, that is what is happening. This is particularly true when the minister gives groups a status of a consultative body, groups which are in fact so heavily segregated that they stand in the way of the integration of many people. That's why I started that first sentence. I'm the last one to say you shouldn't talk to people, but don't give status to organizations that have been backing Dutch society for years. Together, we cannot achieve what we both want: an optimal integration in which everyone gets equal opportunities, everyone participates and everyone meets each other. That was my call. For this reason, the Minister should stop inviting these groups, which has been pointless for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u376	In one sentence and one question, that same contradiction comes back. Mr. Roemer says he's the last one to tell you not to talk, but then he's the first one to tell you not to talk. That's what he says in one question, and in between he says he thinks you should mix in schools. We don't agree on that. Even if we do not agree on this, it does not seem fair to me to pretend that the whole problem of the coup in Turkey and its consequences, not only in the Netherlands, but in more places in Western Europe, is due to the fact that we do not want to participate in Mr Roemer's mixed school buses. He doesn't mean that. I agree with him on the purpose. People need to grow up together and share what's so beautiful about this country. A lot of people do that, too. I'm not going along with the idea that it all failed. Many Turkish Dutch make a great contribution. We should be proud of that. Of course, that is independent of whether you are going to require mixed schools and the dilemma of whether or not you are talking to organisations. The latter is a dilemma; I agree with that. That is why I also ask these organisations to speak out against their supporters, to distance themselves from a policy of division as it is now being given, to opt for the Netherlands and for the rule of law and to convey that message to their supporters. That's how you contribute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u377	Finally, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u378	I find it quite remarkable that the Minister for Integration actually says: "Oh, promoting mixed neighbourhoods and mixed schools does not contribute to integration."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u379	No, we're all in favour of stimulating.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u380	No, you're not for that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u381	That's what I'm big for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u382	There is no measure in this direction. In fact, every proposal is dropped immediately. What the Minister is working on is to provide a platform for organisations that do not aim at integration at all, but aim at segregation. The Minister is really betting on the wrong horse and I do not think he will achieve much improvement in integration policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u383	I have the following problem now. I think Mr Roemer is a very nice man and I am always inclined to respond as kindly as possible................................................................................................................................................................................................. What's being said now is bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u384	I assume the Minister will explain what is wrong with encouraging mixed neighbourhoods and mixed schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u385	There's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u386	Talking to organisations that do not aim at integration at all does not help further integration in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u387	No matter what the purpose of an organisation is, organisations have to defend the Dutch rule of law and have to defend it. I don't have a platform for organizations with a constituency, but they have a platform. I appeal to them to use that in a positive way. I trust that Mr Roemer will support that. If you see what I have said, namely to carry out, just in the direction of the grassroots, whether you like it or not, that we have a rule of law here that means that you don't intimidate each other and that you don't threaten children because they're in the wrong school in your eyes, I expect Mr Roemer's support for that. Every time he comes up with the story that those schools were mixed if it had been up to the SP, but I don't believe it. I do believe in stimulation. I believe that this should be done at local level, as is happening in Amsterdam, for example. The SP can now contribute to this. I very much believe in that and have done so myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u388	Finally, Mr President. I know that tomorrow the Minister will receive socially desirable answers when it comes to the rule of law in those talks. Then nothing happens when it comes to combating segregation and promoting integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u389	That is good, because Mr Kuzu has just made another prediction. Indeed, it seems self-evident to me that organisations should express themselves explicitly. That seems to me to be important too, because there are people in the Netherlands who are hiding behind what is happening in Turkey. They think that the coup that took place there, with a miserable aftermath, gives them the right to deal with other Dutch people differently. That image needs to be broken. Anyone who can play a role in this is welcome. If these organisations are clear about this tomorrow, then that is not only socially desirable but also totally normal. That seems significant to me. You have just noticed from Mr Kuzu's interruption that that is not so obvious at all, because he said that you should not actually ask and that this is complicated. We'll know tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u390	I would like to comment on segregation, because the Minister says that it is not that bad and that integration is indeed going well. I am talking about the integration of Lower Turken into the Netherlands. 70% of them are supporters of Erdogan and that is accompanied by fanaticism. Then you would say that integration has completely failed and that segregation is taking place in a rather heavy way. What's this minister gonna do now? I hear a lot of words and woolly language: he sits down with them. That is all good, but my group would like to see tough measures. I refer, for example, to the Diyanet Mosques, which are financed from Turkey. Those are Turkish state mosques. Surely it is too crazy for words that Turkey can simply set up state mosques here in the Netherlands? Almost all mosques are covered. The imans are simply sent here from Turkey and can just preach here. Integration failed. These kinds of bodies are hindering integration. What is this Minister going to do in concrete terms? Because we know those woolly words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u391	I just indicated to Mr Roemer that we should not pretend that all Dutch people with a Turkish background have failed to integrate. You're doing a lot of people wrong. Mr Bontes knows that himself. That is not woolly either; he recognizes that from his time in Rotterdam. Right? It would be strange if we pretend that there is no integration among all those Dutch people. I can tell by his face that he agrees with me, even if he doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u392	Well, that's not exactly true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u393	We also see, particularly among some of the young people, that there is a problem in terms of integration and that they do not feel at home in Dutch society and focus much more on Turkey. That's a problem, because their future is here. That is what they need to focus on here. They must make a success of their lives here, but that is what the Prime Minister said about it: you don't solve that at the push of a button, even if you interfere with funding. The financing by Diyanet used to be good for the Netherlands. At that time, the separation between Church and State, as Mr Wilders outlined, was part of the way Turkey dealt with it. That has changed now; Turkey's policy has changed. So that presents us with new complex dilemmas. I agree with Mr Bontes, but of course it is not the case that all Dutch people with a Turkish background are involved, not even in such a demonstration. It's not like all the people who stood there belong to those who called a cameraman a shit. I'm glad you didn't! Yes, there are serious problems in terms of integration. This concerns in particular people who do not feel at home and who do not know who owns the Dutch rule of law. That has to change. This has to do with education, setting boundaries, education and being explicit about what we stand for and about the values we share here and guaranteeing freedom for all of us. That's not something you solve at the push of a button, even if you came to the financing of Diyanet mosques.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u394	Again: 70% of the Lower Turks are in a very fanatical way a fan of Diyanet. That's what we've been able to tell from those demonstrations. Something has to be done now. One of the measures that can be taken is to stop these money flows from Turkey via or through Diyanet, which creates all kinds of mosques and sends imams here. Stop it! Austria knows how to do that. The Austrian law states: no financing of such institutions from abroad. I would ask the Minister once again to take tough measures and to work out these measures and to implement them quickly. It's possible. I understand that things need to be changed, because integration has not gone well. The Minister may say that I agree with him, but if 70% of Erdogan's fanatics were involved, integration did not go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u395	I share that concern. I find it very difficult to imagine you voting for someone who deals with the rule of law like that, but it's okay. That's the complicated part. You can walk there with a Turkish flag. I now turn to the issue of funding. Yeah, there's a problem. That's what we've been talking about before. Austria makes a choice. From history, which Minister Koenders will outline so much more comprehensively, Austria has state religions, including Islam. As a result, funding is also available for this purpose. For example, this system includes a ban on the financing of salafistic mosques. That's interesting. We are dealing with the question of how to deal with an ideology which is partly religious but partly political, and which we are therefore concerned about. In the Dutch system, it is not so easy to say: they do, they do not. Yes, terrorist financing is forbidden. The Prime Minister already outlined it. Some forms of financing that are undesirable, we can try to stop. But financing from abroad in general is not so easy to ban. In fact, if you did, you wouldn't be here. But I think it's a legitimate debate. It's changed. You can see that Turkish diaspora politics has changed. You can see that the way we look at salafism has changed. It is also one of the subjects on which we, Koenders and I, will return in connection with the case in Rotterdam, as we promised. However, we are talking about a Salafist organization that is going to build a school there. That's the same dilemma. But please don't make the mistake that with another choice you don't have the problem of young people who don't feel at home in the Netherlands, who don't feel at home in Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u396	That dealing with the funding of those mosques is difficult, I believe. But the Minister is paid to come up with solutions for this. I haven't heard the beginning of a solution yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u397	Sure. That's what we're talking about. I realize that's what I'm paid for. With colleagues in the cabinet, namely the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I am busy dealing with the case in Rotterdam. We have also promised the Chamber to report on how we deal with it. In itself, we share that. It is not desirable for an organization to buy such a property with money from Qatar via Hamburg for unclear purposes. So we have the same goal. It is up to us to find the solution and then to answer to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u398	I'm also very interested in that problem. I think this is fiercely difficult. But now, let's get to the problem with the imams. I have reread the letter from the cabinet. We have encouraged for a while that there would be Dutch education. That must have been the fact that no one was interested in full-time education. There was a little more interest in half the training, but that was only one and a half men and a horse's head. Then we tried to give the imams sent by Diyanet an integration course. Then we ran into the association agreement with Turkey. In 2011, according to the Minister, the Central Appeals Board said: that cannot be done. Now the cabinet says: okay, we're going to explore the possibility of getting that integration in one way or another. My question, a very fundamental one, is: should we accept at all that a government organisation from Turkey, namely Diyanet, sends imams here who do not know our culture and language and should we accept it without demanding integration? We have the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal, but can we not say after what has happened in the last six months: we are now seeing that in a different light and we are going to try it? With those financial flows for buying a property, it's gonna be hard. I think it would be easier to say to an imam: listen, you were sent here by a government agency, but we don't accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u399	That's why we recorded that passage. I see two possible ways to change that point. I do believe, like many Dutch people with a Turkish background, that it is ridiculous that imams are sent here who do not speak a word of Dutch or understand what Dutch society is like. That's what integration is all about. There are two ways. The first road is the way Germany handles it. There, agreements have been made on German learning and getting to know German society. That's always complicated, because then you have to make appointments. The second way is to look at whether, through the decision on employment permits, you can still make demands on the acquisition of employment permits, but without ignoring what the Central Appeals Council has said in connection with the association agreement. You are not a citizen, but you do need an employment permit, as we demand for many workers from outside the European Union. I'd like to explore those two paths. I am aware of all the dilemmas involved, precisely because I agree with Mr Pechtold that the situation has changed, that the role of Diyanet has changed and that the Dutch have changed with a Turkish background. They simply want to be served in Dutch. They have a right to have someone who understands Dutch society. We must therefore try to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u400	At the moment, diplomatic traffic must be maintained; so will your colleague. We may be dimmed about suspending, for example, the negotiations on accession to the European Union, but I think this is a typical thing where you can say one-sidedly to Turkey. You know what, as long as you take this kind of action and as long as Diyanet has changed so much compared to the ruling in 2011, we're gonna stop with your imams, who don't speak a word of Dutch, who don't know what's going on here right now and who might even be oil on the fire instead of oil on the waves. If you make that a problem, we'll see it again, but we'll show you that right now we just don't want oil on the fire. We want oil on the waves, and if you don't cooperate in that, then not those imams of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u401	Of course, you cannot use legal instruments that are not intended for that purpose. Again, it's up to the judge. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het zou het een beetje "pleur op"-achtig zijn als we dat zouden doen.]] I do agree with Mr Pechtold that there is a clear change. We have great concerns. Whether by the route that Germany is going through, or by the legal route, we must therefore change this. This is in the interests of the future in the Netherlands of many Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u402	I see the Minister struggling on this point, making choices and exploring internationally, but time is running out. We're gonna have another election. Could we get a progress report on this for the budget of his ministry? It seems to me to be a typical thing that could be discussed around the budget. In this way, as a Chamber, we may also have more clarity with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u403	With all kinds of pleasure, I will inform the House of where we stand. I think that's very good. Then we can discuss that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u404	Mr Segers, before I give you the floor, I would like to know how much time the Minister thinks he needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u405	That's unlikely to be difficult to estimate, Mr. Chairman. I've already dealt with a number of things through the interruptions. I have another question about Zaandam and one about "pleasure on."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u406	I thought the latter had been sufficiently discussed, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u407	I have a question on the previous subject, and not yet on "pleasure." The arrival of imams from Turkey via Diyanet touches integration. It also sometimes affects radicalisation. We have seen that the sliding scale of salafism towards jihadism is extremely sensitive as regards the financial flows. Many motions have been tabled. The Chamber has often said that we really want to move on this point. Now the Minister says to Mr Pechtold that he is going to state his position and say where we are now. In his reply, the Minister sets out exactly the vulnerability of freedom, namely that we want to defend freedom and keep freedom open, but that freedom is vulnerable at the same time. Is it very strange to use freedom as a general principle that freedom is reciprocal? That the country that wants to drop out of finance and exert influence here has to accept as much freedom as it comes here? This applies to Saudi Arabia, other Gulf States and Turkey. That would be a very good general rule, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u408	Certainly, it is extremely helpful to always take that as a starting point in thinking about freedom. That is how these freedoms work in our Constitution within the Netherlands. In reply to Mr Bontes' questions, I myself distinguished between the concerns about radicalisation, extremism and terrorism and the current discussion about Dutch people with a Turkish background and about Diyanet. We shouldn't throw those things together. It's really two different things. They have an interface in the question of what it means for your integration and your future in the Netherlands as money flows also bring influence from abroad. That's where they match. The cabinet has indicated that where there really is terrorism and extremism, there is legislation that is sufficient in itself. The burden of proof is sometimes complicated, but the legislation is satisfactory. Where it's about much harder to grasp things, it's more difficult what you can assume as a government. You then come as a government in the role of assessing what you do and what you do not think is desirable. However, I think there is every reason to look at this differently now than before, because you see that the influence of political Islam has changed, because you see that salafism plays a different role in some mosques and in some young people and because you see that Diyanet used to be a defender of the separation between Church and State and has now become much more part of Turkey's politics. So there's every reason to do things differently, and that always helps reciprocity in conversations with other countries, but then you're not there yet. There are some very nasty dilemmas behind it, with the question of whether Bert Koenders will soon have to decide which churches should or should not receive what resources. The Constitution states that the government should not interfere. That is a great good thing that we must also defend together; I am not saying this as an excuse towards Mr Bontes. That is why we really need to go further step by step. We have to go further, both in terms of Diyanet, integration and Dutch learning and in terms of financing of Salafism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u409	I have a short last question because we are going to talk about this more often, but we have been talking about it for a long time. It has been three years since I tabled a motion, along with the VVD Group. Motions have also been tabled by other groups. The Chamber is really asking for more assertiveness. I appreciate the caution with which religious freedom and freedom are discussed. At the same time, there is the encouragement from the Chamber to be more assertive towards Turkey, but also towards other countries. Because it comes down to freedom and you give it, but sometimes you defend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u410	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That's what the cabinet feels like as support in the back. Maybe we can talk about the case-Rotterdam with a little more examples of what we do with that support, but in itself I very much agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u411	There was one more point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u412	The SGP asked about the young people who misbehaved in Zaandam. What does that say about their loyalty to the Netherlands? When you look at that, you see people who are misbehaving. And the fact that one actor pretends to be for Erdogan and gets his status from it is not something we should be rewarding. In that sense, I very much agree with the Prime Minister. When people behave like thugs, one reaction fits with that: restoring authority, regardless of their origin or where their parents come from. I do not think that we should reward that kind of behaviour by bringing Turkey back in. A young man like that might do that, but of course that's a bunch of bullshit. There's no excuse to threaten a police officer or ridicule him or stand on a car. This really only fits in with the restoration of authority, by setting boundaries and then by asking the question: what went wrong with your upbringing if you behave like this for a Advantage Market where people do their shopping? That's how I look at it. I do not come to the question of whether people feel loyal to the Netherlands. If you're misbehaving, that's the problem. That needs to be addressed. Finally, it was said that the phrase "pleer op" has now been drilled out. I'm inclined to agree with that. Room's had enough, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u413	Yes, thank you. I see that Mr Klaver still has a question on that last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u414	I know everyone's enjoying it. I'd like to know the answer. I think I asked a very simple question. The Prime Minister said "pleasure." Can this Minister of Social Affairs agree with those words? Did the Prime Minister say the same on behalf of this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u415	The Prime Minister sat in a television programme on Sunday evening and showed the whole people behind the Prime Minister by means of fragments. The people who needed it could look at it for three hours. That happened on the basis of fragments he chose himself. Taste differences. I am sure that not 99% of the Dutch have looked at it. He used those words then, but I'd put it differently. I'd say shame on you! That's what I'd say. Not "pleasure," but "shame!'. Shame on your Dutchman, that while you stand here demonstrating you have no respect for the freedom of others. Shame on you! What would your mother think? What would your father think about you doing this? Shame on you! You weren't raised? Is there no respect? After all, there is often a demand for respect. I'd think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u416	Those are words in which I fully agree. Why wouldn't this minister choose "pleasure"? Can he support the words the Prime Minister used? I don't give a shit if he sat there like a man Mark Rutte or as a prime minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u417	"Don't take a bag off"!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u418	Puh, puh, puh! It's about the words he uses. Why wouldn't this minister use the words "pleasure"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u419	I choose my own words. I wouldn't say "Fuck hay," either. I understand that that is Brabants, but I think that the demonisation of dried grass should also stop. My message is serious. Shame on you! I think that's what's going on here. Besides the fact that if you're gonna behave like this, the cops have to come and get a slap on the wrist, you should be ashamed of doing something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u420	No, Mr. Klaver. No further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u421	You don't have to piss me off, but you should be ashamed of yourself in a corner. You have to face your mother and say, "I'm sorry, I wanted the freedom to demonstrate for myself, but I didn't understand why you should give it to someone else."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u422	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u423	Mr. Chairman. I believe that in the last period there has been no other foreign policy issue that is so interwoven with internal affairs. I would like to continue with the government's line and show what three points we are taking extremely active and standardising action on. That is actually the question put by the Chamber. I'll start the coup attempt myself. I will state what I myself did during the coup attempt and what we did in the framework of the European Union and the Council of Europe. Secondly, I will deal with our criticism of the aftermath of the coup. I will outline how we are trying to improve the situation, including for the people of Turkey. Thirdly, I will answer the questions concerning the diplomatic movement between the Netherlands and Turkey. First of all, as Foreign Minister, let me say that the impact of the coup attempt can hardly be overestimated. That coup hit the full width of Turkish society. How big and wide shared that impact is, I noticed in the conversations I had with NGOs and with the opposition during my visit to Ankara. It's important to say that. It wasn't just a visit to the government. I have spoken there with all the opposition parties, with non-governmental organisations and with human rights organisations. Let me say straight away that they were united in their criticism of the coup, but they also asked us to stay in dialogue with Turkey and find ways to help them, through the Council of Europe, through the European Union, through other organisations and bilaterally. We have made every effort to do so. I think that's important to say. It was not only a moment of trauma for the Turkish people, but at the same time it was a moment of association for the democratic institutions. It is logical in itself that this traumatic experience has its consequences in the Netherlands. We have just talked about the extent to which this is happening and about what that means for integration. So it's understandable in itself. The same applies to the solidarity that people feel with those who died in that coup attempt and with the large number of wounded. I myself have seen how the whole House in Ankara has been beaten. We should try to imagine a little bit what that means there. In the modern world, you can only strongly condemn this. That is what the Dutch Government has done. The same evening I was talking to the Turkish Foreign Minister within half an hour. Our ambassador in Ankara also saw the fights there. There's been a lot of violence there. It is important to reject that immediately. The Dutch Government has done the same. If you show solidarity and see the unity in the country that was the result of the coup attempt, you also have an obligation to be critical about the aftermath. Let me make it clear once again that there is a minister here who stands for human rights. We criticize the aftermath of the Prime Minister's speech, but then the normal question is: what are you doing with that? Am I gonna send the ambassador away? Am I not gonna talk to the Turks anymore? Am I not going to talk about EU accession anymore? Are we gonna punish them after they've had a coup? Or are we going to do what the opposition and human rights organisations there are asking us to do? They ask us to be active in traffic with Turkey. Turn on the Council of Europe. Activate the European Union. Support the human rights movements. See if there is anything you can do about the accession funds that are being set up from Europe. Mr Segers once tabled a motion on this subject. That is exactly what the Dutch Government has done. I invited the Turkish Foreign Minister immediately after the coup on Monday, precisely because there were concerns about the aftermath. We have been in direct contact with Mr Jagland, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. We are critical, but we also want to know what is happening there. So there is no misunderstanding about this, but then there is the question of what you want to achieve with Turkey. It is important that, with the agreement of the Turkish Government, we have managed to ensure that the Committee against Torture is there. That comes with a clear report and we can see what happens there. In addition, the Council of Europe supervises when there is a state of emergency. The Council is therefore currently working with the Turkish Government to examine the extent to which European law and the European Convention on Human Rights are being observed. We have ensured that the human rights ambassador goes to Turkey as soon as possible. I can mention a number of things that are important at this very moment, when we have these great concerns. Everyone understands that after the violence Turkey wants to lock up the coupants. Everyone also knows that the Netherlands and the way we look at human rights is that there is no guild by association. This is precisely what the Council of Europe and the European Union are looking at. That is why it is so important to point this out. To all the suggestions that are being made now to send the ambassador home, I say: he is working right now. He's gotta be at work right now. Do I have a guarantee that this will work out automatically? Of course not. There is no result obligation. Moreover, we have broad interests in this country. But let there be no misunderstanding that the fact that we have a visa deal, or at least we are working on it, that we are talking about refugees, that we are members of NATO, that we have had a debate here about the cooperation we want against ISIS, does not mean that we continue to swallow our criticism. The opposite is true. You have seen my press conference with the Turkish Foreign Minister. Of course you're talking about that. At such a time, it comes to contacts, with the opposition, with the government, with the Council of Europe and with the European Union. Do I have a guarantee? No. Are we obliged to make that effort? Yes. I think this is important because it calls for action and normative capacity. I can't think Turkey away. It is a geopolitically important country between Syria and Europe. It's not gonna help the refugees if we stop that deal all of a sudden. The human rights organisations in Turkey will not benefit if I send the ambassador home. That's important to say here for a while. It's about what you really want to do. Are you willing to stick your neck out? Do you realize that this is not easy? I am the first to admit that this is the case. I really want to make it clear here that it is both about the standardisation that a coup is not acceptable in 'wide Europe' and about the fact that we take the criticism of the aftermath very seriously. Not only are we ready with a list, but we are also looking at what we can do next. We also realise that there are broad interests in Turkey. We do not sacrifice them, nor do we sacrifice human rights for those broad interests. That is the direction taken by the Dutch Government from day one. That is why I went to Ankara, to deliver that double message and to talk to that organisation, I say to Mr Segers. I had to get this off my chest for a moment, because he asked for standards and action. So that's what happens. I believe that, in such a major development on European territory, this is also required for the Netherlands. Sometimes we're on our own with that, but don't forget that we need allies. I'll be right back on that list. It is worth remembering that there are not only discussions in the Netherlands about interference and the import of tensions. The same applies to Germany, Belgium, France, Denmark and Sweden. They also know a large Turkish diaspora. For this reason, we have acted with the Council of Europe and the European Union on what we do not like when it comes to exports of tensions. The Chamber has just discussed this with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u424	Before you proceed and I give the floor to Mr Segers and Mr Roemer, I would like to know how your speech has been built up so that I can steer a bit when interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u425	This was an introductory shooting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u426	Yeah, I had that impression, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u427	After the introductory shots, I'll answer the questions. I'll start with the list. That can be quite short. I have already said something about human rights, and I will be more specific about that. A question has been asked about visa liberalisation and I will also address the EU accession process and NATO. I can, with your permission, answer all of that briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u428	Okay. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u429	If an F-16 shoots away the roof of a parliament and a coup takes place, there is a sentence from the Dutch government every day after that coup. I understand that very well: a coup condemns you. But if, after 100,000 people have been sent away, we have 30,000 people imprisoned, mayors and judges have been sent away, people without trial are trapped, hiding behind the Council of Europe, then we ourselves will fall through our moral limits. Then a conviction is in order, isn't it? You can keep talking. You need to keep talking. You can maintain tires. Anything the Minister wants, he can continue to do, but then a condemnation of what is happening in Turkey is the least he can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u430	I have just said that the Dutch Government is strongly critical of what is happening in the aftermath of the coup. Otherwise, we do not need the Council of Europe. Then I do not have to go there to talk to human rights organisations. Then I say, with the Prime Minister: I do not pronounce this judgment. I would like to comment on this. In any case, it means that we are not only deeply concerned but also critical of the degree of proportionality of these measures. Once again, we think it is important not to have a final judgment on it. It is not true that we are not criticizing now and that this has no consequences. Of course it has consequences. There is a ministerial meeting for a reason. Mr Segers can say that there are some officials and ministers there, but the Turkish state has agreed to a number of things that are important to prevent torture. In that sense, I do not think we disagree. However, I do not want to add the consequence that Mr Segers wishes to attach to it. The consequence is not that we send the ambassador home. He needs to get to work. That's what ambassadors are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u431	Let's leave the ambassador where he is. We're just gonna keep talking. That's fine. We're also gonna talk about refugees. But there is a moral minimum in terms of human rights and respect for the rule of law, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u432	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u433	In view of what is happening in Turkey, can you not just say that you are criticizing it or that you are worried about it? Then you can't talk about it, can you? Then you can say: we condemn this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u434	I just said that I'm using the words I'm using because I think it's important that we have a neutral arbitrator who, on the basis of all the data, is going to look at the lawsuits and look into the prisons. I think it is important that we also make a judgment on this basis, and not just on the basis of what we read in the newspaper. There's a lot of megaphone diplomacy. I have made it clear that I am critical of it. I went to Ankara to bring that up. We do so very publicly, namely at press conferences at Council of Europe and the European Union meetings. So I don't see the problem. I don't think we have a difference of opinion about who's the most moral here. The crux of the question is: what are you doing about it and what is the most effective measure to ensure that we promote human rights and freedom of the press in a country that is traumatized after a coup? We have already criticized human rights and freedom of the press in Turkey. Let us seize this opportunity to move things forward. We no longer live in a world where we come only with lists, raise the bridges and no longer speak. That is not only not effective; the opposition does not want that either, and it is against our own interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u435	I didn't say we shouldn't talk anymore. We just need to keep talking. The point is that we are on the side of the victims who are now stuck without trial and that we are now making it clear to Turkey that we are on the side of human rights. I have one final specific question. Let us assume that the Council of Europe's investigation clearly shows that the rule of law has gone down there and that the moral lower limit has fallen. Will there be a conviction by the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u436	With all due respect, Mr Segers is acting like I'm not judging anything. I use my own words. I chose those words. That has nothing to do with diplomacy; it has to do with the way in which I read these messages, like Mr Segers. I want something to happen and there will be clarity. The Commissioner for Human Rights then goes there as well. He didn't say in advance: we're gonna do it like this. Mr Jagland has gone there. He's come back with comments. I support them. That's what I've said publicly. We will await the judgment, but that does not mean that the Dutch Government has no criticism. You've seen how we've come out. Perhaps we are one of the sharpest countries in Europe in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u437	I do not know if you have noticed after all these hours, Mr President, but this Minister has rightly condemned what happened after the coup in Turkey. I'm happy about that. For this reason, we heard that the Prime Minister did not explicitly do so, whereas Mr Segers, Mr Buma and I asked for it five or six times. The Prime Minister said: we do have concerns, but I am not going to go so far as to criticise, let alone condemn it, because there are still investigations in progress. So the cabinet doesn't speak with one mouth. However, I am pleased that this Minister is speaking now, because I agree that a conviction is in place and that he is expressing it. That is a factual observation, but now my question. The question is not whether or not you should talk in Turkey. What a large part of the Chamber has explicitly asked for is: stop the talks on early accession to the EU. Stop talking about visa liberalisation. It might have been a slip of the tongue, but you said there was already about a deal. That must be stopped, because that would be a very wrong signal to Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u438	I'll go into the first point first. I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister and you did. I heard very clearly that he said that he criticized the situation after the coup. Then you really should read the Acts; it really is the case. In particular, you do so, because both the Prime Minister and I have a certain amount of memory. So, please read that out. Secondly, visa liberalisation. What I would like to say about this is actually also true for accession, but I will be speaking about it separately, because several questions have been asked about it. We stick to our commitments and expect Turkey to do the same. 72 conditions are included in the visa liberalisation roadmap. It is up to Turkey to comply. If Turkey does not comply, visa liberalisation will not continue. One of the benchmarks is known. It has to do with the question of what Turkey is doing with terrorism legislation. To what extent can it possibly be abused, for example for the freedom of the press? They will have to be met. I would prefer this to be 'over the market' and important than the easy position you choose, namely: we no longer talk about visa liberalisation, the deal is off. We're not gonna do favors. We have just said that we are accelerating things. When it appears that those 72 conditions are not met, it is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u439	Hiding behind those 72 points is a wrong signal. In the aftermath of that terrible coup, the whole rule of law has been gibberished. 100,000 people lost their jobs. 3,000 people have been arrested. Judges and teachers are losing their jobs. Syrian Kurds are under attack. We should have said right away, just as Segers also said: a border has been crossed here. Not only do we reject this; it cannot be that, on the basis of a previous deal, we will continue to speed up accession and visa liberalisation. That is a totally wrong signal, and it confirms the image that Ankara actually screwed us into the suit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u440	Those are very strong words and they are completely incorrect. I have just told you that visa liberalisation is taking place on the basis of 72 conditions. As it is called in good Dutch: "The ball is in their corner." This has to do, among other things, with a number of aspects that you are very concerned about, namely the legislation on terrorism. I honestly do not see the problem at all. I think it sounds morally interesting, but I don't think it's very operational. It will not improve the situation for the people of Turkey. That's all we care about. This may also apply to a number of things I would like to say about the accession negotiations. Many MPs have asked for the formal termination of the accession negotiations with Turkey. I'm not in favour of that. I have a number of reasons for that. Firstly, there is a standstill at the moment. The opening of remaining chapters is already blocked. Secondly, it is precisely the Commission which, together with the Council of Europe, is making progress reports in a number of areas. We shall then see what the position of the Commission is at that time, and we shall respond to it. Everyone will recognise that the prospect of Turkey's accession has not come any closer, given what has happened there. We are not blind, of course, and I fully understand what the Chamber is saying here. However, I do not understand why we suddenly have to pull the plug. The burden of proof lies with Turkey. Do you know what the opposition says to me, including those who are in favour of human rights? Open chapters 23 and 24, then we are talking about those subjects for which you have such a big heart! It is up to Turkey to meet the conditions. The whole process is based on benchmarks. That provides certainty at every step. I am therefore not in the mood at the moment to break this down unilaterally from our side. However, there are two important elements. The first element I mentioned instantly normalizing as a result of the coup. That's the death penalty. One could even say that this factor could be a lever in the internal debate in Turkey. When the death penalty is introduced, this is a new measure which is so contrary to the European Union's acquis that it would be logical that we do not accept it. That could be a showstopper. It has become a normative core element in the discussion; a game changer, if you like. I also need to see if this is happening. I think and hope that this introduction will not take place. The second element is pre-accession support. We have also talked about this before. In previous years, the cabinet has already made efforts to concentrate pre-accession aid more on issues related to free press and human rights, the Segers motion. The government will make every effort to do this even more. So far, we've been on our own. I can imagine that we now have more support for such an approach. Hopefully it will really matter in Turkey. We will also initiate a discussion in the EU framework on the shortening or total suspension of pre-accession aid, should this result from current developments. I am also prepared to raise this in the European Union next week. A question has also been asked about the association agreement. This is an old treaty aimed at economic cooperation between the European Union and Turkey through the creation of a customs union. Therefore, the Treaty does not contain any specific instruments that we can invoke in case of concerns about the rule of law. That is why these accession negotiations are such an important lever. However, regular dialogues between the European Union and Turkey in the so-called Association Council take place on the basis of this Convention. A question has also been asked about NATO. There is no reason at the moment to doubt whether Turkey will continue to fulfil its all-encompassing obligations. The Secretary-General of NATO visited Ankara precisely for this reason, in view of the changed situation. In doing so, the Secretary-General reaffirmed that NATO continues to count on Turkey's continued contribution and that Turkey can continue to count on NATO's solidarity and support. I agree with that. The situation in Northern Syria is, of course, complex. It would take quite some time at the end of this evening to go into that very precisely. In any case, I think it is important that Turkey, too, has now agreed to the ceasefire in the framework of the consultations that have taken place in recent days. I think it is incredibly important that we seize every opportunity to sustain that ceasefire. A question has also been asked about diplomatic traffic. First of all, let me be standardising in this too, partly in the light of what has been said earlier. There can be no interference in Dutch society that splits and exports the conflict there. However, you can never prevent this from happening 100% because we are dealing with societies here and there. There are emotions both here and there. The Minister for Social Affairs has mentioned a number of possibilities and outlined what that means for the process here. What is diplomatic traffic and what do we think is wrong and what is wrong with it? Maybe the easiest thing to say about that is because you can't align all cases. Firstly, the diplomatic movement between the Turkish and the Dutch authorities is, of course, okay, so to speak. One can send us diplomatic notes; I will return to that one diplomatic note in a moment. We can also be briefed in the diplomatic corps. There is, of course, exchange of diplomatic notes. We have discussed this before when we discussed the important issue of Turkish cooperation in the field of terrorism. We have a common interest in this too. In that sense, we simply need to keep talking to Turkey. Another point concerns contacts between the Turkish authorities and the Turkish diaspora. As far as I am concerned, the essence is the word 'volunteership'. The Minister for Social Affairs has said something about it. I don't want to repeat that. There are also things that we find unacceptable. A border is crossed when the Turkish government resorts to acts with which it tries to put pressure on the Dutch government or individuals in the Netherlands. An example is the familiar clickline. It's unacceptable. We have also raised this directly with the Turks. Apologies were made and it stopped. I believe that these are the guidelines that we are operating along. A number of things are out of the question. We have therefore raised them, including during my visit to Ankara. They're not always happy about that, but that's a red line for us. I have said this in the European Union. With a number of countries having the same problem, we are going to discuss how we can jointly increase the impact on Turkey in order to ensure that the problems are not exported to the Netherlands. I come to the so-called Gülen list. I deliberately included this in that letter because I thought it was important to indicate to the Chamber what we consider acceptable and not acceptable. In this case, I have made it public that there has been such a diplomatic note, but it has never been published. The list brought out by that well-known state press agency is a very different one. The suggestion that it would be a single list that was sent to us and then made public and that the Dutch Government has done nothing to prevent it is incorrect. We have indeed received a diplomatic note. I thought it was important to inform the Chamber about that. That list contained names of organisations and companies in the Netherlands affiliated to Gülen, according to the Turkish authorities. That note has been sent to us for information and we have shared it with other ministries. There was no call to action in it. I've been asked what I've done with that. The answer is, nothing, really. The Dutch Government does not discuss diplomatic notes in which we should act on the basis of no evidence. We do not believe in the principle of "guilt by association." It's no problem that we're being sent anything. We have made it clear that we do not see the Gülen organisation as a terrorist organisation. We want people to go to prison who are responsible for that coup, but that does not happen in association. That's what I wanted to say about that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u441	Were you almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u442	Yeah, I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u443	First, the Minister says that there has been a diplomatic list and that he has shared it with other ministries. Then he says he didn't do anything with it, but that list was shared with other ministries. If he finds it reprehensible that there were companies on such a list but also schools, I want to know from the Minister what he has done. Has he informed those companies and schools that the Turkish government is blackmailing them, making them suspect, and even more so, calling on the Netherlands to intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u444	We have clearly distanced ourselves from any way of intervention in the Netherlands through a list. That is why it is not so important to inform those people. I didn't want to make that list public because it would brand those organizations. That's what you don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u445	That was August 12th. On August 22 there was a meeting for the corps diplomaticique. The schools were mentioned there once again. What happened to the information from the Turkish Government intended to intervene in schools and companies affiliated with Gülen in the Netherlands? Why can the Prime Minister say on 2 September that there has been no obvious, immediately demonstrable interference from the Turkish Government? That is what he says when a diplomatic note is sent on 12 August and the diplomatic corps in Ankara will be taught the lesson again on 22 August.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u446	That is why I have begun to say what is acceptable to us and what is not acceptable to us. The Turkish authorities can send us a diplomatic note because they think FETÖ is a terrorist organisation. They can inform us about this. The question then arises as to what the Dutch Government is doing with this. So we are not going to act and we are not going to make this public, precisely because we do not want to do so. So we didn't act in the sense that we didn't suddenly tackle all those clubs and so on. I think that's important. Furthermore, we have made it very clear to the Turkish Government that we are otherwise not of any benefit. I did so myself, and the Prime Minister did so during several telephone calls and other activities. It is therefore a good thing that we have not acted in a way that would not be in accordance with the Dutch rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u447	But why does the Dutch minister share this with his colleagues and with other ministries here in the Netherlands? If you don't want that list taken seriously, you're not gonna share it and coordinate it with other ministries here? Is there, for example, a link with the Ministry of Education and Science? I think this is an important point. The Minister himself just said that he shared this with other ministries in the Netherlands. I would therefore like to know now whether contact has been made with the Ministry of Education about the schools on that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u448	That list was shared with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. I believe he was also shared with the services. If the State Department gets anything, it's not gonna keep it to itself. That's why this happened. However, this has obviously been shared within a very limited circle within the government, precisely because I did not want it to be responded to. Of course, others are also concerned with taking exactly the same position. So we have taken the right position. I'd do it again just like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u449	Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u450	Well, Mr President, I don't know if this is the end, with your consent, of course. I think this is important. Why is this shared with SZW, so the Ministry of Social Affairs, Employment and Integration? The Minister excludes the fact that the Ministry of EZ shares the companies on the list? He excluded that OCW shared which schools are on the list?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u451	I have every respect for the question and I would like to answer it, but I think the essence is that the government and I, as Foreign Minister, are going to talk about who I am and who I am not sharing something with from the Turkish Government. The important thing is what we do with it. That's the point. I say this very clearly: we do nothing with it because we do not work on the basis of 'guilt by association'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u452	This is exactly the point. I fully agree with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u453	Well, then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u454	This is indeed a reprehensible list. Moreover, it is first tried through a diplomatic post. Then one more lesson is given to our diplomats in Ankara, telling them who Gülen is and why he is wrong. Now the Minister says in public here: but that list that was sent to us, I did share with other ministries. After a moment of pressure from me, it appears that the list has been shared with Social Affairs. Now I also want to know which other ministries have shared the list with. The Minister himself says it's a reprehensible list. Then he's not gonna share it with Social Services, is he? Why would that ministry want to know what's on that list? Why should other officials be informed of a list about which we ourselves say: that list should never have been drawn up at all? I want to know who got that list. OCW? EZ? The services?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u455	Mr Pechtold is now making a whole case out of a list. On behalf of the government, I am now making public the receipt of a diplomatic note. You don't usually do that. I have done so because I would like to point out that the Dutch Government is acting as Mr Pechtold means. Whether I share this with SZW or with the AIVD, frankly, it's my business. It is Mr Pechtold's business to ask what happens to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u456	Well, come on. Then the Minister shouldn't have written this in that letter. I understand, because the Prime Minister then says on 2 September that there is no evidence of direct or demonstrable interference from the Turkish Government. Well, I think, is that the case if the Turkish government sends us a list and our officials give us a lesson? Let me just focus on one question. This was shared with SZW and with the security services. Has the list been shared with other ministries? I am very interested in whether it has been shared with EZ in terms of companies, and whether it has been shared with OCW in terms of schools. Did that happen, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u457	The answer is no. In the information I have now, at least it's about these two. The most important thing, however, is that the Dutch Government as a whole, and I am speaking on behalf of all these ministers, Mr President, has no reason to think about this and have not done anything with this information, for the reason I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u458	I would like to know in writing from the Minister why he shared with another ministry a list which he finds reprehensible and which he says they should never have sent. I can still imagine sharing with the security services, but why does he share that with SZW? I would like an explanation from the Minister in black and white. He says, to the best of my knowledge. I would also like an answer in black-and-white to the question of whether this depraved list has been shared with other ministries. This is so sensitive. The Turks are trying to influence us through such a list. The Minister is right to say that we do not agree with that. Then that list should not be distributed here in the Netherlands either. You're gonna get that bullshit about lists and who's on them and who's not on them. I would like to know how confidential the Ministry has dealt with it and who has known it all. If that is not possible at the moment, as the Minister points out, I would very much like to say that before the end of the week on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u459	Again, I wrote that in this letter because I want to be as public as possible, given the debate that prevails in Dutch society. The second point is that I did not say that the Turkish Government should not send such a note in itself. Mr Pechtold said that in his first sentence. I would like to say on behalf of the Dutch Government that nothing has happened to that list for the reason that we do not operate in the sense of stigmatizing. We are not talking about a Gülen movement. We're not about guild by association. This is politically important here. Of course, it is not a problem; if Mr Pechtold has a request, I will give it to him. But I would like to highlight the political moment here: this is not something vague or something that we have secretly sent. No, I'm making it public here for the exact reason that I want to show that we didn't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u460	I also have a question about that list. So it was shared with our diplomats in Ankara on August 22nd. Then, for example, we are talking about Gülenschools. Then 600 children were removed from these schools in the aftermath, in the weeks after that. What is the relationship between the lists drawn up by Turkey and the parents' final decision to remove their children from those schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u461	I can only say that we have done nothing with this list, that we have not distributed it, that we do not think it right and that we are against stigmatisation. As to why people do exactly that, I don't have a stand-alone judgment right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u462	There is no sign that, for example, the consulate in Rotterdam or the embassy has in any way played a role in disseminating those lists and informing those parents about the nature of that school?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u463	Mr Segers asked me what we have done with this. The answer is: we have done nothing about it. That's the answer I can give him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u464	But my question was: do you have the impression that the Turkish consulate and the Turkish embassy have played a role in disseminating that list and informing parents about the nature of those schools? As we have seen, 600 children have been removed from these schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u465	There's a lot of discussion about that. I'm against stigmatisation. I'm against lists. The Dutch Government is opposed to this. I have no further information that would involve consulates. Otherwise, I would have acted against it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u466	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u467	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I even believe, with all due respect to the Chamber, that I have answered the last of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u468	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I see that there is a need for a second term. Let us suspend a few moments before we proceed with a second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u469	We'll continue with the second term. Speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds, including tabling motions. Mr Segers has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u470	Mr. Chairman. 100,000 people fired, 30,000 people in prison, judges removed from their posts, mayors fired. The rule of law has failed in Turkey by its hooves. In that light, I found it disconcerting that there was no condemnation in the debate with Mr Kuzu in the first term. However, I found it even more disappointing that there was no condemnation on the part of the cabinet of what happened in Turkey. Let us be clear that there can be no business as usual; there can be no question of continuing as if nothing has happened. Something has happened, and that is why we need to take steps. To that end, I shall table two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Austria has indicated that EU accession talks with Turkey should be suspended in view of the structural human rights violations during the aftermath of the failed military coup;]] [[calls on the government, with like-minded countries within the European Union, to make efforts to halt EU accession talks with Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission has already submitted a regulation to the Member States regulating visa liberalisation for Turkey;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the talks on visa liberalisation for Turkey due to the gross violation of fundamental fundamental rights, including fair justice and freedom of expression,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Roemer, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Klaver, Mr Pechtold and Mr Bontes.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32824-149]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Roemer and Mr Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32824-150]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u471	Mr. Chairman. It was a long debate, in which there was also some clarity. There is a lack of clarity about the composition of a number of political groups in this Chamber, one of whom clearly welcomes the coup and the other clearly defends Erdogan's subsequent intervention, including the purifications. Encouraging was the large unanimity in the rest of the Chamber and the cabinet in the form of sharp criticism, of course on the coup itself but also on the subsequent action of the Turkish Government. Also clear was the hard line drawn with regard to the interference of the Turkish government in the Dutch tensions in Turkish-Dutch society. I hope the cabinet can work with that. We have had a long debate on all the possibilities for this. Often there is a lot of talk about it when those possibilities are more limited than you really want. I can taste it in the Chamber. I can taste it in the Cabinet. These include financing, intervention and the legal possibilities. All these possibilities can and must be increased where necessary, until we can be one society in which everyone, of whatever origin, religion or colour, can live together in harmony. Finally, clarity on my part. I promised Mr Roemer that I would provide further information. The Group of the Party of Labour's contribution in July was aimed at opening new chapters. We weren't for that, and we're not for that right now. And as things stand, we will not be in favour of that in the near future either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u472	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Cabinet for their reply. Fortunately, the debate was not only about the Prime Minister's language, but also about many more things. I am pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs is responding to our shared desire: how to deal with imams? He's also going to see if that 2011 ruling didn't come out in a different light. We may come back to that in the budget debate. I would like to know from the same minister what happened in his ministry with that list that came from Foreign Affairs and how many people it was shared with. I am glad that the Foreign Minister is sending us another letter stating how it all went. Has it not occurred to the Cabinet to have some companies and schools informed, for example, by the secret service, which also knew that list, that they are on such a destructive list? If so, they could have acted accordingly. I am seriously asking that question in this second term. We have talked for a long time about whether you should condemn what happened and how to deal with it. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet is concerned about the large number of arrests, suspensions and dismissals following the foiled coup of 15 July 2016 and about the 30-day period during which detainees can be detained without access by family or lawyer and without the intervention of a judge;]] [[comments from the Turkish Government's behaviour following the coup attempt to condemn;]] [[calls on the Government to forward this conviction to the Turkish authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pechtold, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Roemer, Mr Klaver, Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32824-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u473	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. Given the time, I'll start reading straight away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Turkish imams broadcast by the Diyanet administration have contributed to the complete failure of Turkish integration in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas Turkey's State interference in the Netherlands must finally be stopped;]] [[calls on the government to stop allowing these Turkish imams and to end the Turkish financing of Diyanet mosques in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has invested a lot of taxpayers' money in the design of Islam and Imam education in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas this should not be a task of the public authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to the financing of Islam and Imam training in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-152]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u474	Mr. Chairman. "Tig of the ledge," "pleasure!'; We've heard strong words from the Prime Minister over the past week. I thought: great, he finally got it and those months in which I, years ago, was a mentor to Mark Rutte, I still got some results. But unfortunately, it turns out to be hollow phrases and empty words, because the Prime Minister does nothing at all. He speaks out a bit of policy, but the scum of the ledge just remains the boss on the streets of the Netherlands and they don't pick them up either. Municipal council members are threatened, police cars are jumped by people, today another TV team of PowNed was kicked with eggs, and the Prime Minister does nothing at all. Do you know what the result is? The result of these so-called strong acts by this cabinet is that nine people were arrested yesterday and eight out of nine have already been released this afternoon. Eight out of nine were released within a day. What's the signal? The signal is: go ahead in the Netherlands, scumbags of the Netherlands; do whatever you want, scumbags of the ledge! You don't piss off, but within a day, you're just gonna walk back out on the street. That's impossible, isn't it? Isn't it completely unacceptable that something like this should happen? The police must be the boss on the street. I find it unimaginable that a cabinet with the VVD at the helm after so many years has not achieved anything at all. I'm filing one motion. In that I ask the Cabinet to do the only thing that works anyway. I don't understand why the cabinet wouldn't do that. On behalf of my group, I have been advocating for years that people of dual nationality who commit a crime should be removed from Dutch nationality and expelled to the country of that other nationality, as we do to terrorists. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands must be liberated from street terrorists as we see them in Zaandam ruining society;]] [[calls on the Government, a double-national street thug convicted of a crime, to withdraw from the Netherlands and as soon as possible after the end of the sentence to the country of remaining nationality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u475	Mr. Chairman. Whether it was deceptive or rather enlightening, at least I was shocked by the debate, by the attitude of Mr Kuzu, but also by the attitude of the Prime Minister and the way in which they express themselves on what happened after the coup in Turkey. It was about lists and fortunately also about words, I say to Mr Pechtold. We've been talking about the "pleasure on!'. You could say, "Why do you care about a word like that?" But let us take a look at the way in which the Prime Minister has taken a stand in recent years. He did it in different ways. "Rutte is ashamed of Feyenoord fans." "Rutte speaks Spanish Prime Minister about PSV supporters and has expressed his horror." When threatening letters were sent to council members, he called them "fucking bizarre" and "disgusting." The rioters in the Schilderswijk he called "retardous gladiols." He was also talking about "drifters." I would like to make the following point. There is almost a double morale, as if they were second-class citizens. If you are right about people in the Turkish community and you are using "pleasure" and not something like "I am ashamed," I would remind the Prime Minister that words matter. After all, you are ashamed of something that is close to you and with which you feel connected and "pleasure" you say to people you want to push away from you. Just at a time when you see these people being drawn from Turkey, we must do everything we can to make that connection, which is not always there, stronger with the Netherlands. This doesn't include "pleasure," but "you're with us and you're behaving, damn it."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u476	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. Our position, even in the second term, is demonstrated by the signing of a large number of motions. I don't have to go into that any further. I think that this evening it has also been clear that it is about words and deeds, about the attitude towards Turkey and about the internal affairs and the long arm of Turkey in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u477	Madam President. After all, it was a bit of the debate where the big words were not followed by deeds that claimed. What the Prime Minister is saying on TV, he has to know on his own, but it has become clear that he is only talking about the effect and not about actually doing something and changing it in the end. In that respect, I understand more about the Minister for Social Affairs, who says: they are not my words; I would say "ashame." It may be both, but one thing is clear: if the Prime Minister says that others have to piss off and also says that it's all or nothing, it can't end with an average. Actually, for the Prime Minister, it ends with nothing. If he and we all want to try to bring politics closer to people and show that we are doing something when we say something, this is simply the wrong example. That does not strengthen confidence in politics, but it weakens it. I have two motions on two points which concern me very much and the CDA. First of all, it is about the separation of Church and State, which exists in the Netherlands, but apparently not for foreign governments in the Netherlands. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Turkey's undesirable influence on Dutch society runs through Diyanet, the Turkish Ministry of Religious Affairs, which appoints and pays imams in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas this is at odds with the separation of church and state and that prayer houses should be of and for local religious communities;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to prevent prayer houses in the Netherlands from being financed by the Turkish authorities and to inform the Chamber within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas it is an aim of the Dutch law and the Dutch government to allow for dual nationality only exceptionally;]] [[whereas Turkey does not cooperate in this and that this has apparent undesirable consequences within Dutch society;]] [[calls on the Government to link the talks with Turkey with the reduction of double nationality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma, Segers and Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-155]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma and Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32824-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u478	Mr. Chairman. Given the time, I'll read out the motions immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey actively exports tensions between different groups to the Netherlands, which sometimes leads to high tensions;]] [[calls on the government to clearly condemn this long arm of Ankara,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the aftermath of the failed coup, Turkey abandoned the principles of the rule of law and democracy;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the suspension of pre-accession aid to Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey is engaged in war crimes in the Kurdish south-east of the country;]] [[Considering that Turkey has recently launched a military operation in northern Syria, which is mainly aimed at countering the advance of Kurdish fighters fighting against Islamic State;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the export of military equipment to Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Roemer, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Pechtold, Mr Klaver, Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32824-157]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Roemer and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-158]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-159]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u479	Mr. Chairman. Mr Klaver spoke today about the Kuzu line, but who better to explain what the Kuzu line is than Kuzu itself? The Kuzu line, I can tell you, is nothing but the Obama line and is nothing but the Merkel line. Because Merkel and Obama take that view, that is of course also the line of the cabinet. We do not care what all these parties in this Parliament are calling for. Whatever you do and whatever you say, we're moving on. We will stay and we will continue to make this sound of hundreds of thousands of people, because we love this country, perhaps even more than all those people who accuse us of a loyalty problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u480	The Prime Minister is requesting a suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u481	Madam President. I still have an answer to give you about this morning's reports on police registration of certain groups. Then I'll deal with a few motions. I would suggest that you then give my colleagues the opportunity to deal with a number of motions as well as possibly outstanding questions. I shall begin with the reports this morning on the registration of certain groups by the police, which would have been discussed in information meetings. The answer is as follows. The police regularly organise meetings with the aim of informing police officers about complex issues and topicality and to maintain their expertise. Such information meetings on relevant issues are held regularly within the police organisation. This meeting was about tensions in society related to the Turkish issue, but not specifically about the registration of PKK sympathizers. Why are these meetings held? They are important to ensure that the police people have a good context for their work, but also to ensure that the database of registrations for which the police are responsible by people who pose a threat functions and is used optimally. By the way, there is no registration on ethnicity. It does, of course, include the reason for registration. This is important for the police to be able to do the job. A good registration helps cops carry out their work on the street, the detective in solving cases and the police leadership in making choices. All this is intended for the sake of security in society. Access to that database requires authorisation, which regulates the blocking of the data. That happens in a hierarchical system. Only a limited number of people within the police can therefore consult the database. That is my answer to the open question. The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I see the disappointment. It is a disproportionate measure in the eyes of the cabinet. It is only conceivable in the case of terrorism. There is also a cabinet proposal. Furthermore, everyone is of course right before Dutch law, regardless of whether you have one or two nationalities: the same punishment for the same offence. The exception is therefore in the case of terror. The motion in part No. 155 by Mr Van Haersma Buma c.s. I don't recommend it. I have already said something about this in the first term. We will come soon with a letter about the building in Rotterdam. In that we will also address this issue more broadly. The Minister for Social Affairs also said a few things about it. As the motion now stands, it is contrary to the freedom of religion, I say to the spokesmen of the three parties based on religion. In the motion in part No. 156 is asked for a link. We do not think that link is desirable. I have just said that the debate with Turkey on dual nationality is difficult. As far as we are concerned, this is not a priority. It's a matter of inheritance and military service. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 156. Mr President, I politely suggest that you give the floor first to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He can then easily begin at the first motion filed. That might be useful for the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u482	Madam President. I'd like to give an opinion on a number of motions. The motion in part No. 149 by Mr Segers and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) I don't recommend it. I said earlier this evening that opening chapters with Turkey is not at the moment a matter for discussion. Cyprus is blocking that. It is still too early to make an assessment of the formal cessation of accession negotiations. This is a far-reaching step, which must be based on a thorough assessment of the situation, in which the Commission plays an important advisory role. That happens in November. I will, of course, send a letter to the Chamber on this. I also indicated earlier that I do not think it is sensible, either, on the basis of discussions with the opposition and human rights organisations. I therefore advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 150, also by Mr Segers and others, deals with visa liberalisation. We've talked about that before. I also advise against that motion. The Regulation lays down 72 conditions. It is primarily up to Turkey to comply. The EU is always using such a substantive approach to visa liberalisation pathways. We will abide by those conditions. There is no question of that, but we are not in favour of cutting off the talks now. I would therefore advise against the motion. I now turn to the motion Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 151. We have chosen words in the first term other than those used by Mr Pechtold in this motion. I said that we are very critical and we are also conveying this to the Turkish authorities, and that we are very concerned about the situation. At the same time, we are following a number of paths in the Council of Europe with the human rights representative who is going there, to give it a chance there, and in the Venice Commission. We agreed in the European Commission and in the Council of Europe that we would come to a final verdict. We are very critical. The motion states: speaks out of the Turkish Government's behaviour following the coup attempt to condemn it. I say again that we have a different use of words. Nevertheless, I understand the background to what the proposers are saying. I should therefore like to leave the vote on the motion to the House. If the Chamber wishes to pronounce this, we shall pass it on. The motion-Roemer c.s. in piece No. I would advise against 157. Where we observe what Mr Roemer is postulating here, so do we. And where it is not, it is actually superfluous. We therefore do not need this motion. I'd like to dissuade her. Mr Roemer does not agree with me, I see. In the Roemer/Segers motion in part No. 158 calls on the Government to promote the suspension of pre-accession aid to Turkey. I have good news for Mr Roemer about this, because the cabinet will indeed initiate the discussion in the EU framework about shortening or totally suspending pre-accession aid if circumstances so require. This means that we see this motion as a support for policy. In his motion in part No. 159 Mr Roemer asked the government to suspend the export of military equipment to Turkey. The Chamber knows that we are already examining all licence applications in a more critical way, including those to Turkey, even if it is a NATO alliance member. We are examining them in particular on the basis of the criteria of human rights and internal conflict. In internal conflict 3, a number of applications were also rejected. We are not in favour of a unilateral arms embargo against a NATO ally. That does not work in practice either. I would therefore advise against the motion. I would like to say to Mr Pechtold that I will indeed send him a brief note with the information he asked for. The fact that we have not warned companies and others has to do with the fact that we see this as a confidential diplomatic note. If you use it in the direction of organisations in Dutch society, the confidential character disappears. We do not think that is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u483	Mr. Chairman. We were asked what we did with the list. The answer is nothing. I would advise the Bontes motion in part No. 152. I have promised Mr Pechtold that we will come back to the budget on what can and cannot be done about integration and language for imams from Turkey. I would also advise against the Bontes motion in part No. 153. There is a need for Dutch imams instead of imported imams. I come to the motion-Van Haersma Buma c.s. in piece No. 155. The Prime Minister said that it would be contrary to religious freedom to do so. I have indicated that, precisely in connection with the case-Rotterdam, we will come up with a letter on how we deal with this particular issue of the financing of Salafism. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-21.u484	I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, their supporting officials, the MPs and the people who have followed this debate through another medium. We shall vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday 27 September.
