ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We should not punish the elderly in need and their children in order to take care of each other financially, but reward them. Punishments we give to criminals in criminal behavior. The rewarding of carers is all the more important now that yesterday one in five elderly people and people with disabilities have no one to look after him. These people are lonely. They don't have a caretaker. Unfortunately, this Secretary of State has no message about that. She has already punished more than 5,000 elderly people, AOW beneficiaries, by means of a household allowance. Older people to whom we must respect, because they have helped to build our country. Mostly first-generation guest workers and Surinamese Dutch with an AOW-hole are now the ruins of this household care fine. A fine of sometimes hundreds of euro's discount because they take care of their child, or vice versa, and for each other. That is not only harsh, it is also very discriminatory. They get that fine because they have an AOW hole and helped build our country. The result is also financially doomed. Families are torn apart and one goes to live separately, resulting in higher care and housing costs. The household allowance also affects tens of thousands of other families with benefits. Tens of thousands of AOWs hang over the household care fine as a sword of Damocles, because it will be introduced as of 2018, despite the promise of the PvdA fraction to postpone. Will the Secretary of State be honest now? Is she going to say: this is stupid, this is harsh politics, I'm going to stop doing this; that care allowance is going away, done with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about social security as a safety net and the aim is to provide for the necessary costs of living. The benefits of sharing the cost of living are present when living together under one roof. Wherever this cabinet, and so do I, attaches great importance to family care, there is no doubt that the welfare allowance is not the appropriate means of encouraging family care. Carers are supported in their care. People with disabilities or chronic, mental or psychosocial problems can call on their community for social support. The same applies to participation. So we're doing a lot about that. I really must stress that assistance is a safety net for people who cannot provide for their maintenance. We ensure, even with the introduction of the cost sharing standard, that one does not fall below the social minimum. I also informed the Chamber of this in my letter of 24 November 2014. That was about the amount of the welfare allowance. It follows from this letter that the cost sharing standard remains above the poverty line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u4	I asked the Secretary of State if she might be able to be honest and stop her discriminatory politics. I'll try with an example from Trouw yesterday. "All his life my son lives with me. He's 47 years old and mentally handicapped. I'm considering letting him live with us now, not because I want to, but because we'll have enough money. Last year my son's allowance and my extra contribution were cut. Together we had to return €340 per month. Now it's hard to make ends meet. If we move in separately, we'll have enough money. That's crazy, isn't it? We just want to take care of each other. With us is not one of the two caregivers, I take care of my child, who is unable to live on his own and he helps me clean and run errands. Those activities cost me a lot of effort, because twelve years ago I was hit by a car on the zebra path." This lady's been taking her money lightly. This lady does exactly what the cabinet says she wants of people, namely to participate and take care of each other, so that the cabinet can continue its austerity fetish, of which this is also a part. How does the Secretary of State feel about pretending to have these people on welfare while they're supposed to be working? These are our elders. It is the first generation that has been brought here, who has been recruited, to do very hard work. They have an AOW hole, so they already have a lower income. That's why they depend on that social minimum. They are also punished by the Secretary of State with a discount of €340. My last question to the Secretary of State is how much this joke costs. She hears it, I don't make it up, people say it. They're gonna live apart, they're gonna have to buy extra care, and it's gonna make them even more unhappy. The Secretary of State makes people unhappy. She's sensitive to costs. Is she prepared to map the costs so that we can make a cost-benefit analysis? Perhaps that will help convince the Secretary of State to refrain from this non-social, discriminatory policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mrs Karabulut rightly says that these are people who have a partial AOW, because they have not lived their whole lives in the Netherlands. So they've built up a partial AOW. If they do not have sufficient resources to live their lives, they can receive additional resources from the assistance. If people are in a cohabitation structure, they can share costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u6	So they can't!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u7	That part of the assistance is subject to the cost sharing standard. So I think that's as clear as glass. By the way, I insist on the fact that family care is a great asset.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u8	I have here the 50PLUS motion (34300, no. 36) of 17 September last year, in which the government is called upon to take the household allowance off the table permanently. Unfortunately, that motion did not succeed because both government parties voted against it. I am curious, by the way, whether the Labour Party still feels that way. Postponing the household allowance causes a lot of people to be insecure. It's about the group that was just mentioned, but it's really all about the elderly. I have two brief questions for the Secretary of State. Is it finally going to relieve the people in uncertainty from that uncertainty and is the care penalty definitely off the table? Doesn't she think it is also wrong to punish fellow-humanity, especially for the elderly, who are no longer, or almost no longer, able to supplement their income?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u9	In the Second and First Chambers of the States-General we have had many debates on two issues, the cost sharing standard AOW and the cost sharing standard assistance, including the AIO. We really need to separate those two things. We postpone the cost-sharing standard AOW until 1 January 2018. I have also updated the Chamber well and written letters about the fact that further investigation is being carried out. The cost sharing standard on assistance has been introduced. We don't intend to call this "what do you call it"? (b) to re-implement it. No, I mean, we'll run it, but we won't pull it back in.
