ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister, the Minister for Security and Justice and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. Before we begin this debate, on behalf of the Chamber, I would like to welcome the ambassadors of Australia, Malaysia and Ukraine to the Chair. His Excellency Brett Mason, Ambassador of Australia, His Excellency Ahmad Nazri Yusof, Ambassador of Malaysia, and His Excellency Oleksandr Horin, Ambassador of Ukraine, on behalf of the members of the House of Representatives it is my pleasure to welcome you to this debate on the investigation into the MH17 crash.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. 298 lives were lost on July 17, 2014. The intense sadness of that pitch black day is still palpable today. A lot's happened since then. The bodies of the victims have been retrieved in a way that has been complimented on behalf of the cabinet, and rightly so. The work is meticulously described by the Security Research Council. Russia has done everything in its power to question those conclusions, but they stand like a house. MH17 was a horrible wake-up call for everyone involved in safe civil aviation. Everyone has kept to their duties, legal obligations have been respected, but still things went wrong. It was a collective failure. That puts us in a very expensive position today: we must ensure that the chance of this happening again is as small as possible. That is why two points are at the heart of this debate for D66. Firstly, there is the great challenge of finding and bringing to justice the perpetrators; I have questions for the cabinet. Secondly, we must learn from the disaster and do everything we can to minimise the risks to civil aviation, and I think that the cabinet shows too little urgency in this regard. First of all, I will deal with the detection and trial of the perpetrators. The Prime Minister has promised himself personally to ensure that the perpetrators are tracked down and punished. That requires a great deal of patience from all of us. Last summer, Russia supplied us with a filthy territory. Putin torpedoed the plan to set up a UN tribunal to bring the perpetrators to justice. Putin vetoed the Security Council, a veto against a plan that was very much supported by many countries in that Security Council. Disappointing and inexplicable. This raises the question of what plan B of this cabinet is for trial and prosecution. When are we going to get a ruling on the strategy that the cabinet is going to follow? What are the criteria determining this final choice? After all, last summer the cabinet had chosen a strategy, so why not now? I also ask the cabinet to what extent we can expect Russia to cooperate. Does the Kremlin cooperate with the D.A.'s request for legal aid? Is Russia at all prepared to respect any course of justice? If so, which one? I'd like to get a response. I now come to the lessons for the future, first of all on the functioning of the NCTV (National Coordinator on Terrorism and Security). Despite all the efforts, there were also frustrations with the next of kin and the Chamber about the confirmation of the passenger list. This took a long time and was painful, as has the OVV. Information didn't come together. There was no direction and no coordination. It is against my heart that the minister of V and J now resorts to Passenger Name Records to record the nationality of passengers. Passenger Name Records are about terrorism. My group asks the Secretary of State for Aviation for a more purer, international initiative. MH17 was not the first... Mr President, this sentence is about another part of the subject. I think Mr Ten Broeke is going to interrupt the PNR section.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u3	I will also refer to PNR in my text. I think that the Government's response is completely inadequate, because it does not show in any way that there is a form of urgency to register the nationality of the passenger lists through that PNR. If we can find a way that is direct and good and PNR can provide an opportunity for that, we should simply take it. What's against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u4	I'm always in favour of the fastest route to success. I think you should look at the route you choose. The route of the PNR instrument is intended to combat terrorism. PNR brings together information that goes far beyond the nationality and destination of those on the plane. That is also the reason why my group has a great deal of shudder about the PNR instrument at the heart of the matter. So also on the route to solve the problems in this way. Mr Tjibbe Joustra, president of the OVV, says that there are other methods as well. Explore them, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u5	The cabinet responds in line with what Mr Sjoerdsma indicates. I find that less satisfying because it leads to nothing. I wonder what options D66 himself has explored. After all, we are standing here today to make headlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u6	Absolutely, we're standing here trying to nail the shit out of you. I do not think it is up to my group to come up with an international system for recording nationality. I'll conclude two things. The direction the cabinet is taking here seems to me to be inappropriate and unwise. I also note that the President of the OVV states that there are countless other ways of regulating this internationally. I think it's good to do that, too. I had joined the National Coordinator. MH17 isn't the first plane crash. What happened to the lessons of the Bijlmer and Lockerbie? Does the National Coordinator have that lesson, which the OVV also speaks of, in a row? How exactly does the cabinet follow these classes? The former president of the OVV states that these lessons have been carried out to a limited extent. Then the second lesson is to fly as safely as possible. No one can claim that flying becomes completely safe and that disasters are 100% excluded. But with flight routes above conflict zones such as Yemen, North Korea, Iraq, Ukraine, Syria, we must do everything we can to prevent a repetition of this tragedy. It should not matter to passengers whether they are flying with KLM, British Airways, Easyjet or Malaysia Airlines. This requires good risk information for all airlines. The cabinet is committed to a European alert system. Fine. New agreements are needed within ICAO. Fine. Within the Netherlands too, the cabinet can work and I see that far too little. I want to be very specific now. In the MH17 debate in April 2015, we asked the cabinet what it would do at national level to improve information sharing and risk analysis. It was replied that there will be a consultation with the sector, which will provide options and alternatives for improvement. I checked, and I couldn't find any of that, not a thing. Why is there no list of improvements, as promised a year ago by the then Secretary of State? Why does the cabinet response simply say that the consultation on information sharing is still taking place and that nothing else needs to be done? My group is presenting four proposals today. 1. Ensure that airlines make the routes public as much as possible so that passengers can make informed choices. 2. Organise a civil aviation unit under the supervision of the NCTV with only one central task: look with an aviation glasses at the risks of air routes of Dutch airlines and ensure sufficient capacity. 3. Ensure structural, proactive consultation between the intelligence services and civil aviation on the risks, because now the sharing of information on incidents and informal contacts depends. That is unacceptable to my group. 4. D66 considers that, in the extreme, the Dutch State should be able to impose a flight ban, as should the United States, the United Kingdom, France and Germany. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State for Aviation to these four proposals. I'm rounding up. The bottom stone has to be upstairs. The perpetrators must be tried and lessons learned for the future. That's a difficult assignment. A lot of steps have been taken, but we're not there yet. I'd like to hear from the cabinet how it's going to speed up the pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u7	Mr. Chairman. On 17 July 2014, 298 innocent civilians lost their lives on flight MH17/KL4107. Someone shot a Buk missile on the plane, according to the OVV report. That is the disaster, but who shot the plane and why on the MH17 and not on one of the dozen other planes that flew over East Ukraine that day? Who provided the opportunity and permission to shoot the MH17? These are important questions which are not yet the beginning of an answer, nineteen months after this attack. The Prime Minister has promised to do everything in his power to get the bottom line on this attack. We fully support him and the cabinet in this endeavour. That is why we have a debate today: to see what progress has been made. We understand that not everything can be told because there is an ongoing and important criminal investigation going on. Of course, this is not an easy task. There's a war going on in eastern Ukraine. Superpowers Russia and the US are deeply involved in this. In such an environment many want to keep many objective truths hidden. The MH17 studies are therefore carried out under great pressure. We appreciate researchers who do their utmost to bring out the truth. Ukraine should have closed its own airspace, the OVV concludes. He concludes on the basis of the Kiev briefing of 14 July, in which Ukraine tells us that a Antonov 26 was shot out of the sky by a rocket at 6.5 kilometers altitude. A clear and firm conclusion, but a conclusion that could only be drawn after it became known that the Netherlands was present at the Kiev briefing. That was six months after the disaster. There was a lot of media attention and it required parliamentary questions, but only after it became public, the OVV received that memo from the Dutch government. During the last debate, the government undertook to talk to the OVV and also to the University of Twente on that report today, about whether the researchers had all the cooperation and documents. When did these two talks take place and what did both the OVV and the University of Twente indicate? Could the government have met that? From the primary raw radar data, you can most likely see a rocket flying. And what does it turn out to be? This is the only aviation disaster in Europe in the last ten years where this data is not available to researchers. Following the last debate, two of Ukraine's radar installations were broken. This is different from what the OVV report says, namely that they are under maintenance. The OVV says that Ukraine has said this and has not corrected it in response to the preliminary report, and in Annex W Ukraine corrects many conclusions. The OVV therefore assumes that the radar was in maintenance. But if Ukraine itself says here after the hearing that it is not true that the radar was in maintenance, but that it was shot, then what is going on? Which version is correct? How does the Dutch Government view this? Russia makes it even more colourful. It destroyed the primary radar data. We cannot find out if the OVV has asked them in the first 28 days, but Russia, which agrees and promises to cooperate in the UN Security Council, is destroying them. Secretary Kerry of the United States claims on television at least five times: we have the radar data, because we have seen the plane disappear off radar. And what does the OVV's answers show? The OVV never asked the U.S. for radar data. When was the Prime Minister told that these radar data were not available and when did he know about the conclusions? Was that October 13th? Was that in June? Was it October 12th? Has he at any time appealed to these countries for failure to provide evidence? And why didn't the Prime Minister do that publicly? All these leaders have publicly committed themselves in the UN Security Council and elsewhere to cooperating in the investigation, and yet something else is happening. These are the actions to get the bottom of the stone. How does the Dutch government assess the fact that the OVV did not speak to MH17's air traffic controller and told the Chamber not to remember? Does the government know of another air disaster that has taken place somewhere in the world and which has not been discussed with the air traffic controller himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u8	What radar data does Mr Omtzigt refer to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u9	I'm referring to any radar data that's available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u10	Maybe he's referring to NATO's records?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u11	I don't know if it's the same data as NATO. It's possible. Minister Kerry tells us in the week after the attack for at least four American television stations that the Americans saw the plane disappear off the radar. It reiterates this two months later at the joint meeting between the Americans and the Australians. That's also officially on the U.S. Department of Defense's website. He says: we saw it disappear from the radar screens. Then I don't know what the Americans have. Is it primary radar or secondary radar? So we asked the OVV the written question whether radar data has been requested from the US. The answer to that question was no. That surprises us, because the OVV said at the beginning of the investigation: we would like to see these radar data if necessary. It is therefore a matter of something other than satellite data, which seems to have been provided through a secret military briefing. In all of those statements from Kerry, he didn't say it once, but five times he was talking about radar data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u12	I'm asking for this for the following reason. Mr Omtzigt already says that these satellite data appear to be provided in a military briefing. Of course, that has already been reported to us on the day that the OVV gave that presentation, so Mr Omtzigt knows that very well. I don't think there's any radar data in the U.S. Maybe there's AWACS radar data. They're NATO. However, there are no radar data in the US. We've got the satellite data. That's what we asked for. I believe that the answer given by the OVV is very clear on this point. Nor does it depart from the information contained in the report which was also provided later in the briefing, the briefing given by the OVV to the Chamber. So let's not get any more fog on the radar data. That data has simply been made fully available there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u13	The satellite data was made available by the Americans to two researchers via a secret briefing via the STUDY. Now that we can ask that question, I ask: is it not wise to use Under Secretary Nuland's offer at an appropriate time to ask for partial or total declassification towards the course of justice? So this doesn't have to happen overnight. But this is about the satellite section. However, we explicitly asked about the radar section. That radar section was never asked of the Americans. The OVV has publicly said that they would have liked to have seen that radar data. That is why we wonder why they did not ask what information they had. Kerry literally says, "We saw this aeroplane dysfunction from the radar screens." So these were radar screens, not satellite images. It may be that he meant something else, but then the Americans would have access to radar footage somewhere. It is completely unclear to me whether it was through another power, through NATO or through the American imagery. After all, they also had quite a number of army units for training there. It is completely unclear to me what that access was like, and I am not going to go into it. But at least you can put the question to the US.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u14	I believe that the issue of radar data has now been clarified, at least as far as the Americans are concerned. I think the OVV has been very clear about this from the beginning. At least in my memory that has always been very clear. There was satellite data. These have been shared in the way Mr Omtzigt now puts it, namely through the STUDY to two of the researchers. The question now is whether Mr Omtzig qualifies that as sufficient. Does he consider that all the members of the OVV should have seen those data, or does he consider that this is sufficient to support those conclusions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u15	I didn't mention the satellite data. That's what we're gonna talk about at the time of the prosecution and trial. Then I think it would be wise for there to be a partial declassification, so that at least it will be discussed openly in court, including with a suspect. He may also ask what material it is. Otherwise, it can't be used. But I'm talking about radar data here. We were only told last Thursday that they were never asked of the Americans. I am now asking for clarification on this, because it has never been delivered. The material of the OVV and of the University of Twente is secret. It is also secret what evidence there is, while the information on Ukraine's radar is partially incorrect. Whether the first explanation of Ukraine is correct, or the second. Yet no one can reach it for the next 100 years. Why was that chosen? The CDA Group had requested the WODC's research protocols before the study started. We didn't get it until after the investigation was completed. And what's pale? The ministers, who had seen those research protocols, have agreed to a research protocol in which interviews with ministers remain forever secret from Parliament. That's undesirable. Is the Prime Minister prepared to undertake to make these interview reports accessible to researchers and to Parliament when necessary? That can be done in a confidential manner. It is also about the interview that was conducted with him himself. For later on, it is important that cases around the MH17 are available, for example if the government itself wants to reopen the investigation, as is currently the case with the Faroramp. Is the government prepared to ask the state archivist for an inventory and to keep it properly, including interview reports, all the archives of the ministries, the e-mails of the ministerial and the administrative commission, diplomatic e-mails, documents from the OVV and the WODC and everything else that the state archivist considers important? Many cases can only become public after the criminal investigation, but must be available. Only then can the actions of the Dutch Government be properly assessed in its entirety. I have two questions about the handling. In the report of the University of Twente it says that in the morning a Dutchman of the team in Kiev had already found that there had been extremely neat handling of the material surpluses of the victims. On the same night, the then Foreign Minister said in a huge slogan that that had not happened. Did that information reach that minister on that day? If not, what happened there? Has there been an attendance record from the ministerial committee and the departmental committee and is that attendance record complete for each meeting? Very important decisions were taken. With regard to flying unsafe routes, I can join D66 for short. Why does the Netherlands not opt for a legal obligation for the intelligence services to inform? Why has the Netherlands never put anything on the ICAO website? Then I come to prosecution and trial. Do we understand that there is a meeting in Kuala Lumpur at the end of this month? What is the Dutch preference: a joint tribunal or a single tribunal? What role does Ukraine play now? The conclusion that it should have closed the airspace means that there can be some liability for Ukraine. What impact does that have on the JIT?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u16	Finish, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u17	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Is that JIT extended and should it be submitted to the Chamber? For the CDA, it is only when suspects are sued and there is sufficient evidence for a conviction that the lower stone will be delivered. The circumstances are extremely difficult, but the focus must remain on them. This is the only way we can do justice to the fact that 298 innocent people have been attacked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u18	My apologies, Mr President, I did not realize that at some point the block on radar images et cetera was over. I'm gonna go back there anyway. The previous debate in the Chamber centred on one question. We are all dissatisfied with the fact that not all radar and satellite images are there, but the discussion was: do you have to do a lot of resurrection about this internationally now, or is it perhaps not wise in the interests of criminal investigation? Mr Omtzigt briefly referred to the first thesis, and I would like to say the second thesis. I am only confused, because Mr Omtzigt endorsed his speech at the time with a motion calling on the cabinet to call on the UN, ICAO, all kinds of countries and NATO to bring about this resurrection, but that motion was never put to the vote. Does that mean that Mr Omtzigt still agrees with the opinion of, in my opinion, a majority in the Chamber that it is better to give priority to a proper criminal investigation at least in the first instance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u19	That doesn't mean that. A number of parties had asked these questions, including to the government and the OVV. These questions should have been answered the Thursday before the recess, but there was some delay. It did not seem chic to me to put that motion to the vote while we were still waiting for the answers on exactly that same dossier. That's why I stopped her. That's good use here. Those answers showed, somewhat to my surprise, that the US has never been asked for radar data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u20	Okay. The motion was filed on 4 February. In it, Mr Omtzigt asks for this to be done within ten days. Well, at least that's what he let go of. Is he going to table that motion or is he going to join those who say: let us give the Public Prosecutor all the peace and space first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u21	It would be very wise to ask for those radar images after all. Now that we have a debate with the Prime Minister for the first time in a year and a half, I would like to put that question explicitly to him, because if I had put the motion to the vote today, Mr Servaes would now have said to me: why do you do that an hour before the debate? I'm giving the Prime Minister the opportunity to answer here. It has been recess for the past week, as Mr Servaes knows. That seems very sensible to me. By the way, I would like to say to those who say that you should keep everyone friendly now: if you allow countries not to provide information, you would rather send out the signal that they do not have to cooperate fully in tracking down the perpetrators. That is why it seems clear to me that you are also naming who did not provide that information. That's what I've been trying to do in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u22	Mr. Chairman. More than a year and a half after the attack on flight MH17, we are talking again today about this horrible event, which killed 298 people. In October, the Research Council for Security published the report on the impact of the crash. The criminal investigation is now in full swing. Although, of course, extreme care must be taken, the hope is that the perpetrators can be prosecuted quickly. During last month's debate on radar and satellite data, the SP asked whether the Cabinet could do more to obtain relevant data for criminal investigations. The Minister then indicated that the Public Prosecutor's Office, working in an International Joint Investigation Team (JIT), currently has sufficient information and that there is no need to make requests for additional information. Following the recent letter from the Public Prosecutor's Office to relatives, I nevertheless have a number of questions about this. That letter says the D.A. doesn't have any raw primary radar data. It is added that such data could possibly provide information about the missile trajectory. It is well known but at the same time completely incomprehensible that Ukraine, in its own words, has not recorded this data. On Russia, the letter from the State's Attorney's Office states that the country has been asked for this raw, primary data but that it has not been supplied to date. Previously, Russia argued that those data were not retained. Can we respond to this? How is it possible that the OVV did not request radar data from the United States? Can we also respond to the fact that Ukraine did not report to the European air traffic control organisation EUROCONTROL that radars were off when they should have been? How is this assessed? Furthermore, the letter to the next of kin states that the D.A. does not have satellite images of the launch of the rocket. It is also stated that due to clouds no usable images are available from the firing site on the day part on which the MH17 was shot. That is strange, because three days after the crash, US Secretary of State Kerry claimed to have this satellite data at his disposal. Can it be stated how it is possible that the information that the Americans claim to have is apparently not in the hands of the prosecution? What can the Netherlands do about this? Another theme is flying over conflict zones. In response to written questions from the Chamber, the cabinet replied that the Dutch government does not have an independent role in collecting threat information relating to airspace safety over conflict areas; therefore, there would be no separate intelligence position in this area. During the hearing in January on the MH17 crash, several experts argued that the attack in eastern Ukraine demonstrates that intelligence services or any other body should have that task. Other countries which do carry out this task were also mentioned. Although it has already been requested, it remains unclear to me why the cabinet does not consider it appropriate to give a public authority the legal task of actively seeking relevant information on the insecurity or safety of an airspace. Can this still be discussed? According to the SP, there is also a responsibility for the Dutch government. As a consequence, the question arises as to whether the public authorities should have the possibility of prohibiting a national air carrier from flying in a given airspace. In reply to written questions on this subject, the Minister states that, in the light of international binding regulations, Dutch legislation does not provide for this. I'm surprised at that answer. It is, of course, the sovereignty of a country to close its own airspace, but in practice there are understandable reasons, both politically and financially, for states to refrain from doing so. The OVV concludes in its final report that there was sufficient reason for Ukraine to exclude airspace above the conflict area as a precautionary measure. But that didn't happen. I am also surprised by the Minister's position, because the answer to written questions recognises that international legislation does not explicitly prevent countries from prohibiting their national airline from flying over certain foreign territories. There are also countries that are already applying this practice. Can it be stated why the Netherlands is not going to do this too? Instead of banning it, advice could also be given not to fly over a particular area. It must be admitted that there may be perverse incentives for sovereign states not to close their own airspace, but that is why. I'd like a response. Following the attack on flight MH17, the ICAO World Aviation Organisation set up a website with information on flight safety over conflict zones. Since then, there has been some criticism of the operation of this website, which has only been mentioned by ten countries to date. I understand that an evaluation of the website is imminent, but I would like to hear from the cabinet how the functioning of the website is assessed to date. Can the question of how much has changed in the last year and a half with regard to the sharing of relevant information by intelligence services be addressed? Are improvements to this, or do intelligence services continue to hold important information mainly in their own hands? Finally, a comment on the provision of information to the next of kin. The report of the OVV states that survivors of the flight MH17 disaster had to wait unnecessarily long for clarity about the presence of their relatives on the plane, including due to an insufficiently prepared crisis organisation and a lack of direction and coordination. Can the Prime Minister comment on this and state whether there is a need for an apology from the cabinet on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u23	Mr. Chairman. On the day of the MH17 disaster, the heart of many Dutch people stood still. 298 victims, including 196 Dutch, left their lives and for the relatives, family, friends, classmates and teammates only the emptiness; an unbearable, screaming emptiness caused by the loss of a loved one. The screaming emptiness is made tangible to me in a dignified way by the photo reportage of the Dutch Ilvy Njiokiktjien. Through her lens you are taken to that empty nursery, to the desk of the teacher who will no longer sit there, to the guitar that will no longer be played. With the prospect of the two-year anniversary, it is important that we clarify as soon as possible who the perpetrators are, whether prosecution is possible and, if so, how. At least a number of important steps have been taken with the report of the Research Council for Security. Through the thorough work of the Research Council we know the specific type of Buk rocket and we can say with some certainty that the rocket was fired from the area controlled by pro-Russian rebels. That's a good thing. It is also positive that the government adopts almost all the recommendations of the OVV. This is due to the thorough research and the seriousness of the matter. I have some specific questions. I'll start with the radar footage. The discussion about radar images has begun to lead a whole life of its own, which my group deeply regrets. The primary radar images are missing, because Russia and Ukraine apparently do not want to cooperate. One country says not to store the images and the other says it had all the radar systems in maintenance on that day. At the same time, following the example of the Office and the OVV, the cabinet indicates that the added value of these images is low and that they do not detract from the evidence available to the relevant actors. The latter may be so, but the cabinet seems to be satisfied with the embarrassing behaviour of the Ukrainians and the Russians. This has created the image that information is withheld. In the event of such a painful disaster as with the MH17, it is not only important that all crucial information is collected, but also that efforts are made to counter the ghost stories. That is precisely why primary radar images are important. I therefore appeal to the Prime Minister for his responsibility and ask him to do his utmost to find out about these radar images. In addition, the president of the OVV, Mr Joustra, indicated that it had become clear to the OVV that the missile was fired from the area controlled by the pro-Russian rebels; however, additional forensic research is required to find out exactly the location. My group would therefore like to know whether the Joint Investigation Team is going to do the same. Then I'll come to the information. On one recommendation, I have a specific question. The voluminous report pays great attention to improving the information position of the various parties involved in airspace safety, particularly in conflict zones. The proactive sharing of that information is crucial; it needs to be improved. Several improvements have already been made. However, the cabinet has also indicated that the Dutch intelligence services have no legal task to conduct independent investigations into the global threat against civil aviation. It is a very ambitious effort to do so globally, but an independent legal mandate for the intelligence services to conduct research certainly seems appropriate when it comes to flying over conflict zones. Is this government going to make this legal? In addition, during the hearing, the KLM argued that the provision of information between the intelligence services and the airlines should be guaranteed by law. Does the cabinet intend to provide for this? On the contrary, the policy response of the cabinet describes the provision of information very positively. It appears that the information the airlines would like to have is not yet provided to a sufficient extent. I would like to receive a response from the cabinet on these two points, otherwise I will consider tabling a motion in the second term. The OVV has found that it is not now clear which airlines' flights cover which conflict areas. The report therefore states that airlines should make such information available. This is very relevant in this debate, as some airlines have not flown over conflict areas in Ukraine. Although the Cabinet expresses its support for these recommendations, it does not seem to take any initiatives to achieve this information exchange. I would like to know from the Prime Minister what role the cabinet sees for itself. Then I come to the ICAO website, where relevant information should be exchanged better and faster. My group also understands that this initiative is still in its infancy, but it is concerned about the non-binding nature of this initiative. If information is shared only on a voluntary basis, it is expected that this will provide little crucial information. How does the Cabinet see this? What possibilities does the Prime Minister see for increasing the incentive to share information? I'm here to talk about the prosecution. It is clear that today we are not getting any clarity on the question of guilt. That's not what the O.V.V.'s report was about either. However, it is clear that the Russians seem to frustrate virtually any possibility of progress in the MH17 investigation. Not only have they made impossible even the possibility of a UN tribunal on its own, but they have also criticised the findings of the OVV before they have even been able to take note of the conclusions. A crucial question is whether the Russians are cooperating enough to actually allow prosecution. This does not seem to be the case in view of their "neet" in the UN Security Council. How does the Cabinet address the Russians on their responsibility? In any case, the Christian Union Group is convinced that the pressure on the Russians must be increased in order to allow persecution. Does the Prime Minister, in his role as EU President, see opportunities to take the lead in this matter at EU level? Finally. It is very important for all concerned, especially for the next of kin, that justice is done and that the perpetrators can be tried.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u24	Mr. Chairman. Nineteen months after the disaster with the MH17 we mark the end of the second phase, namely the examination by the OVV. The VVD is impressed by the in-depth reporting of the OVV. The report has been viewed and weighed all over the world, but also praised. All conspiracy theorists have been able to bite their teeth on it, but the report is still standing. I also have great respect for the work done by Internet researchers, such as Bellingcat's collective. This takes place between the work of the OVV and that of the D.A. and the JIT, namely between charge and debt. We're dealing with the situation today. We hope to be able to raise the question of guilt as soon as possible. After all, what is experienced as convincing in the living room or in the Lower House doesn't have to be in a courtroom. In front of us is a comprehensive report with a clear conclusion, in which it is convincingly stated: it was a Buk rocket. However, as Mr Voordewind said, we have not yet put the perpetrators behind bars. At the end of the report with this clear conclusion, the OVV makes recommendations on many aspects. The VVD actually agrees with all these recommendations, but it is about how best and fastest to implement them, for example when it comes to recording nationality and passenger data. On the basis of the answers to questions we have asked, I conclude that the government seems to lack urgency. The little debate I just had with Mr Sjoerdsma was about the Passenger Name Record. As far as I am concerned, any legislation in which that can be dealt with is good enough. The same applies to PNR, which now offers the quickest opportunity and ultimately also concerns aviation safety. I would like to talk in this debate about the flight routes, the retention of radar data and the role of the intelligence services. I'm gonna go on the flight routes first. It is and remains the responsibility of sovereign states to close or not close the airspace. It is the consideration of an individual airline that, if that airspace is open, it should or should not fly over it. It's gotta stay that way. A good information position for airlines is essential. However, in order to improve that information position, both air carriers such as ICAO and EASA are to be discussed with a view to involving them much more, as well as with the authorities of countries where these airlines are located. The criticism we made in the previous debate on radar data remains with me. This means getting and bringing information in a more self-evident way than has been the case so far. All those involved, sovereign states, airlines, airlines and public authorities and their intelligence services must make a real extra effort from their own responsibilities. In this first term, of course, I would like to know from the Cabinet how it itself intends to improve the exchange of information between states, intelligence services and airlines when it comes to flying over those conflict zones. However, we cannot stop there, not after a disaster of this magnitude and not in a world where chaos is increasing, the number of weapons is rapidly proliferating and the number of combat groups seems to be multiplying equally quickly. I would like to hear from the cabinet how it can promote the sharing of information between state and airlines, here and elsewhere. This therefore concerns international legislation and regulations. That is a long road ahead of us. I hope to hear from the Secretary of State about it later, but it is also about the agreements we have made ourselves in the Netherlands. In 2013, for example, agreements have already been made on the sharing of information between the Dutch government and airlines. The OVV now concludes that these agreements need much more structure. For example, there is a consultation between the Ministry of I and M, the NCTV, the security services and Foreign Affairs on acute concrete threat information. However, an AIVD investigation that took place here in 2013 into Islamic terror showed that there was a link with terrorist groups in the Sinai. That by-catch led to the advice of airlines to not fly there. There was also a structural consultation on threat information through a national expert group that meets four times a year. So there is a lot of consultation; that is also very Dutch, but what gives the passengers the assurance that this will provide more safety for the chosen routes or when starting up and countries in conflict zones? I have also had a tendency, for example, to amend the Intelligence and Security Services Act, but the deployment of the security services is only based on a very serious suspicion against groups or individuals who intend to harm Dutch security. But what if there was no intention, but the threat and the risk? Maybe we don't know that yet in Ukraine that was the case. Security services should not be expected to sit in the seat of KLM's Director Operations, but perhaps we can fill in the powers now enshrined in the law with new agreements, if necessary with a covenant. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister. Following the hearing and the conversations conducted, the VVD feels it is necessary to establish a form of certification of air carriers, which will examine the trade-offs that airlines make with regard to routes over dangerous areas, both for passengers and for other stakeholders. Is the government prepared to make a commitment to this, for example by recording this in Annex 19 of the Chicago Convention? I'm considering tabling a motion on this. Does the Secretary of State also want to reflect on the idea that companies with a safety system may also deserve a different treatment from those that do not? I'm now going into the retention obligation for radar data. The Secretary of State pleads for an international retention obligation, but how far does it go? As far as we are concerned, it can go so far that aircraft that have not yet reached the next state's airspace but which have already been contacted should be included. In any case, that would have given much more clarity in the Russians' example. I also have a question for the Foreign Minister, because all this requires a great deal of diplomatic push and pull. The Netherlands, bearing in mind Hugo de Groot, should put regulation not only free but also safe airspace high on the agenda. That's a matter of honor. With like-minded countries like the UK, Germany, Canada or the US, we should even be at the forefront of this. What is the Prime Minister going to do to encourage this in the EU Presidency? That must be worth a lot to him personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u25	Mr. Chairman. The policy of secrecy is deeply rooted in The Hague; RTL journalist Pieter Klein stated this in one of his columns. He hit the nail on the head with that. The aftermath of the attack on the MH17 is characterized by tight secrecy and lax action. We've seen before that the cabinet was trying to cover up the Kiev briefing. Over the past few months, it appears that the cabinet is not doing anything to get all the radar footage. Furthermore, the minutes of the Council of Ministers and the interviews with the directors are kept secret. This shows once again that the cabinet has something to hide, but also the OVV does not exercise any openness. Crucial questions about the missing radar images and the non-hearing of Ukrainian and Russian air traffic controllers are not answered. The OVV refuses to explain why Ukraine's statement on non-functioning civilian radars is at odds with the investigation report. This nourishes the distrust of the population. Survivors have already established a working group on truth finding, which is going to follow the government critically. The failing action is poignant to see. We say to the cabinet: stop this secrecy and work with the OVV for clarity! It's time for the truth to come out. The cabinet made many mistakes before and after the attack. In the first days, Minister Timmermans failed to fly straight to Moscow to negotiate the repatriation. Then he blundered his story about the mouth cap. A small-scale flight was also returned. Our policemen and military officers were sent out in Eastern Ukraine unarmed. That was an irresponsible decision, which could have had serious consequences. The focus on the ICAO website was a very bad choice. We say: strengthen our national intelligence position. It was found to be insufficient at the time of the attack. Give the AIVD the legal obligation to investigate the safety of routes and to inform air carriers accordingly. The D.A. expects to have eyes on the perpetrators later this year. We call on the Prime Minister to put his fist on the table. It is time for these murderers to finally be extradited and punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u26	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the MH17 disaster following the comprehensive report of the Research Council for Security. That report made one thing crystal clear: the disaster with the MH17 flight was a violent attack with a Buk rocket. That's for sure. The PVV thanks the Research Council for this clarity. Unfortunately, however, the report of the Research Council also makes it clear that both Ukraine and Russia have not provided primary radar images to the Research Council. That raises a lot of questions. On the primary radar images we could see where the Buk missile was fired and what else was going on in the sky. Shouldn't we want to know? We cannot therefore simply accept the fact that radar images have not been shared with the Research Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Is the Minister of 'the bottom stone must be above', of course, I am referring to the Prime Minister, who agrees with me that we cannot accept that? The murder weapon is now known, but the circumstances under which it was fired are still foggy. That leaves room for speculation, especially with regard to radar images. You probably don't have to expect any further cooperation from Russia. Russia has been questioning from the beginning and is an unbelievable partner in this. Or does the Secretary of State still see that change? He spoke with his Russian colleague in Munich and referred to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2166 which also obliges Russia to cooperate in the investigation of MH17 and which Russia has also agreed to. What was the response of Minister Lavrov when the Foreign Minister pointed this out to him? I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. With Ukraine, cooperation in obtaining radar images should be self-evident, because Ukraine is on the judicial investigation team and, if it is up to the cabinet, Ukraine will soon be drawn into Brussels' sphere of influence. In short, you should be able to expect some honesty, but nothing so far has shown. The Research Council concluded its investigation and considers that the results could not be changed by any missing radar images. Of course, we would not be able to assess whether that is the case unless we had those missing radar images. But even if the missing radar images merely confirm the results of the Research Council, it still has a certain added value in itself, I think. Now that the Research Council does not want to do so, it is therefore important that the government itself in Kiev investigates those images and the radar stations of Ukraine. Is the Prime Minister prepared to ensure that this is done? Why were the radar stations in Eastern Ukraine disabled, as Ukraine itself claimed? That's weird, by the way. Experts who have been heard by the Court assessed that as not plausible. So it's important to detective on that. Various and even conflicting statements have been issued by the Ukrainian side about the presence of radars. That makes it even more questionable. So it is all the more important to clarify this. Why were Ukraine's radar systems not on, if that's true, while Ukrainian planes were shot out of the sky in the weeks preceding that? That has to be made clear. Does the Minister wish to clarify this by asking Ukraine? I would also like to hear from the Prime Minister how he assesses the fact that Ukraine did not report to EUROCONTROL that these radars had been turned off, because we still do not have any clarity about that either. How does our government feel about that? If there is an air crash somewhere, there is always talk with the air traffic controllers in question. That is normally logical, but that logic seems to be lacking in the case of MH17. The report and the answers to supplementary questions show that the Research Council did not speak to air traffic controllers. This is an incomprehensible course of action. How does the Prime Minister judge this negligence? Can he tell us why we have not spoken to the air traffic controllers of Russia and Ukraine? Does the Prime Minister wish to promote that these potentially crucial informants will still be spoken to? Now I'm going into the criminal investigation. The Minister of Security and Justice indicated a few weeks ago that the D.A. doesn't need additional radar footage. That's what he would have heard orally from the D.A.'s office. But in a letter to the next of kin, we read that the D.A. has no radar footage of the launch or the trajectory of the Buk missile. If the D.A. doesn't have that footage, why isn't there a need to get it, so I ask the Minister of Security and Justice. From experts who have been heard by the Chamber, we understand that the primary radar images can provide more clarity about the firing location and the trajectory travelled by the rocket. That's why I'd like to know why the D.A. doesn't want those extra primary radar images at all. I would also ask the Minister for Security and Justice how we should proceed with the prosecution of possible offenders now that it is clear that no UN tribunal is being set up to bring these perpetrators to justice. What's the perspective for that now? I come to the safety of airspace. As regards air safety, the Research Council concludes that ministries and intelligence services had no information on a concrete threat to civil aviation in Ukraine and therefore no warning was given to that civil aviation. But we knew that all kinds of military planes had been shot down near bushes in eastern Ukraine. However, this is not linked to the safety of civil air traffic. The PVV believes that the cabinet should learn lessons from this and therefore the government should free up capacity with the intelligence services, so that the link with civil air traffic safety will be established in future. Monitoring the safety of civil aviation must become an independent task for the intelligence services. Air carriers should also be able to operate information, both on their own initiative from the public authorities and when air carriers request it. All this must of course be laid down by law. Is the government prepared to regulate the capacity needed for this and the legal change? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u27	Mr. Chairman. With the crash of the MH17, 298 occupants have become victims of war violence. It's not because of technical or human failure, it's because the plane was shot out of the sky. I'm sure that's on the basis of the investigation of the Security Research Council. With an air target missile, a Buk missile, from the separatist-occupied area of eastern Ukraine. In the meantime, two of the three priorities set by the cabinet have been completed following the completion of this study. The repatriation of the victims and property was carried out as well as possible in the very difficult circumstances. That deserves a great deal of appreciation. The investigation into the consequences of the disaster has been completed by the Research Council and in our opinion the Research Council has done so very well and we can support the conclusions and recommendations of this report. The OVV has also taken the Russian criticism of this investigation seriously. Both in the report and in a round table discussion and a separate letter, those comments have been refuted. We have to conclude that, in the end, there is not so much a difference of opinion as there is a form of propaganda on the part of Russia to discredit the report. Nevertheless, this report stands like a house. The way Dutch authorities dealt with the crisis has also gone a lot well. The way in which the bodies have been repatriated deserves a great deal of appreciation. I told you. There has been constructive cooperation with Ukraine, the OSCE and with the countries most affected. The evaluation committee of the University of Twente also has a number of criticisms. The provision of information to next of kin was too slow in the first instance. The period of uncertainty has taken too long. A third of the next of kin has never even been officially informed that their family member died in the disaster. Has the government learned any lessons from this? And what does that tell us now? The crisis response in The Hague should also have taken greater account of the international dimension. The State Department and the Defense Department were a bit attached, whereas the first ministry might have had a leading role. Has the crisis management organisation been adapted to this? For the assessment of the safety of the flight route, several co-responsible persons are identified in the report of the OVV. In the round table it was discussed that everyone did their job, but that together this did not lead to a correct assessment. The information collection and sharing system therefore needs to be adapted. The public authorities should actively provide information on the safety situation within the Netherlands or at European level and should even be required to share threats with airlines. What progress has been made on the initiative of the European Aviation Organisation, EASA, for a European alert and information system? Can such a system actually be implemented in the short term? What does this mean for the conduct of the cabinet? Is there an active promotion and interference in this area, or not? And is this going to lead to a form of urgent advice, legitimised by the national or European authorities, on the security situation in airspace? The question now remains how to deal with the criminal proceedings. Will there be any cooperation at all from the Russian Federation in the criminal proceedings? The message from Bellingcat that the Russian military leadership would have ordered a Buk unit to be sent to Ukraine might make that even more unlikely. The Russian veto of the proposal for an international tribunal can only be seen as a blow in the face of anyone who has a heart for the international legal order. The Putin regime is again showing its true nature. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether Russia has now put forward its own proposals on how the perpetrators should be tried. What proposals are those? The prosecution now reports that national prosecution by one of the countries of the Joint Investigation Team or prosecution by an international tribunal set up by these countries would be an option. Does this mean that a definitive departure has been made from a form of cooperation with the Russian Federation in the further criminal proceedings? Could the Minister comment on that? A lot of the next of kin is required, a lot of patience. In his letter, the D.A. gives an example of the Lockerbie trial, in which the defendants were brought to justice after ten years. Can the cabinet give an indication of the time limit for a further step in this process? Finally. Let us show the utmost determination together to get the perpetrators of and those responsible for this horrific attack before the courts as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u28	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the OVV's final report on the flight disaster MH17. The report was published on 13 October last year. That was an important but also eventful day for many. After thorough and independent investigation, it was finally possible to determine exactly what happened on 17 July 2014. What many suspected was confirmed by the OVV: 298 people were the victims of an attack. They lost their lives in a war that wasn't theirs. Faced with the fog from Moscow, the OVV placed crystal clear conclusions. For that, the Research Council deserves our compliments. Creating fog, raising a smokescreen and feeding conspiracy theories continues to this day. I myself spoke last week with a delegation of Russian parliamentarians at a conference in Vienna. I got the whole repertoire thrown at my feet: the OVV was biased and biased, the West repeatedly accused others of the attack and harsh evidence, in their words, of the Russian Buk manufacturer were deliberately excluded from the investigation. And by the way, I am sorry for your countrymen and your colleague from the Senate. I'm not exaggerating, Mr. Chairman. We should not be naive about the complex field of forces in which the researchers have had to operate and in which the Public Prosecutor and the JIT are still active at the moment in their efforts to get the criminal case to pass. They must lay an extremely difficult puzzle with many pieces, while a geopolitical whirlwind rages around them. It is precisely for this reason that we must stand up for their independence, their expertise and hopefully their hard proof in the near future. The Research Council rightly describes that the tragedy surrounding MH17 points to a broader problem, as far as I am concerned, the core issue for today, namely that there is no watertight international system to ensure the safety of airspace, especially over conflict zones. The old system of the sovereign state responsible for safety in its own airspace is fragile. Motives such as political loss of face and loss of income from overflight rights or a lucrative tourist sector can influence the judgements of states. It has become clear, among other things, from discussions at the hearing, that there must be a great deal of work on top at all levels. The alertness we now have must be maintained, even if the MH17 disaster is to continue in the past. This applies both to the aviation sector and to the public authorities themselves, both at national and international level. We must learn from what has happened and take measures to minimise the risk of a similar disaster in the future. In this respect, it is good that the government adopts the recommendations of the OVV. In two areas, at national and international level, the PvdA wants to clarify what will happen next. I'll start with the national level. Air carriers are themselves responsible for their flight routes and therefore they have to make their own assessment of safety. They collect information in a variety of ways, including through the government. As far as the PvdA is concerned, although the responsibility for this must remain with the airlines, the authorities must ensure that the airlines are informed as well as possible. I ask the Cabinet whether it can outline what steps it has taken in the meantime to improve the collection, analysis and, above all, the sharing of information on airspace safety. Can the cabinet also indicate how the consultations with the Dutch airlines have now been organised or will be intensified?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u29	During the hearing, the KLM specifically asked the MPs, including the MPs, to arrive at a legal anchoring of that information. How does the PvdA feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u30	I've taken note of that. That could be a possibility. I, too, have looked at this legislation. It could be said that, within the current legislation, there are opportunities for the cabinet to bring specific issues to the attention of the services. When you take on the Intelligence and Security Services Act, you can see that it provides the opportunity to bring specific topics to the attention of the services, with an instruction from the Cabinet. So I think we should keep the legal route as simple as possible, but it must be very clear what we are looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u31	I have read the difference between the KLM's plea and the reaction of the cabinet. It is remarkable that the KLM itself says that it needs it very much to get more information from the cabinet. Should the cabinet give the same answers as the written answers this evening, is the PvdA open to looking, perhaps by means of a motion, at that legal anchoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u32	Once again, we are open to ensuring that it is and-and: the airlines assume their own responsibilities in this respect, because they have them, as is also laid down in international legislation, and the public authorities are doing something about it. Whether it requires a change of law or not is, as far as I am concerned, a separate question. If it is necessary to support the cabinet, I am, of course, open to it. Secondly, we want clarity on the international level. We want a better exchange of information between countries. My group believes that there are particular possibilities in this area at European level. It is precisely now that the Netherlands is President of the European Union this six months that we should play a leading role in improving the exchange of information between the Member States on airspace safety. EASA, the European Aviation Safety Agency, is the appropriate organisation for this purpose. Can the Secretary of State of I and M say how concrete steps are being taken during the Dutch Presidency to boost European cooperation in this area? To what extent are steps taken that actually lead to better sharing of relevant information? We would also like to see such initiatives taken further at global level. I would add that my assessment is that the handles we have are less robust than those at European level, but I would like to join with colleagues in asking questions about additional steps that can be taken at ICAO. Finally. The taking down of flight MH17 must not go unpunished. Strong conclusions must also be followed by firm consequences. This applies to those who have direct responsibility for firing the Buk missile, but also to those who have created the political context that has allowed this terrible disaster to take place. The PvdA expects the Cabinet to continue to make every effort to bring the perpetrators to justice as soon as possible. We therefore see with impatience, but without getting in the way of the specialists, forward to the next steps on the road to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u33	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u34	Before I give the Prime Minister the floor, let me just say this. I think it would be useful for the Prime Minister to give an insight into the way in which the answer is given. Then we can take that into account when determining when and when to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u35	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with that. The idea is that I will make a number of preliminary remarks myself, after which I will address the questions relating to the role of the intelligence and security services. The Minister for Security and Justice will then speak on the topics of next of kin, crisis management, investigation of the Security Research Council and criminal investigation. Afterwards, the Foreign Minister will answer questions about international efforts and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment will address the issue of radar data and all questions related to the role of ICAO and other international organisations. That is how we imagined it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u37	For my part, therefore, there are a number of preliminary remarks, resulting from the answer to questions raised about the role of the intelligence and security services.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u38	On the distribution: I have addressed a number of very specific questions to the Prime Minister about his role and about when he has been informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u39	I will answer one question, but the other questions really go to the rulers concerned. Otherwise, I am going to do everything, and then I have that discussion with Mr Omtzigt more often. I will answer the one question that Mr Omtzigt asked when I knew what the OVV knew.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u40	And his role in addressing the rulers when it was not the Foreign Minister. I would like those two questions answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u41	I don't remember the second question, but I'm sure it'll come back. Let me begin by thanking the Security Research Council for the report on the terrible disaster with the MH17. I would also like to thank the University of Twente, which has evaluated the crisis organisation. MH17 is a very significant event for the families of the victims. For our country and far beyond, the disaster with the MH17 is an ink black page in our history. For many people there is a life before and a life after this terrible disaster and for the rest of their lives there will continue to be referenced to the moment before and the moment after that disaster. It has been recalled by all the speakers, and I say it again: 298 completely innocent people, who have nothing to do with the conflict in the eastern part of Ukraine, have indeed died in this disaster. I say to the Chamber, but more importantly to the next of kin that my cabinet's commitment is unabated to do everything necessary in the aftermath of this disaster. Allow me to say that I and my colleagues admire the hundreds and hundreds of people from the emergency services, the police, the army, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the departments and our representation abroad who, in very difficult circumstances and under extremely heavy pressure from the very beginning and to this day, are committed to all that is needed in the aftermath of this disaster. The essence of a crisis is that, under great pressure of time, you often have to make big decisions with far too little information. We also learn to do so. We can always draw lessons for future cases, which I hope will not occur, although I fear that serious situations may continue to occur in the future. That lessons can be learned and that big decisions have to be made under enormous pressure of time and in a situation where you have to rely on too little information, that certainly also applies to the crisis with MH17. The first few days we immediately chose to set out a number of priorities. The first was the repatriation of our people. By our people, I mean all the passengers on the plane, not just the Dutch. I mean that everyone would know that their loved one was no longer alive and that the victims would be repatriated. It was also a priority one to clarify the identification of victims to the next of kin. We are also discussing this issue today as a matter of priority: the independent, international investigation into the consequences of the disaster. Priority three concerns the prosecution and trial of the perpetrators. We still support these choices and those three priorities. Making those kinds of choices does have consequences. Partly because of the complex geopolitical situation, we have chosen to be completely independent in research. We were, and are, of the opinion that it is the most appropriate to do so and to encourage cooperation in the investigation as much as possible. At the same time, it can maximise the acceptance of the results of the studies, both at home and abroad. That is the choice I am defending here, which I would make exactly the same way again and which will come back on a number of points, including in this debate. For example, when you will talk to the Minister of Security and Justice about what you can or can not do independently towards other countries when requesting radar and satellite images. If at any time we had interfered in the investigation of the OVV, or if we had now interfered in the investigation of the Public Prosecutor, other than at the request of the OVV and the Public Prosecutor, it would not be in keeping with the independence of the work. This would then play a huge role in those who have an interest in questioning the results of that research. We saw that in the first few months after the terrible disaster. There was then a discussion about why we did not talk to the separatists. As if we had some sort of principled policy in it. "Netherlands," that was the story back then, "never talk to separatists." I was willing to talk to the devil and his old nut, including any separatist I could have met, if that would have helped me. However, I am sure that if we had started talking directly to the separatists in those first weeks and months, that would have had consequences for Ukraine's cooperation, for example, in the investigation and for their contribution to the Joint Investigation Team. That is why we have always done so. In this particular area we have been extremely helped by our intermediaries, who have done important work there, so that we could eventually get everything we needed. "Why don't you talk to that?" was an example and this was the reason. I have repeated it over and over again, and I will continue to do so to this day. This will also come back to a number of points in this debate. For example, if we understood ourselves directly with other powers in terms of radar and satellite images, regardless of specific requests from the Public Prosecutor's Office or from the OVV, then we are interfering in the investigation. We then have an opinion on it and that is in the hands of the people who have an interest in being able to turn the investigation away as a partial one. Please, let's not do that. At the same time, let there be no misunderstanding: if the OVV or now the Public Prosecutor needs our help anywhere, we will be there immediately. We fought and fought for the victims and their families and for justice. There's, was and will never be done anything about it. It is precisely in this interest that we have chosen this position. On the subject of the OVV research, I would like to say that the Minister for Security and Justice goes into more detail in saying that it is our view that many of you have shared this opinion and have written a thorough and comprehensive report. The investigation was carried out in accordance with international ICAO standards. It is objective and international research and it is an impartial and independent investigation. It is an investigation that has received almost unanimous recognition at international level, and rightly so. The second priority of the cabinet was completed with this investigation. As I said, the first priority was the repatriation and identification of the victims. Of the 298 people killed in this disaster, 296 were finally identified. This is a difficult and difficult task which has forced a great deal of respect internationally and in which all the countries concerned have helped and cooperated enormously. At the same time, I would like to mention that despite these maximum efforts, it has not been possible to identify the last two victims. Unfortunately, the chances of this happening are very small. At the moment, we are working hard on priority three: the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators. As Mr Ten Broeke and others said, that is something other than the investigation into the facts. We now need to find out who was behind this and how we can bring these people to justice. We are now working on this and also on the development of the follow-up options, which the Minister for Security and Justice will be discussing in a moment. As you know, the Joint Investigation Team reported the state of play of the criminal investigation in a letter to the next of kin two weeks ago. Next week there will be an information meeting for the next of kin. Let me say something about this: it is difficult. The deadline for us to determine the precise involvement of perpetrators, identity and current whereabouts is simply not yet available from the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Joint Investigation Team. However, the JIT has informed the next of kin that the commitment is to complete the investigation as soon as possible and arrive at prosecution and trial, but let's be real. We all know that it has been difficult to indicate how long criminal proceedings are going to take and whether they can be successfully concluded. This is particularly true in this international and complex case. In this respect too, as a number of speakers have said, our patience and, in particular, the patience of the relatives is being put to the test. As difficult as that may be, that is in the interests of final trial. Following these introductory remarks, I would like to answer the questions on the role of the intelligence and security services. The first concerns the sharing of information with airlines. In the first term of the Chamber, it has already been stated that the possibility of information sharing by the intelligence and security services is, in itself, regulated by law in Section 3.3 of the Intelligence and Security Services Act. It concerns Articles 35, 36 and beyond. This is already being actively used. Where the services of ongoing investigations have concrete threat information against civil aviation, Dutch airlines shall be informed accordingly. The MH17 disaster was the subject of such consultations if appropriate. After the disaster with MH17, the existing consultations between the Dutch airlines and the Dutch government were intensified and made structural, including about flying over conflict zones. As far as we are concerned, this information sharing is absolutely not non-binding. This is seriously addressed, for example in connection with the attack on a Russian aircraft in Egypt in 2015. A lot of questions have been asked about this. With your permission, let me go into a little more detail on the improved structure of information sharing. A structural dialogue with the aviation sector on airspace safety over conflict areas was launched immediately after the terrible disaster with MH17. In these consultations, both the information sharing process and concrete information on threat are discussed. This consultation has now been held about ten times. If information on acute threats is available to the government, this consultation will be used to discuss this information with the airlines quickly and, above all, confidentially. I have just mentioned the example of the crash of the Russian aircraft in the Sinai on 31 October 2015. The Chamber was informed of this in a letter dated 11 November 2015. National consultations are also used to discuss the results of DG Home consultations. Secretary of State Dijksma will discuss this further later. This European consultation is important because for the first time, the Member States of Europe share their threat information on conflict areas in a European context. That is an important step forward. The Member States and the Commission shall discuss the threat information on the basis of the latest methodology for risk analysis, adapted following the crash with MH17. After that, a common threat image can also be formed. So much for sharing information with airlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u42	It is true that much has been said about this in the first term of the Chamber. This naturally had to do with the fact that we had an extensive hearing. In doing so, we have heard from both the people of the KLM and the people of the Association of Dutch Traffic Flyers that they are not yet entirely satisfied with that structure. They expect a more proactive attitude on the part of the government; let me put it this way. I would be happy if the Prime Minister would respond to those statements as well. Hopefully he's taken note of these statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u43	Yes, we have taken note of that, of course, because they were public conversations. This will also give us reason to re-understand with the airlines to look at these signals and to see whether the system of consultation currently in place can be further improved. So we take these signals seriously. That is my response to this remark by Mr Servaes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u44	I am still processing the answer, Mr President, because 'we take it seriously' is a somewhat general statement. The question is, of course, what has happened in this area over the past period? I assume they've shared what they share with us, even before with the government. What's the reaction to that? How did the Prime Minister respond to these requests? The key question is, of course, whether the government is willing to take action not only if it happens to find information that is important as a by-catch, but also if necessary proactively looking for information that the airlines need to make that proper assessment themselves. That's a pretty clear question. Is the government prepared to take that more proactive stance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u45	This brings us to another issue that was also mentioned in the first term, namely whether it should be included in the law to ensure aviation safety as the responsibility of the services. Several spokesmen have referred to this. Is that what Mr Servaes means by "more proactive"? I'm looking for that right now. What do we do now? If the services have information that is relevant, it will be proactively shared. In the past, only this type of information was gathered, but now there is also a structured consultation. I am not aware that the signals mentioned by the airlines in the hearing were also discussed at that table to that extent and with that urgency. I will look into that and, if necessary, return to it in the second term. In any case, I am not aware of such signals. We have, of course, heard what was said in that hearing. That is, of course, always a reason to see how, in consultation, you can improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u46	I'm trying to match this answer a little bit with what we've heard from KLM's top man. It did indeed refer to anchoring in the law of the intelligence service's obligation to inform the airlines. Can the Prime Minister respond to that? This was really about an anchoring in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u47	Yes, there are two discussions in this context about what one could anchor in the law. The first concerns the case where the security services encounter relevant information. You could include in the law the obligation for that information to be shared. I will respond to that in a moment. In addition, there is, of course, a much wider debate on whether aviation safety should be included in the law at all. I have good arguments not to want that. I also have arguments for not being in favour of us including in the law that information that has to be broken down should be shared, no matter what happens now. First of all, it is because at the moment it is the starting point that that information, when it appears, is shared with the airlines. At the same time, there is a very conscious reason not to include that obligation in the Intelligence and Security Services Act. That has to do with the fact that mandatory information sharing, because that is what you are talking about, could ultimately damage the effectiveness of the services when it comes to information that cannot be shared in that form at that time because of source protection, third party rule or other considerations. I think we should look for other roads if that's what we're looking for. But laying down the law will ultimately hinder the functioning of the service. That's the paradox. So I'd be against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u48	There are different methods or forms to be devised to ensure that this task is covered by the law, but that airlines are given that information by classification, coding or confidentiality by the intelligence services, precisely because we are now dealing with unsafe airspace that we still do not know about, but perhaps the intelligence services are. The fact that other airlines, such as the British and American ones, did not fly over East Ukraine, and we do show that those intelligence services did inform those airlines? Why should we not do that when it comes to such crucial information?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u49	That's not right. There were also companies from those countries that flew over Eastern Ukraine. Apart from that specific fact, my view would be for the reason I have just mentioned that the mandatory inclusion in the law is not sensible. If the concern is or the current practice is sufficiently anchored, we need to look for other ways of anchoring. An anchoring in the law seems really unwise to me because, however paradoxical that may sound, it may ultimately hinder the functioning of the service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u50	I took the law for a while. Indeed, under point 3.3, which I myself referred to, Article 36 states that there is a competence for the services to share processed data with persons or bodies "who concern them." So they could be airlines. That's what we're talking about here. The Prime Minister then explains that there is now a system in which ten consultations have taken place over the last two years in response to acute threat information. So that's about four or five times a year. For acute threat information, this may not be entirely reassuring. The Prime Minister himself gave the example of the Russian charter. At the same time it became known that there was also a British charter that had to do with a very different problem, namely the firing of a similar rocket by the Egyptian government. If we take that into account, shouldn't acute threat information be brought directly? How can we anchor that without changing the law? Surely further agreements need to be made for this and an intensification of consultations is not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u51	I'd like to go along with that. I think that is a very real request. If you anchor it in the law, I'm concerned about its counterproductive effect and its paradoxicality. Of course, there are other ways to anchor that. That's what we should be looking for together. That's what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u52	We too will, of course, try to further shape this search, because that is what the airlines like the KLM have told us. They also knew not the example of Egypt which I mentioned just now. My second point is that the Intelligence and Security Services Act always assumes that there must be an intention to harm the Dutch security interests, because that is what the services are looking at. That is what this heavy substance is used for. But what if that intention isn't there? I cannot ask the Prime Minister to speculate, but there are, of course, examples where that was imaginable. Then that information doesn't just show up. Then there may be a threat that is not perceived because there is no intention. But there is a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u53	In his first term, Mr Ten Broeke said something about how you could organise that, including this type of debate. As far as I'm concerned, that direction is passable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u54	I find the Prime Minister's attitude a little worrying. I see a lack of urgency in this particular problem. The Prime Minister says: we started discussions immediately after the disaster. No, that's not what happened. The Chamber had to adopt a motion to force the then Secretary of State to initiate that consultation. At the end of January there was a hearing in which, among other things, the Vereniging Nederlandse Verkeersvliegering (Vereniging Nederlandse Verkeersvliegers) said: we have concerns about this consultation; that does not work well. Now the Prime Minister says: perhaps we should take a look at that. It's March now. We could have looked at that by now. Now the Prime Minister says to his party colleague, Ten Broeke, that we should take a good look at this together. Then I say again: no, former Secretary of State Mansveld had just promised that this consultation would lead to recommendations on how that could be improved nationally, legally or not. Where are these recommendations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u55	Our view at the moment is that this system is working well. The structural consultation that arose after what happened immediately after the crash of the MH17 works well, not only as soon as certain relevant information appears. This has a more structural character and also comes together if there is no direct, concrete reason to do so. At the same time, I am aware of the opinion of the Chamber on this matter. It was also expressed here in the first term. In my view, a legal basis for this would have the paradoxical effect of restricting security services' functioning. Mr Ten Broeke made an interesting suggestion, which we must take seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u56	I really feel that we should draw the Prime Minister and his cabinet over some sort of imaginary line. I think that's weird. A year and a half after the disaster, I expected the cabinet itself to make proactive proposals to improve this national system, as proposed by a number of parties today. What proposals does the cabinet have on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u57	I've said it a few times. This consultation started immediately after the disaster. That consultation is working well. In it, everything that needs to be shared is shared. Nevertheless, on the part of the airline KLM and parts of the Chamber, there is a need to provide a more structural guarantee. Although this consultation is going well, we do not see that need. That has nothing to do with urgency. No, it's a matter of urgency that he thinks things are going well now. If things were not going well now, we would immediately agree that more should be done. However, part of the Chamber and part of the KLM has been requested for a more structural guarantee. I don't think that's something to go ahead of. That can only improve it further, so there is no objection at all. Only a legal guarantee of that can be unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u58	But does the Prime Minister actually say: yes, the services must have the capacity to look at the risks with civil aviation glasses and yes, that consultation must be structured and properly regulated, as long as it is not legally determined?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u59	The first element brought in by Mr Sjoerdsma is completely new and we have not been involved in the discussion so far. I agree with the second half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u60	I am in the same amazement as Mr Sjoerdsma. Nineteen months ago, there was no disaster; a plane was shot down. Those are also the words of the UN Security Council. It has therefore been considered for nineteen months that Ukraine should have closed down its airspace and that airlines should make better risk weighing. The data that eastern Ukraine was unsafe were known everywhere. Germany and France have taken action. They have drawn up a national blacklist: you can't fly over Syria, you can't fly over Iraq. For every airline it is forbidden to fly above the Sinai Desert. Another solution can be found, and if it is necessary, I am happy to do so. If it is still structural consultation where the precise allocation of responsibility when something goes wrong is again not clear, then we cannot know what has been discussed there, just as we are now. We must not know what has been discussed in advance. Then you didn't make the right decision, did you? My question to the Prime Minister is: when is the Dutch Government's proposal on exactly how this responsibility is allocated to the sharing of information? It is secret in nature, where the Prime Minister has a point, but needs to be shared in order to protect the safety of Dutch citizens and aircraft.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u61	Like I said a few times, there is. There is, and it works well. There is a need at the KLM and in parts of the Chamber to provide more structural assurance. There are concrete proposals on how to do that. That is not necessary for the cabinet, because it would indicate that it is not working properly. We agree to provide this structural guarantee if others consider it important. There is nothing against that, but I only advocate that this should not be done legally. Mr Omtzigt has everything he wants on this point, and that is right. Structural consultation started immediately after the terrible disaster with the MH17. It discusses both information sharing and concrete threat information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u62	In France and Germany steps have been taken which have made it clear when something is allowed and when something is not allowed. Moreover, these countries have opted for a great deal of openness in this regard. The Netherlands did not do that. In fact, on that ICAO website promoted by the Netherlands about unsafe flying, the Netherlands has not once provided an unsafe area. We do not now know what is being discussed, I understand that, but the airlines are worried and the passengers must not know where they are flying. When does the Dutch Government come up with a letter with precise proposals on how it is secured and how the legal responsibility lies when something should happen again in the future? Do we or do we not know if there has been a warning? That's something we had to learn from the MH17 after 19 months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u63	There is. That consultation started after the terrible disaster with the MH17. The only discussion we are having now is whether it is necessary to provide additional guarantees. The cabinet does not consider that necessary, but is not against it either. I merely advocate that this should not be done legally in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u64	I hear the Prime Minister saying that there is such a fine discussion now and that it is working very well; it really does not need to be improved. Can the Prime Minister guarantee us that if the same scenario as we had with the MH17 before the crash would repeat itself tomorrow, the government will tell the airlines via the services or directly that they should not fly over the country in question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u65	Of course, I can't do that, Mr De Roon is well aware of that. That is not possible, because this information should be available to the services. We now know from the investigation carried out by the Supervisory Commission on Information and Security Services, part of the entire OVV complex, that the services did not have that information. Then you can't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u66	The government had the information given to diplomats at the Kiev briefing. That was what sections of the government had at their disposal. My question is simply: if that scenario were to repeat itself tomorrow, can the Prime Minister guarantee us that all this information will be properly forwarded and that it will be reported to the KLM that it is dangerous to fly above the country in question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u67	The briefing on 14 July was the subject of a wide-ranging debate. What Mr De Roon says about this is not right. In addition, the intelligence and security services did not have the information on the security situation. This has been demonstrated by the CTIVD. I cannot guarantee that, and there are no guarantees about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u68	Mr. Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u69	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u70	Mr. De Roon?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u71	I still want to get on with it. On the day of that briefing, the government, our government agencies, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, knew that aircraft had been shot down over Ukraine, above a certain flight level. If you can shoot down planes above that flight level, you can also know where traffic planes fly, take down planes. All this was known, but that information was not shared with the world of civil aviation. That should have happened. Can the Prime Minister promise us that this information will be well shared from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u72	There were many countries present. That was not shared by any of these countries. Why didn't that happen? Because Mr De Roon does not give a fair presentation of the information shared on 14 July. That debate has been held here ten times. I'm not getting back to that now. This really has nothing to do with how we can better ensure that information that is or is not available from security services is made available to airlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u73	The focus on the ICAO website has actually been pointless. That is why I call upon the Prime Minister to carry out two legal tasks for the AIVD. Firstly, the active sharing of information with airlines. Secondly, analyse, interpret and assess the safety of the escape route. These two legal tasks should be assigned to the AIVD in our opinion. The Prime Minister also distinguishes these two tasks, but I would like to urge him once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u74	On that first point, I have just replied in detail that I am not an opponent. We do not ourselves see the need, but we are not going to stop it from further securing the sharing of information known to the services, with the aviation sector. If it does not happen legally, because that would ultimately hinder the functioning of the services. Mr Bontes' second point goes much further. This concerns the request for security services to be given a role in the field of aviation safety. That has far-reaching consequences. I would like to point out that we are not aware that there are intelligence and security services in Europe with such a task. This suggests that the Dutch government should have an independent information position that allows it to take responsibility for the risk of a civil aviation conflict on its own worldwide basis. It would be a huge expansion of services. For example, STIVD should maintain a current threat picture of all aviation defence units operating around the world near routes of Dutch airlines. In addition, the threat of human error is not limited to flight movements at high altitudes, but also occurs at the airports where Dutch companies operate. In order to identify such a threat, the services should therefore also have a detailed picture of all forces moving near airports, as well as their operational readiness, their doctrines, their level of professionalism and so on. It would be a colossal extension of the functions of the intelligence and security services. And again, this cabinet is not aware that there are intelligence and security services in Europe that have this extensive task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u75	It is clear that the capacity will cost the intelligence services. However, it is a question of human lives. It is about our passengers, who must be able to fly safely across certain countries. May I remind the Prime Minister that, in Ukraine, our information position, the intelligence services' position, was completely inadequate at the time of the attack on the MH17? The team was dismantled and there was no task assignment. That kind of gap, which has been created by austerity among other things, must be filled by giving these two legal tasks. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u76	That's a reaction I'd like to give. The international starting point for international aviation policy is that each treaty state is sovereign over its own airspace and that airlines themselves are responsible for their operations and the choice of their routes. The Dutch legislator is also in line with these principles. In its conclusions, the Research Council for Security has also followed these principles and does not recommend that these responsibilities be invested differently. The Dutch airlines are not in favour of this either. That is why we are looking for improvements in the line indicated by the OVV and to which Mrs Dijksma still refers: strengthening international rules on airspace management, dealing with the risks of crossing conflict areas and improving the exchange of information. Mr Bontes asks the government to give the government the power to ban Dutch airlines flying over certain conflict zones, but that would result in a huge expansion of our security services. According to our information, this is not the case anywhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u77	I still find this a very difficult point. We take it for granted that the Dutch government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, provides very concrete information about the security of countries, sometimes even about the security of cities. I know of cases where even the safety of certain districts in certain cities in certain countries is described, saying: stay away from them after that time. It's so concrete sometimes. I've often praised the Ministry for that. However, when it comes to air safety, we cannot provide information, not even on the main lines, which would allow the airlines to make a proper assessment. So isn't there a lot of running away from a responsibility that the Dutch government doesn't want to take because it has implications for the tasks of services and possibly also for the scope of services? However, information is crucial to ensure that airlines can make that decision in a responsible manner, as well as passengers can make a responsible decision to visit a particular city or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u78	In Europe, we do not know any intelligence and security services that have these tasks. The OVV and the airlines do not argue in favour of it. It takes a lot to organize this properly. This is different from a travel advice from the State Department. This goes much, much, much further. For a global assessment, you need much more than just the safety of the airspace at cruising altitude. You should also think about safety at and near the take-off and landing locations and flying above the sea. I just mentioned the example of what this would mean for the STUDY. We would then extend the scope of our services which are not covered anywhere in Europe, which is not the result of the opinion of the OVV and which is not wanted by the airlines. I don't think that's the right route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u79	Then we have to observe that a situation such as that that has occurred, where relevant services and organisations assume their responsibilities, but nevertheless leads to collective failure, can simply reappear. So the system is leaking. There is a safety breach when it comes to aviation safety. That could have dramatic consequences. I would ask the Prime Minister to think very carefully about whether the government can say that there is no place to fly, a flight ban, or an extension of the duties of the services so that the companies themselves can take that responsibility. Now the system is leaking and the leak remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u80	I think it would be much more sensible to follow the advice of the OVV on this point. The Council said: "View and strengthen international rules on airspace management and the management of risks associated with the overflight of conflict areas and improve the exchange of information on risks of overflight of conflict areas at various levels, international, European and, of course, national." We are committed to achieving this. That is the way to achieve this. But we should not be the only intelligence and security service throughout Europe to bring this task to us and then think that we have solved it. After all, even then you still don't have all the information, no matter how good you would do it. We must then develop some kind of super-secret service that is omnisciently active all over the world. That would be the only way. I think the advice of the Security Research Council indicates a sensible route. We're following them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u81	Mr. Omtzigt, you've just been here. Do you have any new facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u82	There are a lot of new facts. The legal basis was so poorly defined that the OVV felt obliged to seek advice as to whether that task existed at all. The Research Council asked for advice from the secret services supervisor, the CTIVD, where the question was whether the services had a legal function. We didn't even know it at the time of the MH17. That's how clear the law is right now. The government says it doesn't want to change this. The Prime Minister says: we do not see that in other countries the secret services publish that list. No, I didn't. In Germany and France, the ministries of infrastructure and foreign affairs do so. It's true those lists are incomplete. An airline will not be relieved of the obligation to look at it itself, just as a traveler who goes somewhere can say: hey, this place is not on the list of unsafe areas of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so I don't have to pay attention. Is there not a way in which the Dutch Government indicates, but not in a non-binding way, that certain areas are unsafe, as Germany and France do? France is important in this respect because of the cooperation between Air France and KLM. Germany and France publish lists of unsafe areas. It's very simple: no insurance company covers a plane that still flies over it. Those lists therefore act as a flight ban, even if they are not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u83	The answer is yes. That's what I've just appointed. The advice of the Security Research Council is also to ensure that cooperation in the exchange of information on risks related to the overflying of conflict areas is improved at all levels and to strengthen international rules on airspace management and on dealing with the risks of overflying those conflict areas. We are committed to that. That's the only way to get to a system as close as possible. Mr Omtzigt said it himself: even the system that some other countries have is not conclusive. In the end, this is the only way to get to the best possible functioning system, and not to create a superservice that gives the impression of being able to analyse conflict areas worldwide for the safety of overflights. That's not a good, passable road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u84	Then why is France and Germany able to do so? They do not have a perfect system, but within a few months after the MH17 they have rigged up a system whereby they even say open and transparent on their own government's website where you can't fly and why. Why is the Netherlands failing? Why does the Netherlands not even manage to provide the ICAO website with at least one area deemed unsafe? This means that we say that it should be shared internationally, but not do so. There are plenty of unsafe areas; in the meantime we are in agreement here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u85	What these countries are actually doing is that Mr Omtzigt describes very precisely what the OVV describes as the way forward: if this information is known to countries, you share it openly and transparently. Indeed, these countries make known what they are doing to other countries and to airlines, for example through the ICAO website. In this way, other airlines can take information into account in their assessment of whether or not to fly over the area concerned. So this is exactly what the OVV wants and what the cabinet is working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u86	The Prime Minister seems to me to be somewhat absurd about the solution we are proposing. He says you want to solve it perfectly and that leads to a Giga intelligence service. I don't think so at all. I believe that the majority of the Chamber says that we want to regulate safety as best we can and that we want to cover the risks as well as possible. To that end, a number of things can happen. The capacity of the intelligence services can be increased at this point so that they can look at the risks with the civil aviation glasses. The consultation, which the Prime Minister says is structural and is going well, can be much better. After all the Prime Minister's words, I still don't understand why the Prime Minister doesn't say that we can actually make it a step better without immediately making it absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u87	I have just said this in the debate I had with Mr Ten Broeke. This concerns the information that services have available, which you guarantee will be shared with all relevant players. The position of the cabinet is: since the terrible disaster with the MH17, the existing consultation is now going well, both structuralally and when there is concrete information. During the Chamber, but also from the airlines, there is a need to give more assurance. The cabinet is willing to think along with that. I merely advocate not doing so legally, because if you include in the law to make that type of information compulsory, it will ultimately prevent the effectiveness of the intelligence services, because they cannot always share all the information just like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u88	I don't want to judge it. I don't care if we do this legally, as long as we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u89	Then we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u90	I would like to say a few words about that. The Prime Minister says all the time that, according to him and the cabinet, the consultation is going well. I just got off the phone with two of the participants in the meeting. The core of their reaction is: "no structure," "we don't hear anything proactive" and "we only hear incidents, without good information." The Prime Minister and the Secretary of State must also know that the consultation is not going well. Especially after the hearing at the end of January, there must be a sense of urgency to take this proactively, but we are now pulling the Prime Minister's jacket: please, do something!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u91	In my view, we are approaching each other in the sense of: do not do it legally and find another means. I understand that Mr Sjoerdsma can live with that. Mr Ten Broeke outlined a way forward in his first term. If we follow them together, I think you have the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u92	Then let's try to really get closer. The Prime Minister is right about the distribution of responsibilities, but it is strange that he says that the government itself is satisfied with the way the consultations have been conducted so far. We have just heard a few quotes and we heard them in the hearing. Is the Prime Minister prepared not only to have that conversation with the airlines, but also to take concrete measures and to lay down these measures, perhaps not in the legal form, but at least in a solid pseudo-legal form? Because I think that's what we're all looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u93	Sure. Mr Ten Broeke referred to the form of a covenant for this purpose. I think that would be a good shape, sure. Thanks to the interruptions of the Chamber, I have answered all the questions about the role of the intelligence and security services. I have two more questions to answer before I politely ask the President to give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice. The first question is when I was aware that Ukraine's radar data were not available for the OVV study. This has become known to me at the publication of the research report of the OVV. Both the OVV and the D.A. are independent and independent, as I outlined in my introduction. We therefore have no role in both investigations, unless one of the parties asks us to. Finally, I will address the question of whether the cabinet is prepared to ask the state archivist for an inventory of all relevant MH17 documents. The departments themselves are responsible for archiving their documents. The Archive Act basically applies to everything. Nevertheless, there are indeed a lot of departments involved in the research of MH17. That is why I think Mr Omtzit's suggestion is sensible on this point. General Affairs will therefore engage with the state archivist to ensure that bundled preservation of all MH17 documents is ensured, so that they remain as accessible as possible in the future. So I'm happy to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u94	Thank you for that last commitment; in my second term I will make a few suggestions on what can be taken into account, but I very much appreciate that this is happening in this way. There were two other questions. The question was not only when it was clear that Ukraine had not made the radar data available, but also when it was clear that Russia had not made it available. Was that also on October 13th, as with Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u95	The answer is yes. It's about the same report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u96	Okay. Yeah, it's the same report, but I'm just asking. The second question concerns the interview report. There was a long interview from the University of Twente with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u97	That's what the Minister of Security and Justice comes back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u98	Yeah, but I'm just gonna ask the Prime Minister the question right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u99	No, we have that discussion every time. We have a division of roles. The Minister of Security and Justice will discuss the Twente investigation and the disclosure of those documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u100	Mr President, I would like to put the question directly to the Prime Minister. He is the only one of the rulers who are there now, who was also there at the time of the attack on the MH17.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u101	And I refer you to the Minister of Security and Justice's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u102	I'd just like to finish my question. Then the Prime Minister can indeed refer. I'm guessing all of that. We have asked: can we see these protocols in advance? We've had multiple affairs here, affairs where we've had to pull and push in connection with interview reports. This is a report of a discussion in which the Prime Minister was interviewed about his role in the first three months, because the government itself was allowed to draw up the protocol and the research questions. Is the Prime Minister prepared to simply say that that report and the reports of the other ministers are being accessed because they want to be accountable for the way in which they have acted? After a year and a half, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u103	I refer to my previous reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u104	Mr Omtzigt, I propose that the Minister of Security and Justice should reply. If you are not satisfied with the answer, you will have the opportunity to ask your question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u105	Did you find this answer, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u106	No, the Prime Minister is referring to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u107	But it's an interview with the Prime Minister. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister. It's not about an interview with the Minister of Security and Justice. We have had this discussion in the Chamber more often, including about Bitch Deals and all kinds of other things where interview reports should not be seen once when they are politically sensitive. Is the Prime Minister prepared, since he did not wish to explain to the Chamber but to a committee of inquiry how the first few months have been conducted, to make the report public? After all, we had asked for these protocols...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u108	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u109	...before the investigation began.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u110	In this question are three or four of Mr Omtzigt's unbelievable downside impressions, which I leave entirely on his behalf. I refer to the answer that the Minister for Security and Justice will give immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u111	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u112	The Prime Minister said a while ago in his speech: we fought and fought for the next of kin. That's beautiful in itself. How does the Prime Minister indicate that a Working Party on Truth Finding has been set up by the next of kin, precisely to see if the cover really goes off? How does the Prime Minister judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u113	Again there is another insinuation in the question, which I really distance myself from. I am of course the very first person to whom all attention goes to in emotion and direct involvement. The hardest hit are the next of kin. That's the lead. I have always read in the media the idea that, because of trade relations with Russia, the cosy contacts with Ukraine or because it wants to keep things secret, this cabinet is covering up matters relating to MH17 or putting them in deaf jars. However, that is total nonsense. I have just explained the reason why we do not interfere with the investigations of the D.A. and the OVV. If we did, we would ultimately damage the independence of these investigations and thus hinder their effectiveness. That's why we do it. I would have loved to have responded in the last two years to all these bullshit ideas that also personally respected me. However, I have only one goal and that is to give the people, the next of kin, the maximum chance of justice. That's why I'm holding back. But I've had enough of this crap. Mr President, I would ask you to give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u114	Can I ask another follow-up question, if you don't mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u115	I have the impression that we are repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u116	No, not at all. I have a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u117	Finally, Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u118	The Prime Minister could get angry. I'm sure it's all there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u119	Yeah, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u120	But I still have, I think, a pretty good question. Then why, for example, has such a Kiev briefing been kept secret? Why are passages blacked out? Why haven't interview reports been released?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u121	Oh! Oh, come on. Bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u122	The Prime Minister can get angry as he likes, but the fact remains that the next of kin and part of the Dutch people have the impression that all this is just being covered up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u123	You can do a hundred times here... Mr Zijlstra once said very nicely in a debate: you can throw a hand mud in clean water and then say that the water is cloudy. That's what Mr. Bontes is doing here. I'm not going to go into that any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u124	Mr Sjoerdsma, will you continue to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u125	No, not at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u126	A new point? I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u127	Apologies to the Prime Minister. I have one last question. I still have one last question. The personal involvement has been there from the beginning and now it shows again. We can only have respect and appreciation for that. I do have a question about how this personal commitment has been filled in when it comes to Russia. Last summer, Russia torpedoed a plan from the Netherlands, a UN tribunal. Since the publication of the OVV's research, we have only seen fog, propaganda and internet trolls from the Kremlin. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what he has done to Putin since then on these two issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u128	I have had a very long telephone conversation with the Russian President on several occasions in connection with the Security Council resolution. I tried to convince him of this route. It's obviously not been successful. In the end, Russia voted against, the only one in the Security Council, I think. As far as my information is concerned, there were no other permanent Members who voted against it. Russia then vetted that resolution. So my contacts with the Russian President have not been successful. I deeply regret that, because I found and still believe that the route of that tribunal, with a UN support, based on the July 2014 resolution, would be the best route to trial. We are now focusing on two possible variants of the prosecution. The Minister for Security and Justice will deal with this. Depending on how the research of the Joint Investigation Team develops, we will eventually have to make a choice as to what is best. Minister Van der Steur will go into this in such detail. But the preferred route has been blocked by Russia. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u129	And with the Prime Minister, I think this whole Chamber is doing that. Well, there's a follow-up question now. Has the Prime Minister, now that Russia has done so, given Russia, at least indirectly, informally, renounced the investigation of the OVV, tried in some way to obtain assurances from Russia that it will indeed cooperate in the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators, should that lead ultimately to people of Russian nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u130	If that's what it takes, I will. Of course. There's no doubt about that. The route that we now consider most sensible is the contact that the Foreign Minister has with Russia's Minister for Foreign Affairs on the request for legal aid. This contact with Mr Lavrov took place in February. The same contact has also taken place, and I must honestly say this with the US Secretary of State, Kerry. Perhaps Minister Koenders will say something about that. In general, this is about that legal aid application to do everything in its power to participate in the investigation of the Joint Investigation Team. If it helps at some point in our conversations, in our appraisals, if I contact the Russian President again, I will do so immediately. And when I run into him, we're not talking about anything else. We usually do that in German, because then we can do it without interpreters and you can talk directly to each other. Maybe I can close with the following. I already told you once. In Milan in 2014 I told him the case of the Kursk. The Netherlands was involved in this. I told him, you know better than anyone what it means to a country when people died in such a terrible disaster with that submarine. The Netherlands helped with the storage. That was a sacred duty for you as Russians, and rightly so. We helped to do that. This is exactly the same thing. That is why I am counting on exactly the same contribution now, in prosecuting and prosecuting the perpetrators of this terrible disaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u131	I now give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u132	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their contributions in the first term. First of all, let me join with the appreciation that the Prime Minister has expressed for all those people who have been working since July 2014, but to this day, to make everything that has happened in recent times possible and still make every day possible. Lately, of course, this has focused mainly on caring for the next of kin. The Prime Minister already outlined that there were three priorities on the basis of which the government formulated its policy. The first is the repatriation of the victims and their possessions and their identification. The second is the investigation into the situation, designed by the Research Council for Security. The third is the criminal investigation and, where possible, the prosecution. I'll check out those three elements. First of all, let me remind you of the way in which the Netherlands dealt with the arrival of the victims' remains; I heard a number of Members of Parliament express their appreciation for this. That's where the remains were identified. That was a very complicated task, but it is good to report to the Chamber that at the end of 2015 the NFI, the Netherlands Forensic Institute, identified the last remains that had returned to the Netherlands in October 2015, as well as remains that had not yet been identified. It was in many cases small remains, and unfortunately, as we know, no remains of the two unidentified victims. Once again, I would like to express my appreciation of the LTFO and the NFI for the hard work they have done under extremely difficult conditions. You know that not only of the two unidentified victims, but also of other remains, which have not yet been found, but also of a DNA profile, have a number of remains. On this subject, the LTFO has agreed with the NFI that in the future it will try to obtain a profile by means of new techniques. As the Prime Minister said, this is part of the attempt to manage to identify the two unidentified victims on the basis of the unidentified remains. But I say to the Prime Minister that there is very little chance of that, no matter how annoying that may be. In addition, I think it would be good if, in this debate, I would pay tribute to the efforts of the local population and the local organisations, who were able to make the best efforts at the time around the disaster and up to and including today. They have in the past repatriated the victims and their possessions and secured the wreckage for the OVV investigation. There are still appointments with the people on the ground. The existing and built-up infrastructure in the disaster area therefore remains in place. Agreements have been made with local authorities so that if, for example, new remains or possessions are found in the spring, they can come to the Netherlands as soon as possible. Then there's the investigation of the Security Research Council. A month ago, we had a very wide-ranging debate on the exact nature of the radar data. The questions have been repeated to a large extent in this debate. I think it would be good if we did not repeat this debate too much, because we now know the positions and the way things are going. I agree with the Prime Minister's appreciation for the OVV investigation. I also think it is very important that a number of Members of the Chamber have again expressed their appreciation for that investigation today. Asking questions, of course. That's what happened. The Research Council has answered this from its own responsibility. But this should not give the impression that the Dutch Parliament, the Dutch Government or anyone else has doubts about the quality of the research. Internationally, there has been much appreciation for this research. International experts, including those involved in the investigation, have unanimously endorsed its content. Of course, the Dutch Government has been reluctant and has facilitated completely independent and international research only on request. This also means that the Dutch Government is not accountable for the manner in which the OVV set up the investigation, because the Research Council has a completely independent position in it. That is, of course, different with regard to criminal investigations. The Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office also conducts independent research on behalf of the third priority: the detection and, where possible, prosecution of any offenders. We do this in good consultation with other countries in the so-called Joint Investigation Team. The Public Prosecutor's Office also conducts fully independent investigations. The Dutch Government assists the Public Prosecutor's Office where necessary, at the express request of the Public Prosecutor's Office. As long as the investigation of the Public Prosecutor's Office is not completed, restraint on the part of the cabinet is appropriate. This includes the fact that, as much as I would like to, I cannot make any statements on the content of the research. As I said in the debate on radar images, I am well aware that this requires a great deal of patience from people, especially the next of kin. That patience must be brought about, however difficult it may be, because in the future we will have the chance of successful prosecution as much as possible. However, the cabinet is well aware that a lot of the next of kin is being asked for in this respect. This restraint is not easy, not even for the government. However, the importance of the end result justifies this restraint. The Netherlands, together with the countries of the Joint Investigation Team, is studying the various possibilities of trial and prosecution. As the Prime Minister said, and as has already been stated in detail in the letter to the Chamber, there are two main traces on this point: firstly, national prosecution by one of the countries concerned, which may be more than one, and also trial in one of those countries, and secondly, prosecution and trial by an international tribunal in any form. That decision can only be taken in a sensible manner when the results of the criminal investigation are clear. These results are to a large extent decisive for the form of prosecution and trial. The starting point is therefore that, as soon as the state of the investigation permits a decision on the track to be followed, the cabinet will take a decision on this, taking into account, of course, the position of the next of kin, as was the case with the UN Tribunal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u133	I have an apparent contradiction. Perhaps the Minister can resolve that contradiction. Last summer, the cabinet had a follow-up strategy; that was the UN Tribunal. At that time, the criminal investigation had not been completed. The criminal investigation is still not a cliff, but now the cabinet says that we have to wait until the investigation is completed by choosing a strategy. How am I supposed to rhyme this with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u134	It was also made clear at that time that an international tribunal under the UN flag has a number of major advantages, but also a number of major disadvantages. One of the drawbacks is the enormous length of time needed to set up such a tribunal. For this reason, the cabinet, in a spirit of mutual agreement, felt that this should not be delayed in order to achieve the best possible result. This was then cancelled for the reasons outlined by the Prime Minister. We then had to choose the next best option. That next-best option should be determined by the results of the criminal investigation. If you know what you can achieve in terms of prosecution and trial, you can also assess how best to achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u135	Then the Minister will have to explain exactly what the difference is between the UN Tribunal and the Joint Tribunal, a sort of Lockerbie Tribunal, let me just put it this way, which is now on the table as a B option. Why, in one case, did it not have to wait for the outcome of a criminal investigation and, in the other case, is it said that this will have to be weighed first? A Lockerbie tribunal also takes a lot of time. I have been told that the papers for a UN tribunal were in principle already ready, I think that is a great achievement, but then you could say that the papers for a Lockerbie-like tribunal are already ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u136	At the moment when the UN Tribunal could not find its way through, the question was what would be the best solution. At that time, there were two options: either an international tribunal in any form, which can not, or not yet, take place under the UN flag, or trial and prosecution by one of the countries specifically concerned, in any form. In the present circumstances, we can only make this choice when we know what a certain state of the criminal investigation is. That does not necessarily have to be at the end of the investigation. Then I'll come to the crisis review. On this point, I would like to join with the Prime Minister in expressing my thanks and appreciation to all those who, after 17 July 2014, have made every effort to deal with the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u137	The Minister for Security and Justice rightly refers to the fact that we have talked about radar images here, but when we spoke about this last time, it was not known that the US was not even asked for radar images. Do I have to be with the Foreign Minister later to find out whether formal or informal contact has been made with the US, Russia or Ukraine, after 13 October, when the government was sure to ask for it because they had promised in the UN Security Council to give everything that would be asked to provide those radar images? Have you been asked to do that? If not, why didn't that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u138	This is a repetition of the debate we have had before and also a repetition of the questions that Mr Omtzigt has written to the government and to which answers have also been given. The answer is twofold. Given the answers to the questions put by the Chamber, I can of course only quote them here and have no other independent science of the European Parliament, the Research Council for Security itself has not asked for those data. What I do know is that it is also stated in Mr Omtzigt's reply that the Security Research Council, like the Public Prosecutor's Office, has had access to the data provided by the Americans through the Military Intelligence and Security Service. As far as the Public Prosecutor's Office is concerned, discussions are being held with the US authorities through STIVD on the extent to which such information can also be made available by means of official communications for the purposes of criminal investigations. So both the OVV and the Public Prosecutor have had access to the data provided by the Americans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u139	The Americans weren't even asked for radar data when the US Secretary of State literally said they saw the plane disappear off the radar. Then it seems extremely interesting to know why the Russians didn't ask why the Russians destroyed it and why the Ukrainians first said that the radars were all off because of maintenance and that after an expert in the Chamber said he had never seen such a maintenance schedule, they said that two had been shot. Hasn't that led the government to the idea that not everyone was fully cooperating? Or does the government think that these three countries have complied with all their promises in the UN Security Council by means of Resolution 2166, in all investigations and making all the information available, in the field of radar data?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u140	I will answer that in the same way that I gave in the previous debate and that was also given to the written questions. The Security Research Council has had access to that data from the Americans. We know through the Security Research Council the communications from the governments of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. There's a staff investigation going on from the state's attorney's office. The Public Prosecutor's Office also has access to the information made available by the Americans via the STUDY. Otherwise, in the previous debate, we have already agreed, confirmed and reconfirmed by both the Foreign Minister and myself and now by the Prime Minister, that if the Public Prosecutor considers it necessary to take steps from the government to support further requests for legal aid in the general sense what is already happening, or concretely, we will do so. This also applies to the possible declassification of the information provided by the US government via the STUDY.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u141	That was a long answer but not to the question. The question wasn't about the satellite images. It was about the radar data. The OVV has indicated: we would have liked to have the primary radar data. The written reply also shows that the OVV would not have been able to draw any other conclusion but would probably have been able to draw a more precise conclusion as to where that rocket was launched. The government's replies show that in the last ten years it has never occurred in an aviation accident in Europe that researchers did not have primary radar data. The Russians, the Americans and the Ukrainians did everything they could to know what was going on there. Have these three countries sufficiently cooperated in making radar data available for this investigation and has the government taken any further action towards these countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u142	Because the question is the same, the answer remains the same, namely that the Public Prosecutor's Office is now on. If the D.A. finds that because of the importance of the criminal investigation...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u143	That's not the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u144	That's the question. The question is now what the government can do to support the Public Miniserie in successfully detecting and prosecuting any of its perpetrators. The answer, as I have already given Mr Omtzigt several times last time, is that if the Public Prosecutor asks for assistance on this point, the Dutch Government will provide it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u145	Point of order. The question was about the OVV and not about the Public Prosecutor's Office. Up to three times there is talk about the other investigation, on which the Minister rightly states that he cannot say anything about it. That's right. We'll all be patient with that investigation from the D.A.'s office. However, this is now about the OVV research. Now it seems that it is said: as long as they were investigating we should not know, when we knew the investigation was closed and now we continue with the other investigation. My question is this. Is it true that these three countries that have not provided primary radar data to the OVV and thus have not fully complied with the international commitments they have made under Security Council Resolution 2166, working fully with the investigations and making available all the materials that have been requested?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u146	That is exactly the question you have just asked, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u147	Mr Omtzigt does say that it is a question that sees the investigation of the OVV, but he does not ask for the Research Council, he asks for a government opinion on whether or not countries have fulfilled their obligations. The Research Council sent replies to the Chamber on this aspect. I refer to those answers, and I think they are clear, also for Mr Omtzigt. The Research Council has given a clear answer to that and that is no longer up to me. The investigation board's report is there, which we shared with the Chamber last time. Everyone knows that. What is relevant now is how do we ensure that the Public Prosecutor gets the information it needs. My answer is: as soon as the Public Prosecutor asks, we will take action on this. As far as I am concerned, that is the relevant question in the context of the detection and, hopefully, prosecution of any of the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u148	Now that the minister was closing his block around the criminal justice process...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u149	I will come back to the individual questions, also on this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u150	I ask the question, and if the Minister comes back on his own, then so be it. I am very curious whether the Minister would like to comment on the possibility or impossibility of any involvement of the Russian Federation in the criminal justice process. When the Minister says, "I'll come to that," I'll wait for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u151	I will come to that, at least I would come to that, but I will answer the question now. That question has already been answered in writing, as it had been asked in a way before. In the context of the agreements that we are going to make in the future, no option is in any way excluded by the Dutch Government, not even a possible involvement of the Russian Federation. However, Mr Grashoff also knows how the Russian Federation works together. Several members have already paraphrased that. By the way, I have to say that legal aid has been requested by the Public Prosecutor's Office and that this has been answered. On the one hand, cooperation is taking place, but on the other hand, it is not excluded that the Russian Federation could play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u152	I am one of the people who, in their own contribution, gave quite clear qualifications of Russia's cooperation so far. All the more interesting is the question of whether the government still intends to continue to claim the cooperation of the Russian Federation and whether it has any ideas on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u153	This is the same answer I gave to Mr Omtzigt. The real issue now is how to deal with the criminal investigation. If the D.A. asks us to assist in that, we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u154	With apologies, but I'm going back to the phase in which the OVV was looking for information. We discussed this in the previous debate. I said in my first contribution that I am concerned with the conclusions of the OVV. They are clear: they had enough information to draw, support and hold on to conclusions, and yet it is important for us as a Chamber that we now, afterwards, also be able to judge what the Dutch government did during that period. The Minister said in the previous debate: I did not know until the OVV's report appeared that they did not have all the radar data of the Ukrainians. We have had the opportunity to apologise for the lengthy introduction, President-in-Office of the Council, to ask the OVV again. How exactly did that happen when that special envoy from the OVV moved to Kiev, at the end of March, early April last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u155	That's a very long introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u156	Yeah, I know, but it's a little specific. I think it's important that we get this straight. At the end of March, early April 2015, a delegation from the OVV went to Kiev to talk to Ukrainians about this. We asked the OVV: were you accompanied during that period by the Dutch government, were you debriefed at the embassy, did you inform the government in any other way and have any attempts been made? We have not actually received any answers from the OVV to these questions. I would like to hear from the Minister whether, during the period of the visit to Kiev, or between the visit to Kiev and the final report, there has been any consultation with the Dutch government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u157	It's actually a question to the Research Council. I will come back to this in the second term, because I do not want to give an answer to this question which may later prove to be incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u158	It concerns questions 5 to 8 on page 12 of the answers to the questions to the OVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u159	That helps. I see here the answer from the OVV. I shall come back to this in the second term and thank Mr Servaes for the hand-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u160	I'm going to go back to the questions about the investigation board's report that stuck. The question about the crucial radar images has not been sufficiently answered, but there are two more things. The air traffic controllers accompanying the MH17, both in Ukraine and Russia, have not been heard. Is this still gonna happen? Is that what the Research Council's gonna do? I understand from the documents that this is not the case, but perhaps it will change if I ask the Minister. Or is the D.A. gonna do that? There is also a difference in the report between what happened to the radars in Ukraine. Did they get shot or were they in maintenance? There are two different explanations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u161	I also believe that it is clear to Mr Bontes that the Research Council has issued a final report and is not taking any further action. This is the same report that I had drawn up in an earlier instance, and I also did so in the debate that preceded it specifically on radar and satellite data, which has been established internationally that this is an excellent report, which has made it very clear what the terrible disaster we are talking about today has been. The second question is whether the D.A. is going to talk to the air traffic controllers. I cannot make any announcements about this. It's up to the D.A. to decide who it's talking to. Of course, no announcements are made about this. It's an ongoing criminal investigation, and I can't answer that question. What is the third question asked by Mr Bontes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u162	The report says the systems were in maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u163	This is a question that was also asked in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u164	I suggest that you first answer the questions from the first term, otherwise questions will be repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u165	I'll get back to you on that. That question is noted. I had stayed in the evaluation of the crisis organisation by the WODC in collaboration with the researchers of the University of Twente. On this point, I agree with the Prime Minister's words. I would not only like to express my thanks and appreciation to all those who have worked very hard after 17 July 2014, but also to note that, as a government and as a crisis organisation, we have learned lessons from the disaster. We have, of course, started working on these lessons. As the Prime Minister said, a great deal has gone well, but not everything has gone well. What are the classes? I have sent a comprehensive letter to the Chamber on this matter on behalf of all my fellow Members. It is clear that the national crisis management organisation must and can be more flexible. We aim to create a maximum flexible crisis organisation that can act administratively and operationally in all situations. This process is currently being developed in close consultation with the ministries and other relevant partners in an adapted National Handbook on Crisis Decision-making. This will have to be ready by mid-year. In addition, cooperation in the event of an aircraft accident should be further improved. Everyone, both national, regional, local and interdepartmental, must know exactly what their role is. There can be no doubt about this in the future. This is also a result of the WODC's investigation, which concluded that in the first 48 hours there was uncertainty about the roles in a number of areas. There's gonna be one National Crisis Plan Aircraft Accidents. This plan will be drawn up with all relevant stakeholders and, as promised to the Chamber, will be ready by mid-2016. The Chamber will, of course, receive a copy of this. A very important point is that next of kin should be given more certainty about the fate of their loved ones. That happens on the basis of the passenger manifests. A verification team shall be set up to collect and verify information quickly and structured on the passenger list of flights to or from the Netherlands. In the event of aircraft accidents abroad, this team operates under the chairmanship of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and always under the coordination of the Ministerial Committee on Crisis Management, the Interdepartmental Committee on Crisis Management and the NCTV. When drawing up the National Crisis Plan, the Cabinet will consider whether it is possible to provide information to survivors at an early stage before there is certainty as to the accuracy of the complete passenger list. One of the critical points was: we waited too long for information if our loved ones were on board. The government takes this problem very seriously. The solution shall also include the question of the time limit within which it is feasible to officially inform survivors of the presence of their next of kin on an aircraft. So much for the crisis management organisation. The Chamber will be kept closely informed of this in the coming months. Mr Sjoerdsma asked for Russia's cooperation. I've just said a few things about it. Several requests for legal aid have been made, including to Russia. Russia has been requested to provide all available information to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Public Prosecutor's Office is currently investigating this and will continue the conversation with the Russian Federation. At the moment when the Public Prosecutor considers it desirable for the Dutch Government to take action, the government will do so. I have already said a few things about the strategy of persecution. The Prime Minister has already discussed in detail whether there should still be a special role for the intelligence services. Mr Sjoerdsma has asked to see whether there should be a special section, in line with the example of the Americans and the English, where a unit of civil aviation should assess all routes in the world, I say just as easily, on safety. The Cabinet considers that the current Dutch system is in itself appropriate with the improvements already indicated by the Prime Minister. Information is shared and consultations with airlines are conducted structurally. Such a unit would mean a huge change in the system of our laws and regulations and would require a huge adjustment of the capacity of a very large number of organisations, without being clear about the effectiveness of such a method. Therefore, the Dutch Government has preferred the recommendation of the Research Council to resolve this in an international and European context. The discussion has already been discussed. The same applies to the other aspects. Mr Omtzig asked about the Joint Investigation Team agreement. As Mr Omtzigt saw in the letter from the Public Prosecutor to the relatives who were also sent to the Chamber, the Joint Investigation Team Agreement has been extended until 7 October 2016. It will, of course, be extended if necessary. Like last time, the Joint Investigation Team agreement will not be revealed and will not therefore be submitted to the Chamber. Mr Omtzigt asked the Prime Minister whether the interviews with the directors could be shared confidentially with the Chamber. Mr Omtzigt has already put that question in writing. We have given a rather long answer to that. I have the whole answer here, but I do not think it is right for me to repeat it at all. The essence is that, as I indicated on February 22nd of this year, the information is owned by the research team of the University of Twente and the WODC. The WODC is an independent scientific institute. For all the interviews that have been conducted, a specific information protocol has been followed. Mr Omtzigt knows that, because I sent it to the Chamber in the form of working arrangements. It's agreed that these interviews are confidential. Mr Omtzigt asked for the registration of the ICCb and the MCCb. Mr Omtzigt also put this question in writing. I will briefly paraphrase the answer. Yes, a attendance record was kept, but from the first week after July 17, 2014, the attendance lists were missing. Since then more attention has been paid to attendance registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u166	I have two questions about this. May I conclude from the last reply that there has been full attendance at both the MCCb and the ICCb after the first week? The report of the University of Twente suggests that this is not the case. So I would like to hear a clear answer to that question, perhaps in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u167	Yeah, I'll give you that answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u168	So I'd like to know exactly if that attendance registration has taken place. If we do not know who is taking the decisions, it is also difficult to check what exactly happened afterwards. Those interview reports have now been drawn up with a protocol. We've asked to see that protocol before the investigation begins. That didn't work. That is why I asked the Ministers, and my question was therefore addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr Delors, to unilaterally refrain from keeping this secret. If the ministers say that this can be understood as necessary, then I would be delighted if this were to be done by the executives and ex- executives involved in this matter. I understand that access will be confidential, but this gives us the opportunity to exercise political control. It became clear from the answers that even in a parliamentary inquiry the Chamber would not be able to access those reports. I would appreciate it if the cabinet would indicate the conditions under which we can control and exercise our control over those crucial first three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u169	I understand the question. It has been dealt with in several forms recently in the Chamber. At that time, we basically gave the same answers. The Prime Minister said in one specific case: I have no objection to my report being made public specifically on this issue. However, he made it very clear at the time that this was a one-off issue for this particular point. There has been a second case, namely the Oosting II Committee. In doing so, the Chamber asked: do the directors wish to review or undertake prior to the investigation that the interview reports will be made public? The answer to this was in a letter to the Chamber and it was said that the individual directors who were asked as directors were willing to do so. Of course, that question was not asked with regard to the research carried out by the WODC. The WODC attaches particular importance to the fact that this information remains secret, for precisely the reason the Prime Minister expressed in the first debate. He said that this could create a situation in which other persons who provided confidential information for the investigation might feel called upon to provide that information. If we do this structuralally and consistently, it will mean that someone who cooperates in a confidential investigation will no longer be able to rely on the report of the conversation with him or her to remain confidential. That is why my answer to Mr Omtzigt's question is that I will not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u170	I understand that answer when it comes to other officials. We do not control those officials, we control the ministerial responsibility. That is why my question was also very specific to the current and former directors. He'll have to check the room. The derivatives do not need to check the Chamber. I therefore ask again whether the government is prepared to take this back to the government and to return to us in a week or two, or four, under what conditions the Chamber can have access to it. I understand that these reports will not be placed on the Internet as a whole. Should there first be a parliamentary survey for this inspection? Can it be confidential? Of course, I always think it's okay if parts can be made public, but I understand that there are limitations. We are talking here, for example, about deciding whether or not to send troops. Very sensitive decisions have been taken, and I even understand why they could have been taken. We want to be able to control those decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u171	I understand the question; that's what I just said. However, I must point out that Mr Omtzitz's new question and wording does not change the principle that this is a scientific study, an evaluation study on a crisis organisation. On the basis of scientific protocols, a public report has been produced by a scientific institute. That's what we're talking about right now. That report is also the basis for the debate with the Chamber. The government attaches great importance to not participating in inflation by ex post disclosure of confidential documents to researchers. We have had a discussion on the "pre-" issue and it has also been resolved within the framework of the Oosting Committee. We really shouldn't get into it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u172	The Chamber, in the person of myself, had asked to receive those protocols in advance. That was also promised, but that promise was not fulfilled. I would have liked to have had this discussion before the investigation was held, because I get it. But will the government acknowledge that we have asked that question and we are now faced with the very uncomfortable truth that there has been a major investigation into the government's actions in the first three months and that Members of Parliament cannot see what the directors have said there, which is basically undesirable for democratic control? How does the government intend to solve this in this case? The government can take that back in its bosom and report on how this case can be dealt with in a month's time, because it would mean that everything would have to be redone if this Chamber ever decided on a further investigation. You can't do that until after a lawsuit has taken place. I am not saying that it should be there now, but I would ask the Minister to study it and to put it back to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u173	I myself, as Mr Omtzigt well knows, have been part of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on behalf of the Chamber. My experience is that parliamentary committees of inquiry simply invite the directors concerned to talk. The Chamber always has that freedom and that possibility. Mr Omtzigt is right that, as part of a lot of questions, he has also asked about the protocols. In the letter with which I sent the protocols to the Chamber, I indicated that that request had gone unreasonably. Mr Omtzigt has received a letter on this subject. But it doesn't change the fact that we're talking here about a crisis assessment report from a scientific research institute with a proper protocol containing that confidentiality. The government believes that we do not find ourselves on a sliding scale in this area where every investigation is constantly asking for such information to be disclosed, other than as we have done in the specific case of the Oosting Committee in relation to incumbent directors. Mr Omtzigt also asked why Ukraine is still on the Joint Investigation Team. It is good that we realise that Ukraine is the primary country involved in the criminal investigation under international jurisdiction rules. It is the country where the crime took place and where much of the evidence is or has been found. The Cabinet understands from the Public Prosecutor's Office that cooperation within the Joint Investigation Team is going very well. The form of prosecution and trial is the subject of international consultations. Ukraine is also involved as a Joint Investigation Team partner. Then I come to Mr Omtzigt's question about the talks between the government and the University of Twente on making documents available. These talks between the University of Twente and the WODC on the independence of the research took place in March and April 2015. This led to the Protocol of 25 April 2015 set out in Annex D to the final report. In the context of the criminal investigation, Mr Voordewind asked whether the Joint Investigation Team would now investigate additional forensic material to determine the exact firing location. In the letter to the next of kin, the Public Prosecutor said a few words about this. I would like to refer to Mr Voordewind. He understands that, of course, I cannot provide any other information about the criminal investigation and the way in which it takes place. I must leave the answer to the reference to the letter to the next of kin received by the Chamber. Mr Grashoff asked why the next of kin were not officially informed of the deaths of their loved ones. I've already dealt with that in a way. That message came in the form of the so-called death certificate. It couldn't be delivered until the victims were identified. It is, of course, inconceivablely annoying and regrettable that the study shows that a third of the next of kin would have wanted an official statement that their family members were on the plane much earlier. As I said, action is now being taken to see whether we can make a similar statement earlier. Very shortly after the disaster, all the next of kin were visited by the so-called family detectives. At that time, this communication was made by the public authorities but not by means of a document. They're working on it. In doing so, I am convinced that I have answered all the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u174	Mr Sjoerdsma, has there been a question left?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u175	No, there was no question left, but I would like to move on to one of the issues raised by the Minister, namely his qualification of the idea of creating a kind of civil aviation unit. Analogly to the Prime Minister, he outlined that as something that should monitor all air routes around the world, with which we would create a huge intelligence service. That does not entirely reflect what we have proposed. It concerns, in particular, the viewing of existing information through aviation goggles and the identification of gaps in such information. For that risk analysis you need special expertise and capacity. That is what I was trying to do with that proposal. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u176	This is a similar proposal to that which has been discussed extensively with the Prime Minister, namely the question: are we going to undertake a kind of information obligation in the Netherlands with regard to a lot of countries in the world to look at aviation safety in all kinds of specific areas? It is good that we should also listen to what the Secretary of State will say about this in the framework of ICAO and all the steps that will be taken or have already been taken to improve the provision of information at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u177	I have one more question about the possible trial. Several options are going around: a national tribunal or international trial with the partners of the team in which we are in, as that UN tribunal is not at risk of getting off the ground. But these are all the lesser options compared to the UN tribunal, which the international community has called for. The Russians indicated at the time that it was not appropriate to support the resolution. If the state's attorney's report is there, will the minister see any chance of putting pressure on the Russians to get the UN tribunal off the ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u178	As I said in Mr Grashoff's speech, there is no option in itself, but the Russian Federation should take a different view. Perhaps the Foreign Minister could say a few things about that. Unlike me, it has more or less regular contact with the Russian Federation. There is no option in itself, but there has been no agreement on this tribunal in the Security Council. That is why alternatives are chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u179	Perhaps the Foreign Minister will be able to comment on this later, but I can remember the Russians saying at that time that it was not appropriate to vote in favour of the resolution. That is possible so another hook.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u180	I'll leave that assessment to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u181	Madam President. I too would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their contributions. A lot of questions have been answered. I will confine myself as much as possible to a number of questions relating to the role of the Foreign Minister. Thank you for the great commitment of the people at the Public Prosecutor's Office and the OVV, and of the diplomats. There has been cooperation with a large number of countries. On the basis of these contacts, the possibility of moving forward towards trial is created. As I have just said, quite a lot has happened in the last ten months since the last extensive debate here in the Chamber. I will not repeat everything; the Prime Minister has already dealt with it. We went to the UN Security Council to get support for a tribunal; you know how that ended. We have done so internationally, and that means that there was enormous support for Resolution 2166. There was a veto from only Russia. Meanwhile, as the Prime Minister and colleague Van der Steur have explained, the prosecution is working with the necessary speed on the criminal investigation. The role of the Foreign Minister, of our Ministry, in all this is firstly to actively maintain the international support for MH17 and to follow up Resolution 2166. Secondly, to encourage individual countries to continue to participate in the various tracks, facilitating us to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thirdly, the coordination of international cooperation aimed at developing possible mechanisms for prosecution. The Minister for Security and Justice has just spoken about this. Perhaps it would be good to deal with a few issues relating to the transfer of the investigation. Cooperation with Ukraine was still requested. As you know, following the adoption of Resolution 2166..... we discussed this last month in the debate.............................................................................................................................................. I shall come back to that in a moment to answer the questions relating to cooperation with the Russian Federation. I intend to do the same at my Ukrainian counterpart at the next opportunity. Perhaps it is important to say once again that the responsibility for investigating the disaster has been formally transferred to the Netherlands on a proposal from Ukraine itself. The Ukrainian authorities were responsible for conducting the independent investigation on the basis of ICAO rules, and Ukraine has given us the opportunity to take over the lead of the investigation. The reason was the high number of Dutch victims and the experience and knowledge available in the Netherlands. The cabinet would also like to say here today that Ukraine is grateful for this step. Since then, Ukraine has also cooperated fully in the conduct of this investigation. The cabinet attaches great importance to a thorough and independent investigation and has always worked internationally for this purpose. It is important to say that the OVV report gives the relatives and all those who have been compassionate around the world clarity about what happened to the MH17. We hope that this will help in itself in the processing process. There will always be international parties that have an interest in questioning the impact of the crash. They do this very well, so to speak. I hope that we do not allow ourselves to be overly influenced by this and keep in mind that there is a clear report which provides a clear picture of what happened to the flight and excludes alternative scenarios. The cabinet immediately presented the report to the UN Security Council on 13 October. That's what I was asked for, and yes, we did. The publication of the report achieved an important part of the UN Security Council Resolution 2166, namely paragraph 3. I quote: "supports efforts to establish a full, thick and independent international investigation." I think you can say that the report has been received positively worldwide, with the exception of the Russian Federation. Several countries have issued statements welcoming the report, stressing its independence, transparency and thorough implementation. This is not insignificant, because international recognition and recognition are crucial to the next steps we are taking. This does not come about automatically, that is precisely because we have preserved the independence of the OVV and have always taken a principled line in it. This has led to this appreciation in the United Nations, the European Union and in other countries. You also know that ICAO issued a statement the same day stating that the report had been drawn up in accordance with the rules of the airlines. The European Council welcomes it, and so I could continue. It is a very important international political statement. Then there are a number of points concerning the Russian Federation. Of course, I have also taken note of the criticism from Russia of the OVV report. The Netherlands does not agree with this criticism, nor with other countries concerned. I regret that Russia continues to persist in its unfounded criticism of the report. I would like to say that again here today. I also regret that the parties in Russia, including the Russian Aviation Authority and the State-owned company Almaz-Antej, apparently felt it necessary to disqualify the final report before its content was known. I am all the more surprised at the attitude of the Russian authorities, because the OVV has worked well with the Russian experts involved in the investigation on a large number of points. The OVV has also offered Russia every opportunity to contribute to the research, to provide material, to express views and so on. At the same time, of course, we are aware that Russian criticism does not come as a surprise. It happens more often that Russia has a different position within the international community. See, for example, the position it took on the proposal before the Tribunal. However, we will always be prepared to speak, even if we disagree. That is important, also because the Chamber rightly calls on me to do so. The cabinet continues to call on Russia to respect the international, independent and final OVV report and to fully cooperate in the criminal investigation. That is what I have always advocated in my contacts with the Russian Government. I reiterated this, partly in response to the requests made by Mr Sjoerdsma and others, in the discussion I had with Minister Lavrov in February. The various points have been raised. In that conversation, I not only highlighted the importance of implementing UN Security Resolution 2166, which Russia was naturally committed to, but also drew attention to the outstanding requests for legal aid and the letter from the next of kin to President Putin. The Russian response to this was that the investigation should not focus on the justification of one version of the facts. Our answer to this is that both the OVV and the D.A.'s research is completely independent and professional and that it focuses on both finding out the actual cause and excluding alternative theories. We have seen that the OVV has gone very far in this and has skilfully refuted all alternative scenarios, including those put forward by Russia. Russia itself approved UN Security Council Resolution 2166 and subsequently confirmed its support for it several times. The Netherlands expects Russia to fulfil these obligations. I can assure the Chamber that I do not miss an opportunity to remind Russia of this. The suggestion that the cabinet would not insist on cooperation with Russia, because it fears that Russia will not cooperate with the prosecution, is therefore far from my point of view. After all, the independent criminal investigation is the basis for the prosecution and trial of the perpetrators. However, the independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Joint Investigation Team also means that the cabinet, as Minister Van der Steur has just indicated, only intervenes in the criminal investigation itself at the time the prosecution asks for it. We're not gonna change that. In this context, let me stress once again the following: for the international support and credibility of the Netherlands, it is of the utmost importance that the various investigations take place and take place completely independently and without interference from the government. We've always done that as a government. I would like to draw attention to the great international importance, the importance of persecution and its opportunities in this context. This requires due care and confidentiality. I don't think I need to go into the different options and the upcoming meetings anymore. Minister Van der Steur has already dealt with this. There is good cooperation between the five JIT countries. It's really invested in the field of law and the Public Prosecutor's Office. These countries work well together and meet in Kuala Lumpur. That is done very accurately and regularly. All information is shared and then the right choice is made to bring the people responsible for this terrible attack to justice. I can also be brief about crisis coordination and passenger data. Mr Van der Steur also said the most important thing. That's what we're looking at, and that's what the Chamber will be informed about. It is also about the important role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When is the State Department's move, primary or secondary? This depends on where an attack takes place and how the Netherlands is involved. How could we improve our handling of passenger data even better? Accuracy and speed sometimes compete with each other, but of course improvements must always be sought in terms of how families can be informed quickly and responsibly. As far as the memo on 14 July is concerned, with all due respect, I do not have so much to add to what has been said in previous debates on this subject. At the request of the OVV, these data were sent directly in connection with contacts with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the discussions we had here in the week of 5 January. At the request of the OVV, all other communications between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Dutch Embassy in Kiev were subsequently made available between 1 March 2014 and 31 August 2014. In fact, there was no evidence that information would have been withheld. I say this explicitly here, because sometimes there is a bit of a hint that it would have been kept secret and that the Chamber would not have been informed about these matters. You know this is not the case. The answers to the questions set out exactly what took place on 14 July. Then there was all the openness on that point. Minister Van der Steur spoke about this: we expect the crisis structure to be ready by mid-2016. The National Crisis Plan Aircraft Accidents will describe in broad terms the national principles and cooperation arrangements in the joint approach to air accidents in the interior and aircraft accidents abroad with Dutch victims. A question has been asked about my predecessor's speech at the United Nations. This subject has been discussed before. In the first days after the disaster, the image was very diffuse, as the Chamber knows. The more time passed, the better was the image we got of the good intentions and the appropriate actions of the people who were there the first hours after the disaster. That does not alter the fact that there was enough and often contradictory coverage to assume that not everyone who walked around the disaster site had good intentions. I think that my predecessor's comments to the Security Council should be seen in that light.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u182	The report of the University of Twente states on several points that on 21 July 2014 there will be a clear picture of the proper handling of the material surpluses. That's also being recoupled. On the evening of July 21, we're talking about the US, and that famous speech is taking place. Was Minister Timmermans informed at the time that SES had handled it properly? People of the Dutch LFTO who were on the spot have noticed this. Or hasn't that been communicated to Minister Timmermans and his surroundings? If not, has it been checked why that didn't happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u183	The then Foreign Minister, my predecessor Frans Timmermans, gave a presentation in New York of the information known to him on 21 July 2014. At that time, there was not yet a complete picture of the working methods of the local aid workers because the mission itself could not have looked at the remains at that time. As the Cabinet reported to the Chamber on 24 July 2014, there were concerns about on-site repatriation despite the gradually improved cooperation of separatists and the efforts of local residents and emergency services. The cabinet then wrote to the Chamber that valuable time had been lost because experts or observers in the first days did not have sufficient access to the disaster area or were sent away by armed groups. From the footage after the crash it became clear that the crash site was not closed. I think the Chamber should see my predecessor's statements against that background. As Mr Timmermans himself pointed out, he wanted to use his speech in New York to explain how the Netherlands was experiencing the events at that time. I think this has been important, too. He did that in his own words. According to his own words, he has done as well as possible to his best ability as his heart, feeling, mind and information gave him. When in the following days in Charkov the remains could be examined further by experts, it was found that the remains according to the standards in force in Ukraine and under the circumstances had been professionally treated by local aid workers. After his trip to New York, my predecessor made that clear in Charkov. He expressed great thanks to the emergency services and volunteers involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u184	It is right that this thank you has been expressed, because these people had nothing to do with the conflict. The people of the SES were not from one side or the other. They have already done enough hard work in a war in which thousands of other victims have been killed. However, I have a very precise question. The report of the University of Twente states that the Dutch members of the LTFO were able to see the first bodies personally on 21 July and found that they were professionally handled by the SES. So there was no longer only a mixed image, but for the first time there was quite clear information that this had happened very neatly and that this could be seen by Dutch people on the spot. Has that information reached Minister Timmermans before he made his speech in the UN Security Council, in which he made some pretty spicy statements based on the image that lived before? Or did the observation that was made at the time not reach Minister Timmermans before his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u185	Reality is always a little bit more complicated than information someone reaches or doesn't. On 21 July there was indeed a first inspection in the afternoon of the remains in the train cars in Torez. The Head of Mission indeed ruled in the presence of armed separatists and the media that the bodies were stored under correct conditions. So that was a first impression he had. Moreover, the ruling concerned the storage of the material surpluses and not the way in which they were collected in the field. That is a much more complicated picture, about which the Ministry was not clear until 22 July, because when the train arrived in safe area. It was only after that that the first examination of the remains was possible. On 23 July at 11.00 hours, the first aircraft with 40 cases with victims left for Eindhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u186	The first days after the attack, I found the settlement on the ground and the repatriation terrible to see. Separatists ran through our victims. They will undoubtedly have contributed to the eventual repatriation, but I still wonder why Minister Timmermans did not travel to Moscow to say that we are going to take care of our victims on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u187	That is, of course, a consideration that the Foreign Minister makes at such a time. Priority was given to obtaining international support for the Dutch commitment to the Security Council, which also includes Russia. I think there's been a proper consideration made by my predecessor. It was essential to get that resolution through as soon as possible. This has also been proven and the resolution is still of great importance in enforcing the cooperation of the countries concerned. In the first days there was also, of course, direct telephone contact with Russia at the highest level. The Prime Minister has just spoken about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u188	The Prime Minister says we would have negotiated with the devil and his old motherfucker if that were necessary. Minister Timmermans has not traveled to Moscow. I think that's such a crucial moment. I can't explain that, not even with the story that it's done over the phone. Then you go there and you say to Putin: we have no bad intentions in Eastern Ukraine, but we come to take care of our people, with soldiers if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u189	I also refer to the Prime Minister's reply. He spoke very clearly about his talks with President Putin. I am now Minister of Foreign Affairs and I really think it will help if the Prime Minister tackles that directly at the highest level, while at the same time ensuring that there is support in the UN Security Council, including Russia, to do whatever you ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u190	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u191	I have finished answering my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u192	Mr. Chairman. I think it is right to focus today on the recommendations on the future in the OVV report. Many Members of Parliament have rightly spoken about this: how can we further improve the international system of responsibilities to ensure safety in civil aviation? In this respect, the OVV has commissioned several parties: international organisations, including ICAO and IATA, worldwide to the national authorities, i.e. to all states and also to airlines. The core of it is: if there is information that needs to be shared, you do so. Together with all these efforts, we must ensure that we really do so where we can have an impact on improving safety. In response to the report, the Cabinet informed us that we are adopting these recommendations. So we do not only take the recommendations seriously; we must also make maximum efforts to achieve them. That's what my department's been working on since the beginning. I must say that, of course, we are also dependent on others. ICAO alone has 191 members. As we know, aviation is an international mode of transport. So you're gonna have to make a deal with each other in that regard. That is why we are also trying to use the EU and our capacity to act as President to move as much together as possible from the EU, for example towards ICAO, and I will deal with this later on in response to a question from Mr Servaes. We can also do a number of other things ourselves, at national and European level. I should like to point out the line of my answer to the questions. First of all, let me say something about what has been done in the ICAO context, including by the Netherlands. I will of course also address the questions about the website and about the information that the Netherlands itself contributes to this. I would also like to say something about what we are doing at European level. Then there are a few other issues that have to do with suggestions from different groups to get even sharper on the wind. That is what I am in favour of; we can talk about it for a long time or a short time, but I think we should take up all the good and effective ideas. I shall therefore begin with what we have done internationally, including in the ICAO context. Shortly after the disaster, a resolution was adopted at the initiative of the Netherlands stressing the need to comply with international rules. These are rules prohibiting acts of violence aimed at improving the safety of civil aviation and ensuring that it is complied with. ICAO, in cooperation with the aviation sector, set up a task force to fly over conflict zones immediately after the MH17 disaster. The Netherlands has always shown itself to be very active in this field. We have also helped to come up with a work programme, which has also been supported by the ICAO Council. This work programme is already in place in the Chamber, because it has been shared with her. In short, many actions will have to be taken in the area of conflict zones. It concerns the responsibility of sovereign states for the safety of their own airspace. It concerns, for example, risk assessments to be carried out by States and airlines. I shall return to that in reply to Mr Ten Broeke's questions. It is also about the exchange of information on conflict areas. One of the examples is the website I will talk about in a moment. In February 2015, the flight MH17 disaster was one of the main topics of the three-yearly ICAO High-Level Safety Conference. My predecessor then addressed the meeting of the 191 States of the Treaty. It has called for the work of ICAO in this area to be pursued vigorously. For example, the Netherlands has ensured that the OVV could also explain its report in the council. This is important because many of the recommendations made by the OVV include all the Member States participating in ICAO. We have also always called for attention to be paid to the further development of the work programme. ICAO has also received a number of direct recommendations from the OVV. During the hearing in the Chamber, as well as directly to the OVV, they indicated how they would be dealt with. The core is that ICAO has said that some of the recommendations have been included in the work programme that has already been adopted. We will probably get a progress report from ICAO before the summer with a substantive examination of all the points contained in the work programme. Then we can very well keep our finger on the wrist and see if it's moving fast enough. The Netherlands does not have a seat in the council itself. This means that the Netherlands is actively approaching European states which do have a seat. In addition, the Netherlands approaches the countries involved in the MH17 in order, for example, to continue to exert political pressure in this area. The Netherlands also participates in various working groups and panels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u193	The Netherlands therefore explained the investigation in the ICAO Council. The Netherlands did this as a treaty state and with that it was not the OVV, but the Dutch government. Or was it the O.V.V. after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u194	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, My predecessor, in general terms, has been able to address ICAO in order to say: let us, in a general sense, step up our efforts to improve civil aviation safety, and there is a great deal to be done. In addition, the Netherlands has made it possible for the OVV itself to provide an explanation of its report. That is very good, because my colleagues and the Chamber have rightly indicated that it is a valuable report. This cannot be carried out everywhere, because it is of great importance to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u195	Has there been any mention in the ICAO Council where, I presume, a representation of the Dutch Government is present, of the fact that there were no primary radar images and that the report simply states that Russia destroyed those images against ICAO rules? Have any conclusions been drawn in the ICAO Council on that part of the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u196	No, not to my knowledge. I will go into the issue of the retention obligation for radar data in a moment. We have noted in a previous debate that it is not really possible for any country to hide behind the fact that it does not have that data for any reason. In this context, I would like to raise my answer to a question from Mr Ten Broeke. He asked whether the Netherlands has argued internationally that radar data should always be retained at any time when a disaster occurs, even if there is only contact with an aircraft that may not even be in its own airspace. The answer to that question is yes. It is well known that the Netherlands is in the most far-reaching position in this area, because it thinks that we all need to know that there should no longer be any reason to hide behind it that you do not have data. In today's international regulations, we discussed this with each other in the previous debate, and there is simply too much confusion. That's gotta be a lot sharper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u197	I commend the government for wanting to resolve that in the future in this way. But the OVV is very clear in its report. The OVV is of the opinion that Russia was obliged to store and supply radar data because Russia had not made reservations under ICAO rules. In the eyes of the OVV, ICAO rules were clear. Furthermore, there was the commitment of Russia and the UN Security Council to deliver everything requested, regardless of whether it was covered by ICAO rules. Such a report will then be discussed in the presence of the Dutch Government in the ICAO Council. Is there any discussion with Russia and the other countries as to whether Russia has fulfilled its obligations under ICAO rules to provide radar data and not to delete it? Or hasn't that been a subject of discussion at all in the discussion of the OVV report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u198	I was not there myself, but I have just said that the position of the Dutch Government is very clear. We say that there should be no further misunderstanding in the future as to exactly what the retention obligation for radar data entails. At the moment, this international regulation can leave that unclear. That doesn't matter what you think is moral, what should be. We are in complete agreement on that. There's no misunderstanding about that. But in order to close that escape route to the no longer keeping of radar data, it is therefore essential that the annex be adapted in that area. Out of my mind, that's Annex 11. Let me see if that's true. That's what the Netherlands is advocating. I say to Mr Ten Broeke: we are indeed advocating the most far-reaching form of retention, not just the retention of radar data at the time when an aircraft has, as it were, already entered your airspace, but also at the moment when the aircraft is, so to speak, already in your view. By the way, I think it is important to say that the Netherlands is not in the council itself. We've tried all kinds of ways to exert our influence. We'll keep doing that. That's what we should do. But we're not part of the council. It is also more difficult in that sense to discuss everything there at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u199	Something has happened again in this debate, but perhaps it is because I am unclear. My question wasn't about the future. On this point, I share the position of the Dutch Government, which wants to clarify the rules. My question was as follows. There is a report by the OVV with a very hard paragraph on the fact that Russia should have made this available in the eyes of the OVV. Will that paragraph be discussed in the ICAO Council in which Russia sits? Does the Netherlands take that initiative? Or has that not been discussed at all and is therefore not mentioned in any international forum that Russia is destroying its primary radar data and is nowhere being asked whether that is right or not? Those are images where you can see where the rocket came from, where you can see if there were any other military planes without a transponder and where you can see the debris. Has that been discussed and has the Netherlands failed to do so? Or did the Netherlands bring that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u200	Again, it starts with the fact that the Netherlands is not a member of the council. That's crucial here, I think. As far as I know, that hasn't been discussed. What we made possible, what we considered to be very important, was that the OVV was given the opportunity to present its report in full detail with all the conclusions within ICAO. That is important, because that is where we can, of course, take the space to strengthen all these recommendations. That is also necessary, I think. We are now trying, towards the future, to prevent it from ever happening again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u201	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u202	I come to the work programme. I just explained what's in there. I also explained that the OVV could explain the report in the ICAO Council. We expect a progress report before the summer. For example, we are trying to put forward proposals through a country like Switzerland to better anchor the responsibility of airlines to carry out risk analyses on safe flying over conflict areas in the ICAO Convention. The Netherlands itself submitted proposals in the so-called security panel on the sharing of relevant information between states related to airspace safety over conflict areas. The Netherlands has provided input for the website. For example, we point out the need to publish the information more quickly. It has also been stressed that international organisations, such as IATA, should be able to place information on the website. I think it is good to answer some of the questions that have been asked. We are now working towards an assembly in September. For this purpose, the Netherlands will present a so-called working paper, in which we want to make further recommendations to improve the responsibility for civil aviation safety with concrete actions. I think that in the context of transparency and the possibility for the Chamber to think about it, it is good if we send the first draft of the working paper to the Chamber at the time we have it. In this way it can make an assessment. It is important to note that we will seek as much support for this within Europe as possible. I think it is necessary to use our Presidency to this end. So that's what we're doing. Then the website. Directly after the MH17 crash, ICAO set up a task force to fly over conflict zones. One of the proposals that emerged from this was the launch of a website containing information on conflict zones. That proposal has been accepted. That website indeed acts as a pilot. Mr Voordewind said that it is actually in its infancy; he is right. The Netherlands has responded to what is now in place and has called for faster availability of information and space for other organisations to place information, such as IATA and EASA. Very recently, a progress report has been presented to the Council on Member States' responses to, inter alia, the functioning of the website. We expect more discussion on this later this spring. This should lead to further improvements of the website. Mr Van Bommel asked what we thought. We think it is a good initiative in itself. IATA also argued that during the hearing in the Chamber, but he is right when he says that it can be done better; that is just the case. If one country provides information on another country's airspace, ICAO shall first request comments from the country concerned before publication. That is not illogical, but even an emergency procedure takes a few days. The Netherlands has said that this reaction time should be much shorter. That's really important to make it effective. The Netherlands, as I have just said, also considers it important that organisations other than sovereign states should be able to place information. Several members have asked whether the Netherlands itself has not yet provided information and whether this should not be done. The Netherlands has not yet posted information on the ICAO website because the Dutch government did not yet have or has at its disposal unique, concrete threat information that presents risks to flight safety, i.e. information that only we have. If, for example, the Dutch government receives non-public information from its own source indicating an acute and concrete threat to flight over conflict areas and that information is not known to other countries, then the starting point is of course that I and M will send this information or a derivative thereof to ICAO on behalf of the Dutch government to place on the ICAO website. We will really do that when we have that information. That seems right to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u203	I understand that this is still in its infancy. It has to grow. However, I understand that only ten countries have provided information and that the information available is not very crucial information. My question was therefore what incentive the cabinet could give to get more relevant information on that website and to allow more countries to participate. This is now happening on a voluntary basis. What incentive could we introduce to strengthen that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u204	I would like to use the answer to a question from Mr Ten Broeke to satisfy Mr Voordewind. I don't know if that's gonna work, but I'm just gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u205	We're curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u206	In fact, Mr Ten Broeke is proposing that we move towards the certification of airlines. He also believes that we should be able to impose sanctions. I believe that this is a broad shared feeling, not just in the Chamber and society. We recognize that feeling, too. Having a safety management system, a so-called Safety Management System, is part of an airline's flight certificate. The Netherlands has submitted to ICAO the proposal to make it explicitly clear that the implementation of a risk analysis by air carriers for flying over conflict areas should be part of the safety management system. We're gonna set this up for this autumn's Assembly. In addition, the European Union organises assessments with airlines, assessing whether or not safety standards are met. Having an adequate safety management system is part of those assessments. These safety management systems are also subject to national audits, including by ourselves. If audits show that safety management systems do not comply, an inspection may require corrective measures or, for example, suspend or withdraw the licence of an air carrier. There is therefore a risk that a negative outcome will result in a European blacklist. There are therefore already, in fact, the possibilities of sanctions for non-serious work on a safety management system. There is already a black list of companies and almost even states. The question is how we can tighten things up further. I think this should be possible. For this, the Netherlands must take the initiative and we have already begun to do so. This should further boost the incentive to share information and strengthen what you can do as a state and as an airline. That, too, seems to me to be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u207	I thought Mr Ten Broeke asked a question about safety management systems. My question was specifically about the website and about providing incentives for Member States to continue feeding the website. I am pleased that the Secretary of State wishes to satisfy me, but I do not see the link with Mr Ten Broeke's question. I think feeding that website is a different issue from the one Mr Ten Broeke mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u208	Yeah, but it has to do with each other. The information is important for companies and individual states, but you also have the sanctions that follow if, for example, you do not comply with the obligations that one has. We have asked ICAO about this website what incentives are envisaged. This will always be difficult, because ultimately the airlines themselves are responsible for the routes they choose and the sovereign states themselves are responsible for assessing how safe their airspace is. So it is a limited possibility that we have, but we will work creatively to find those incentives. Columbus' egg hasn't been found yet. It is a matter of increasing the pressure on each of these issues, being sharper and making everyone do even better what they have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u209	The idea of certification also came from the airlines themselves, at least those airlines that do make these efforts and therefore not only make a commercial assessment but also the safety weighting that we consider so important here. The Secretary of State mentioned negative incentives, but there are, of course, also positive incentives. When it comes to slot distributions or terminal positions or the whole package negotiated with airlines, it can of course be part of the offer that can be made to airlines. As far as I'm concerned, there's two sides to it. One is the government, or more specifically Schiphol in the Netherlands, and the other is the clarity for consumers, passengers. As far as I am concerned, both elements should be made possible in such certification, which can ultimately only be regulated through ICAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u210	I think the suggestion made by Mr Ten Broeke is a good one. I think we've already started on our own with the idea he's sketching. Then let's see how we can move that forward. I'm in. What we can do, we have to do. I'm also in favour of where he says you shouldn't just look at potential disincentives. There are. You can be blacklisted, and sometimes you have to be blacklisted. Sometimes the stick is more important than the root. But that you can also think about the root, I agree with Mr Ten Broeke. Mr Sjoerdsma has put forward four proposals and one of them has not yet been answered, namely his first proposal, the disclosure of air routes by airlines as far as possible. More and more airlines provide their passengers with insight into how they want to fly and what areas they want to fly. KLM, for example, does so via an interactive map on its own website, on which, with a delay of ten minutes, the location of the device can be tracked. One also has the ambition to show not only the photo of the moment but also a static card showing in advance which routes one intends to fly. Of course, this always depends on weather conditions. The core is what the main routes are. By the way, it's not just about what the KLM does. Mr Sjoerdsma's question was broader, namely how we can ensure that airlines share that information in general. In fact, Recommendation 10 of the OVV asks the airlines associated with IATA to make agreements on how to publish information on routes of conflict in a transparent manner. We are also in contact with IATA right now to discuss how we can further elaborate on this. So the Netherlands is also active on this issue to ensure that that part of the recommendation of the OVV is followed. I believe, with Mr Sjoerdsma, that it is very crucial that this transparency is achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u211	I have another question about the penultimate point, the ICAO website, the NOTAMs that are being published and the information that is available everywhere. When you talk to pilots about how to take that information, they indicate that they only have very limited time to do so. Apart from what information is contained in those NOTAMs, often there is no explanation as to why certain flight restrictions have been imposed, which makes it already difficult to interpret.... is the time they have to take that information and then do something with it, very often too short. How does the Secretary of State look at the problem of how to fly at the very last moment in the cockpit, but on the basis of incomplete information because the pilot does not have enough time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u212	This is partly the responsibility of the airline and how it relates to its own people. I'm familiar with the discussion. I know, and I think it has also emerged from the hearing in this Chamber that the kites themselves indicate that they want a better information position. This is difficult because, in part, the airlines have that information position and it is also up to them to share that information with the people who work for them in a good and correct way. That is not a responsibility that we can assume in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u213	I really want to be careful not to put that in the hands of the Secretary of State. There are differences of opinion, but at least there are consultations between the public authorities and civil aviation about how we deal with these issues. I would argue that the Secretary of State, even if it is not about that, should bring it into that discussion as a concern that lives. Perhaps she could ask the airlines how they deal with it and how they can improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u214	I'm willing to do that on my own. I heard that, of course, as did Mr Sjoerdsma in that hearing. It is not our responsibility, but I think it is justified to put it on the table, so we will. As the Prime Minister has already made a commitment to the Chamber to provide the further consultation with an even more solid structure, such a subject could be very well suited to the discussion of questions such as whether we are doing this right or whether the airlines can even better function in it vis-à-vis their own citizens. I'm willing to put that on the table, so I'll tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u215	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u216	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. We use the European Presidency to do two things. Firstly, we want to further strengthen our position vis-à-vis ICAO from Europe. This concerns in particular the elaboration of the recommendations of the OVV. We want to ensure that they can become a common European input for the Assembly this autumn. The Netherlands is also committed to strengthening the role of EASA, which is the European Aviation Safety Agency, in collecting and disseminating information on conflict areas. By the end of 2014, an EASA High-Level Group on conflict areas was established. It also makes recommendations on how we can improve the way to share information within Europe. The Netherlands plays an active role in that high-level group. A final concept of this group's report has now been finalised and is now being presented to the European Commission. It is, of course, up to the Commission to decide whether and in what way it intends to discuss the proposals. Let me put it this way: the Netherlands will play an active role in this and we will be very happy to raise this issue during our presidency. We will do everything we can to enable us to have that discussion during our presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u217	"Doing everything about it" sounds good, of course. That sounds like a general commitment to the Secretary of State. It has, with the councils that are planned during that presidency, but with an x number of moments to really hit it. I am not entirely at home in the exact number of councils that take place in the area of I and M, but does she think of a specific council? Maybe she's thinking of an informal council. As a host country, as a presence, you often have additional opportunities to put specific issues on the agenda, so that real concrete agreements are made at the political level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u218	Yes, that will be the Transport Council in June as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u219	That's good. Then we have a specific date. It is customary for the Chamber to have an annotated agenda for such a Council. In view of the importance which the Chamber attaches to the subject, I would ask the Secretary of State to devote perhaps this time a separate note or a separate letter to this particular subject so that the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment can discuss this subject extensively with the Secretary of State prior to that Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u220	Sure. And I'll also make sure your room gets the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u221	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u222	Mr. Chairman. That was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u223	Unless I'm wrong, there's one question left. This is a commitment made by the predecessor of this Secretary of State. In the previous debate, she said not one, not two, but three times that she would consult with civil aviation and come back to it. She said that the OVV study is her input and that she will come up with new output, with recommendations. I wonder where those recommendations are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u224	I had it checked out, too. Sometimes you have to do that if you weren't present at a debate yourself. I understand that Minister Opstelten, also on behalf of my predecessor, said that the recommendations in the OVV report will be taken up. The Chamber has tabled a motion which has been classified as'support policy' and I do not know whether it has finally been put to the vote, in which it has been asked to further structure the consultations between airlines and security services. This should be done under the guidance of the security services, in which my department is involved. The motion has been tabled in response to actions that the cabinet had already put in place, and this has been carried out further. In 2013, consultations were often occasional. The Prime Minister explained that sometime in the past period and in response to the MH17 disaster, that consultation was more structured. There is further discussion as to whether and how more structure is possible. We have now found that we are open to further suggestions, but that this consultation has already been arranged. If necessary, based on acute threat information, it will always be called together more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u225	I would suggest to the Secretary of State that we read the Acts of that debate again and come back to it in the second term. I quote a part so that it is clear what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u226	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u227	Your predecessor said: as a group, we shall be referring to the consultation that has been set up on the basis of my motion, which you have just mentioned, to examine the options and alternatives we see in order to improve things. The results of this club will only come if we can include the recommendations and conclusions of the OVV. In the next block she says: I said that this analysis comes after we get together with the group, which is now coming together, and the OVV put everything together. Finally, she says: this is without prejudice to my view that we are speaking with the aviation industry group and that the outcome of the OVV study should be our input. It does say that in that consultation it will take the OVV investigation as input and then, together with the whole civil aviation sector, come forward with its own recommendations. I firmly believe that this commitment is being kept.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u228	I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u229	Mr. Bontes, is there a question that hasn't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u230	Yes, by the Minister of Security and Justice. I only have a very short term and he'd come back to it. It's about what happened to the radar systems. Were these in maintenance, or were they destroyed? The OVV and the government of Ukraine have different views on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u231	The Minister for Security and Justice has already been here, but if this is the only question, I would ask him to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u232	I've taken note of that difference. On the one hand, there is the statement in the report of the OVV and on the other a subsequent communication from the Ukrainian Government. The Dutch Government does not have the opportunity to draw another conclusion. I note with Mr Bontes that there are two different readings and that the Research Council has included the reading he considers correct in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u233	It would be nice if we knew what happened. What's going on with those radar systems? Were they destroyed or were they under maintenance? That is a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u234	Mr Bontes will agree with me that, on balance, it does not matter what is causing radar data not to be available. I agree with him that it would be nice if we could get that resolved. However, it doesn't matter for the outcome. I shall return to the debate I had with Mr Bontes. The Public Prosecutor's Office is investigating the possible detection and prosecution of possible offenders. Of course, the question of why the data cannot be made available does not, of course, arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u235	Thank you. Let's move on to the second term. Mr Sjoerdsma, are you in a position to do so, or do you need a short suspension until you collect all the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u236	If we could suspend for a minute or five, that would be very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u237	Fine, then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u238	We have arrived at the second term of the Chamber. In it, the spokesmen have two minutes' speaking time, including the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u239	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the answers in the first term. I would also like to begin by expressing, in particular, a word of thanks for the commitment to Russia outlined by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Especially in view of the difficult geopolitical game, I appreciate that they are constantly raising this issue at a high level and intrusive. I think that is also very important, given Putin's attitude so far. There were two priorities for my group in this debate today, namely persecution and safe flight routes. We've had frustrating news about the prosecution. The Prime Minister himself also mentioned frustrating news that the discovery of the identity and whereabouts of suspects and the request for extradition are likely to be delayed for a long time. The D.A. can't clarify how much longer this is gonna take. I would like to ask Minister Van der Steur what plan B is a priori preferred: national trial or the mixed tribunal. I come on the flight routes and learning lessons from the past. I did not entirely agree with the cabinet on this point in this debate. On some points, I missed the sense of urgency and the willingness of the cabinet to do something on its own. However, I also saw the willingness to finally listen openly to suggestions from the Chamber. I thought that was valuable. I hope, therefore, that the motions tabled by the Chamber today will be heard. Mr Servaes will table a motion on structural consultation and the structuring of consultations between civil aviation and the Dutch authorities, a motion which I wholeheartedly support. I believe that this consultation is extremely important and that the airlines are asking for it. I myself will table a motion to ensure that the intelligence services also have sufficient resources and resources to implement this cooperation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that civil aviation requires more information on the risks of flying over conflict areas on the part of the Dutch authorities;]] [[Whereas, by way of a motion, the Government has been requested to agree with the Dutch airlines on the implementation of the intensified sharing of information on airspace safety and flight over conflict areas;]] [[Whereas these agreements may be laid down in a covenant;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the intelligence and security services, as well as the NCTV, have the means and means necessary to implement the Covenant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Servaes, Mr Van Bommel, Mr Grashoff, Mr Voordewind and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u240	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, the House of Representatives controls the government. This is difficult in an ongoing criminal investigation, especially at a time when prosecution is lengthy and politically difficult, but there is room for that. As far as flight routes are concerned, I agree with what some of my colleagues have said. After a year and a half, this is the first debate with the Prime Minister on MH17. I myself had expected a slightly more extensive exposé on the issues that have taken place over the last year and a half and the choices that the government has made to do certain things and not do certain things. On the OVV report, the Chamber remained silent as long as the investigation was conducted. Now that it has been completed, however, the Chamber is no longer allowed to ask why it happened. My group is surprised that if the Netherlands and the OVV explain the report in the ICAO Council, Russia does not mention the deletion of primary radar data at all. I thought that was the forum before that. My group had further requested that the interview protocols for the other research and the WODC report be obtained before the investigation took place. The Chamber would now be sitting on a sliding scale if it could read what the Dutch ministers have said? That is not a sliding scale, but the core task of the House of Representatives. I would like to hear an answer to that. Russia and certainly Ukraine and the US are friendly nations. I would like to hear from the government how, perhaps in all kindness, it will once again raise the question of why these radar data, which could provide so much information, are not provided spontaneously. However, I was satisfied with the commitment to commission the National Archivist. I shall record the request in a motion so that it is clear what we mean. If the government says she's running her, it's fine. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that it is important that all research material on the MH17 is well and carefully preserved and managed;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the National Archivist to set up a separate archive and an index of MH17 material;]] [[Invites the Government to make available to the National Archivist all available MH17 material, including e-mails, attendance records and logbooks of both committees, as well as diplomatic memos;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that OVV and WODC do the same,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u241	Madam President. I, too, appreciate the work of services, local, national and international, and certainly also the work of the Security Research Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I had not said that in the first period, but I want to have said that explicitly in this debate. The criminal route has now entered. We will have to wait patiently and hope that this will produce sufficient results for successful prosecution and trial. For my party today, therefore, the focus was on flying over conflict zones. The international system to minimise risks can never be completely waterproof, but it cannot be a colander. Now it is true that national governments can say that it is safe when it is not. Air carriers can take risky routes for cost reasons and intelligence services can keep relevant information to themselves because they intend to protect their own way of working or their own position. There are other risks. The SP supports all proposals that lead to the availability or availability of good information to airlines, so that airlines can take their decision on a particular route in a responsible manner. But at the end of the day, the government must also be prepared to intervene if there is reason to do so. This means that, as far as my group is concerned, we must be able to impose a flight ban or restrictions. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to the Chicago Convention, the Netherlands has the power to impose a ban or restrictions on the use of foreign airspace by Dutch airlines;]] [[Whereas some other countries already make use of this possibility;]] [[calls on the Government, in the future, to consider using the power to impose a ban or restrictions on the use of foreign airspace by Dutch airlines if risk information gives rise to such a restriction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Bommel, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Voordewind, Mr Grashoff and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u242	Mr. Chairman. I forgot to mention that I also spoke on behalf of the SGP in the first term. They apologize for not being able to attend. I would like to thank the ministers and the Prime Minister for answering the questions of the Christian Union. For us the focus was on the task, such as the OVV report which has become obsolete. Of course, the focus now is on finding out who did this. The second central point in the OVV report is that lessons must be learned for the future. In this respect, we have left too much fog on radar images. I understand the political sensitivities, but we must avoid all appearances of concealing information. I continue to urge the cabinet to find out even those last radar images, both in Ukraine and Russia as well as in the United States. I had a motion on the sharing of information from the security services with the airlines in the Netherlands, but I understand that Mr Servaes has a similar motion. I co-signed it. That prevents a lot of paperwork. I wholeheartedly support the plea of the Chamber, which I understand is a majority in favour of securing the exchange of information between the security services and the airlines. I hope the cabinet is gonna take that seriously. Finally, I come to the trial of the perpetrators. My group would be very sorry if we had to take that up as a Member State ourselves. That would have too little international authority to try people who undoubtedly have to come from abroad. In any case, I would like to give it to the Cabinet to do everything in its power to see whether we can still come to a UN tribunal. That's gonna be really hard. The Russians have indicated that they do not see much of it before. If we could manage such a tribunal, its international authority would greatly help to find out who did it. I wish the cabinet a great deal of wisdom and strength in order to achieve that from the Russians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u243	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for its reply. In September 2014, I spoke of an attack. The Prime Minister then said: the bottom stone must be above. Today he explains what that means to him and the cabinet, namely that they do everything within their ability to get the bottom of the stone, but also leave everything that brings this goal further away. It's just that combination that makes it difficult. It's hard to control things, but sometimes it's hard to suppress the tendency to get in the way of someone. Repatriation and identification are completed except for two victims. The commissioning investigation is complete. Now comes the important question of guilt. That might be the hardest part, the heaviest hoist to get that bottom stone up. Many people, including some relatives, have the impression that the cabinet is trying to remain neutral and even passive in an exaggerated way. Time will tell. Today I would like to say that we are concluding phase two with a report which is highly appreciated in the world. There is strong support for the recommendations in the Chamber. Now comes the third and the most difficult step: justice. Mr Omtzigt is quite right to say that it was not a disaster but multiple murder, perhaps unintentionally but at least with perpetrators. No matter how long it takes, no matter how difficult and complicated it may be, those offenders have to go to jail. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are doing everything that brings this goal closer and we are leaving everything that brings it further away. This means that we must continue to give the JIT maximum cooperation. That is the team of legal professionals led by the Dutch Public Prosecutor to whom we must and can entrust this great task. If we're serious about getting the perpetrators behind bars, we're gonna have to leave things behind. We can't force evidence. This does not serve the criminal process, does not serve the next of kin and does not serve justice. Finally, the VVD considers it important that we follow the recommendations of the OVV. They must be guaranteed as widely as possible in the Chamber. That is why my group supports Mr Sjoerdsma's motion to increase the capacity of intelligence services. My group also supports Mr Servaes' motion to ensure with a covenant that this is enshrined in the Intelligence and Security Services Act. I myself have another motion to ensure that airlines take that safety seriously and are rewarded for it, and that those who do not suffer from it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas airlines make their own assessment of flying over conflict zones;]] [[Whereas this primary responsibility of air carriers should not be affected or shifted;]] [[Considering that it is not always clear how air carriers will come to their consideration;]] [[Whereas Annex 19 to the Chicago Convention lays down rules on civil aviation safety;]] [[Calls on the Government to make efforts to ensure that all air carriers have a certified safety management system, which clearly sets out the choices an air carrier makes in respect of routes over dangerous areas, e.g. by setting this out in annex 19 to the Chicago Convention;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of imposing certain sanctions on air carriers which do not have a certified safety management system mentioned above,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Servaes, Mr Voordewind, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Bommel, Mr Bontes, Mr Grashoff and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u244	Mr. Chairman. I will always fight for complete openness, even if I do not make friends with it, even if the Prime Minister gets angry. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet classified the minutes of the Ministerial Council of 23 July 2014 and 27 July 2014 as state secret;]] [[noting that the reports of the interviews with the directors remain secret;]] [[whereas full openness should be given;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the publication of these minutes and reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that air carriers, such as the KLM, had no information on the danger over Eastern Ukraine;]] [[noting that the Dutch intelligence position at the time of the attack on the MH17 was insufficient;]] [[Whereas the sharing of information by public authorities with airlines should be improved;]] [[calls on the Government, our intelligence and security services to provide a legal task to investigate the safety of air routes, and to inform air carriers thereof;]] [[calls on the Government to provide these services with the necessary resources,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-76]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u245	I share Mr Bontes' concern that the ministerial minutes of 23 and 27 July were not made available to the researchers of the University of Twente, while they were promised access to all relevant documents. Can Mr Bontes explain why he chooses to have ministerial minutes which should have been read by researchers, but which generally remain secret, made public in their entirety? That's two steps further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u246	Because it is precisely those first days after the attack that are of such crucial importance. What happened? Why didn't we get our own victims back? I want to find out and not get a clear answer, nor what the role of Minister Timmermans has been in those days. I just want to know. The next of kin are entitled to that. Why did our victims lie there for a few days? Why were they initially repatriated by unorganised groups? I think that is of national importance. It's about our victims, and I really want to know right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u247	If that is the intention, not only should the minutes of the Council of Ministers be made public, but also all the minutes of the ministerial committee around them. It sometimes met several times a day. Then why is Mr Bontes not asking for a reopening or an additional investigation on that point? I understand that point can really be figured out. We can do that instead of the disclosure of ministerial council documents. Pieces of the miner's council have never actually been made public. Maybe that's something to consider about voting. Then we can see what we can support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u248	It is indeed a rarity, but it is also a very special situation. I would prefer to have a parliamentary survey started by now. Only, I know I don't have the support for that in the House of Representatives yet. So that will be a next step. That is why I am now taking this step to get the documents from the Council of Ministers. But I share Mr Omtzig's suggestion that an enlargement could be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u249	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has a directing role in the cabinet. This means that he is responsible for coordination and coordination. However, in the period from 14 July to 17 July 2014, that went awesomely wrong, because on 14 July a Ukrainian plane was shot down and Ukraine's National Security and Defence Council issued a media statement stating that it had to have been done by a more powerful weapon than a MANPAD. That information was shared with one of our Dutch diplomats on a briefing the same day. They sent all that back to the foreign and defence ministries. The essence of this was shared again with the Ministries of Security and Justice, Home Affairs, Finance and General Affairs. Only, that information was not shared with the regiment responsible for civil aviation safety. The Secretary of Defense has informed the Chamber on request that, if you are able to shoot a plane at the altitude I have just mentioned, you are also able to shoot a plane above the altitude of flight level 320 declared safe by Ukraine. However, this information has been fragmented and sold and remained with the Defense Department. That understanding is not shared with the person in charge of civil aviation. That didn't happen because there was no structure that forced us to share information with civil aviation. The Prime Minister is responsible for the lack of that structure. The same Prime Minister is now telling us that he has so good discussions with civil aviation and that things are going well now. According to the Prime Minister, there is no need for further regulation of this. I have no confidence in it, and that's why I'm tabling two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the intelligence services do not have an independent role in collecting threat information relating to airspace safety over conflict areas;]] [[Whereas intelligence services should have a duty to link information on conflict areas to civil aviation safety;]] [[calls on the Government to release capacity from intelligence services so that new risks to civil aviation are recognised in good time and shared with airlines if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas civil aviation safety should be a subject of continuing concern to the Government;]] [[calls on the Government to create the power for public authorities to impose on airlines on routes to and from the Netherlands in the very short term that they should avoid hazardous airspace,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Roon and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-78]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u250	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors present for their comprehensive reply. I have had to observe that a piece of this book can be closed, the piece on the events of this disaster, but that this book is far from closed when it comes to the final prosecution and attempt to prosecute offenders and those responsible. An important part of this debate was about whether sufficient efforts are being made to prevent this happening in the future, partly because a number of issues relating to information sharing in the run-up to the disaster at least raise the question of whether sufficient information is being shared between sufficient bodies in sufficient time. This debate focused on some of it. For this reason, I have also supported a number of broad-based motions which are heading in a somewhat stronger, sharper direction than the cabinet did. The event around MH17 is by its nature an event that quickly evokes conspiracy theories. It is not appropriate for a few people here to take an unsubstantiated approach around cover-up theories. I'm sorry about that. In this respect, I can very well imagine the Prime Minister's annoyance in the first term on this point. I would like to say here once again that, in the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the government has handled the issue conscientiously and wisely in its overall resolution. It is now waiting for the next steps around the criminal trial. I hope that all the possibilities will be exploited to ensure that this process takes place as authoritatively as possible and thus as internationally as possible. I'd be happy to make that call to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u251	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Cabinet for all the answers and discussions we have had with each other in the first term. In the second term, I will focus on three points. The first point is just a reminder to the Minister of Security and Justice to return to the outstanding question about the involvement of the Dutch government in the efforts of the OVV to get radar data from Ukraine. I'm sure we'll find out in detail. The second point is a thank you to the Secretary of State of I and M for informing the Chamber prior to the June Transport Council on how it is going to make a success of the Transport Council in terms of the EU's efforts, and in particular EASA's, and in particular to bring about concrete results. The third point is at the heart of this debate: how do we learn, how do we prevent us not only from focusing on possible similar risk situations in the immediate aftermath of MH17, and how do we ensure this with our services and in cooperation with airlines? That is why I have tabled the next motion, which has already been referred to a number of times. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that countries have primary responsibility for the safety of their own airspace, but that it has been shown that, unfortunately, their judgement cannot always be relied on;]] [[noting that air carriers are in turn responsible for determining their routes;]] [[Whereas it is neither desirable nor realistic that the above internationally based division of responsibility should be affected;]] [[Whereas, at the same time, it can be expected that the public authorities share with air carriers relevant information on concrete risks related to airspace safety, in particular for flying over conflict zones;]] [[Whereas information sharing with other persons or bodies, such as air carriers, is already governed by the Intelligence and Security Services Act;]] [[Whereas it is important that, on the basis of this legal framework, the collection, analysis and exchange of information between public authorities and air carriers are structurally anchored, in line with the OVV recommendations;]] [[calls on the Government to further concreteise the agreements with the Dutch airlines on the implementation of the intensified information sharing on airspace safety and flight over conflict areas and to formally establish a covenant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Servaes, Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Grashoff, Mr Van Bommel and Mr Voordewind.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u252	I've run out of time with that, so I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u253	You're not the only one tonight. The Prime Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u254	Mr. Chairman. If you'll allow me, I'll take the motion in part no. 72, the motion in part No. 73, the motion in part No. 74, the motion in part No. 77, the motion in part No. 78, the motion in part No. 79 and the motion in part No. 80 treatment. Mrs Dijksma dealt with the motion in part No. 75 and Mr Van der Steur motion for a resolution (Doc. 76. The good thing is that the motions follow exactly the lines of the debate. So I am not going to give long explanations of my views, because that would be a complete repetition of the first term. With the motion in part No. 72 we can live well. We regard her as a support for policy. We hope that the motion will be adopted. Of course, the question is whether it will succeed, given the signature. The motion in part No. We like 73, too. I'll tell you how we're gonna do it. We are prepared to enter into consultations on how we can make available the distributed material relating to the MH17 as best we can, of course, within the existing archival and confidentiality arrangements. With that comment, therefore, we are well aware of the motion on item No. 73. In referring to the debate that has taken place, I would advise against the motion in part No. 74. The same applies to the motion in part No. 77, the motion in part No. 78 and the motion in part No. 79. The motion in part No. 80 I highly recommend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u255	Mr. Chairman. There were two further questions from the first deadline and two more were asked in the second period. First of all, let me thank the members of the Chamber for their contribution in the second term. Mr Omtzigt asked a question about the ICCbs and the MCCbs in the first term. He asked what date the registration of the presence had taken place. As of 25 July, who was present was carefully monitored. The registration lists and the reports were shared with the OVV and also with the researchers of the University of Twente. Moreover, as regards the reports, I would like to say to Mr Bontes that the question raised by the Court of Justice on 22 February was also dealt with in detail. It has also become clear that the government has given access to the so-called objective reports of three specific ministerial meetings and gives full access to all documents of the Ministerial Committee on Crisis Management. That is what I am saying to Mr Bontes. I'll be right back with the assessment of his motion. Mr Omtzigt asked in the second term whether the government would press NATO once again on the resolution and requests of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I will give the same answer as in the first period. If the Public Prosecutor's Office requests action on this point, the government will do so, as we specifically promised in the debate on radar images.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u256	As in the first term, I would point out that my question was aimed at not providing information to the OVV. I don't know what information the D.A. asked for, let alone what was delivered to the D.A.'s office. So I can't judge that at all. It concerns the fact that the OVV did not have US radar data because those radar data were not requested, Russia's primary data because they were erased and Ukraine's primary radar data because Ukraine first said that all radar stations were in maintenance and secondly that a number of radar stations had been destroyed and that one station was in maintenance. Is the government prepared to ask these three countries afterwards how it is that these radar data have not been made available?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u257	I want to correct a factual error. I explained in detail to Mr Omtzigt in this debate, but also in the previous debate and in the written replies, and indicated that the Security Research Council had confidential access to the American information through the STUDY. So that is different from what Mr Omtzigt has just said. With regard to the other information, I refer to the investigation by the Research Council and, of course, also to the answer by the Research Council to questions from the Chamber about the expected effect of the information that would then have been obtained; I will not be surprised if those questions were from Mr Omtzigt. That was answered by the Research Council. That is also the answer that I have systematically given to Mr Omtzigt here. We are now dealing with the criminal investigation and the government has taken the position in this debate, in the previous debate and in writing that we will take action if the Public Prosecutor so requests. That is what is relevant now, because the report of the Research Council is ready, as Mr Omtzigt knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u258	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u259	During the investigation it was not possible to ask for this and after the investigation the research report is finished. With regard to the American information, we are also repeating our actions. The Research Council has clearly indicated that he has not requested the radar images and that he has been able to see the satellite images confidentially. I asked here about the radar footage. The radar footage of Russia has been destroyed. U.S. radar footage hasn't been requested. The radar images of Ukraine are not there, although 17 aircraft were shot out of the sky. This is the only accident in Europe in the last ten years where primary radar images are not available. Is the government prepared to ask these three countries, with whom we are friends, why this happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u260	I have answered this question several times in this debate, in the previous debate and in writing. Mr Servaes asked in the first term what exactly was the situation with the possible support of the Dutch Government for the activities of the Council of Research Ministers in Ukraine. My information on this is as follows. The Embassy in Kiev has, for the research council and for the former diplomat or envoy.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So there has been practical support, but of course there has been no substantive interference, because that is because the independence of the Research Council is not a reason. Mr Sjoerdsma asked in the second term whether I would like to indicate which plan the government prefers. I actually answered that in the first period. This is typically a decision that can only be made if the state of the investigation justifies it. So I can't anticipate that now. I have already told Mr Grashoff that there is no option in itself. In the motion in part No. In spite of the agreement that the minutes of the Ministerial Council meetings are state secret, Mr Omtzig has already informed Mr Bontes of those minutes. That means I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u261	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u262	Mr. Chairman. I will give an opinion on the motion on item No. 75. I would also like to return to a question from Mr Sjoerdsma. The motion in part No. 75 was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke and others. In this motion, the government is asked to work for certification of the security management systems and also to look at sanctions, for example. This motion is in line with what we are trying to do on our own through our efforts at ICAO. It has not been said in advance that it is going to succeed in achieving certification, but I would like to agree on an effort obligation with the Chamber on this point and see what is internationally feasible. Furthermore, we can indeed examine the possibilities of sanctions, including in the light of, for example, the European blacklist and the existing audit system. That's what I promised in my term. Of course, I am also prepared to consider what positive incentives can be built in. For this reason, I consider this motion to be a support for policy and leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Mr Sjoerdsma is still entitled to an answer following a debate which I believe he had with my predecessor in April 2015 on the same discussion reports. Things have really changed since then. The essence of Mr Sjoerdsma's question was actually what this led to the dialogue between society and other stakeholders and, for example, the department. The consultation is extensive, as we all know. All concerned departments and companies are now taking part. In this way, much more information is gathered from different angles. The conflict areas are indeed being taken into account. The consultation is now structured and periodic, as opposed to earlier. If there is an acute threat, there will be an accelerated meeting. A procedure has been agreed for this. Furthermore, I understand that there is a point of contact at the AIVD specifically to help airlines if there are any questions at certain points of threat. In addition, at European level, there is now the DG Home consultation in which the various European Member States discuss how the improvement in information provision between states and airlines can be initiated. The Prime Minister has already referred to this, and it is now involved. As my predecessor promised at the time, the consultation also discusses the commitment to ICAO. In addition to what I promised today: the Netherlands is making a so-called "working paper," a document for putting a stake in the assembly in September. To Mr Omtzigt I say that this important assembly unfortunately only happens once every three years. That document will also be given to the Chamber, so we can discuss it with each other. We will, of course, do the same with the parties involved. I also promised Mr Servaes that we would submit the EASA report, to which the Netherlands contributed, to the Chamber so that it could check our contribution to the Transport Council in advance. With all the motions that have now been tabled, in which far-reaching improvements have been proposed and of which we have embraced a large part, I hope that we will be able to achieve even better consultation. We will, of course, see whether this will resolve the discussion with the airlines that have been there. I sincerely hope so. Of course, that's what we're going for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u263	Short response, Mr Sjoerdsma!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u264	I thank the Secretary of State. I would like to ask one more question, and that can be very brief. A number of motions have indeed been tabled and a number of initiatives have been clarified by the Secretary of State. I understand that Mr Elias, who is no longer here, has asked for frequent consultations on flying over conflict zones. I think it would be a good idea if, prior to that consultation, a letter from the Secretary of State were to summarise all these things once more and also state how the initiatives taken by the Chamber, as they were today and which are likely to receive a majority, fall with the partners in civil aviation and how they will be taken further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u265	That seems to me to be an excellent idea in itself. I'll look in the direction of my colleague. I and M aren't in charge of the meeting themselves. We should report to the Chamber together. In itself, it seems fair to me to do so, because the Chamber wants to know whether the motions that have been tabled today also produce what they intend to do. Everyone must feel that we are all going to ensure that this information position is optimal. Well, that's our bet. Let that be clear. We too believe it is very important that this information, if it is available, is shared in good time. No one's waiting to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-21.u266	I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Security and Justice, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment and the officials supporting them. I would also like to thank the ambassadors of Australia, Malaysia and Ukraine who have attended the whole debate. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate in another way, via the Internet or another channel. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
