ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u1	"Rpho's" stands for "legal persons higher education." I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today, we're discussing a law to prevent abuse of names and degrees. It is important for students and employers that a bachelor really is a bachelor and a master really is a master. If there is a fake university or a fake college, it seems undesirable to me. If there are vague websites that offer or even offer for sale a master's title, we have to fight it hard and tackle it. For me today, the question is: do we need this bill to prevent abuse and deception? How often does deception take place in the Netherlands? Do Dutch institutions, for example, offer fake diplomas? At institutional level, we already know the instruments of funding and accreditation. The Council of State discussed "a limited added value" in this legislative proposal. On an individual level, it is already punishable by the granting of protected titles and degrees. So where exactly does it go wrong? Is it not enough to protect the degrees and titles properly, as we already do through the WHW (Law on Higher Education and Scientific Research) and the Code of Criminal Law? The question is also whether the nature of the deception lies in naming, or rather in deception in communication and information. Let me give you an example. Suppose an unaccredited institution presents itself as an accredited institution with recognised diplomas. At that time, action can already be taken on the basis of misleading communication. I refer, for example, to the trial of several years ago on Alhurra University in The Hague. The institution abused the legally protected title for non-accredited training. With the current legal possibilities, this institution was already sentenced to a fine of €50,000 for forgery in writing and scam. This example shows that abuse can already be tackled. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The sanction included in this law is substantial: an administrative fine by the inspection in the highest category of fine of €810,000. Why was an administrative fine chosen? If there is real abuse by non-education providers, criminal law can already be used. The Minister does not want that because she thinks criminal law is too heavy, but the administrative penalties she proposes are heavier than the criminal penalties that can already be passed on to crooks at the moment. This is what the Secretary of State is talking to himself about. I get the impression that the abuse is mainly an international problem, for example with websites presenting themselves as universities or universities. But is this bill the solution to this problem? Can the Dutch Education Inspectorate impose an administrative fine on a foreign commercial party? I don't think so. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. And why is it not enough to properly inform students to address this problem? I am thinking, for example, of a list of funded and accredited training courses. The Council of State also refers to the CROHO, the list of recognized institutions. I would like a response to that. In the light of Article 23 of the Constitution, a much discussed article of the law at the moment, it is also interesting to see how there is and remains room for new entrants in the system, i.e. room for new schools. Let me give you a very well-known example. The Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam was founded in 1880 as a private university by Abraham Kuyper. The VU did not receive the same funding as public universities until 1970. How much room is there for new entrants after this law if the name "high school" or "university" cannot be used until accreditation has taken place? However, that question is also the other way around. Does any university or college that is allowed to use this name only offer courses that lead to degrees or titles? Recognized universities also have activities that do not lead to a recognised diploma. Are they no longer allowed to carry out those activities under this new law? The minister is trying to tackle something that can already be dealt with by a law that deals with what you don't want to deal with. It's an irrefutable knot. The Minister wants to combat abuse by means of this bill, but she is hitting institutions that do not abuse their name "high school." For example, the Evangelical University of Amersfoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u3	If Members wish to discuss it with each other, I would ask them to do so outside the Chamber. Mr Bruins continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The EH is a socially established institute that will exist for 40 years next year. The name's all settled in. The good will now suffer the evil. The minister says he's trying to get his hands on crooks, but now he's forcing the Evangelical College to change his name. The ER has always been clear about his base year. Students reflect on the rest of their study career, but do not receive a government recognized diploma. The student is expected to pay part of the course costs, but a large part is paid for by gifts. I have never met anyone who, halfway through the middle of the year at the EH, found out that there was no question of an education offering a title. It just doesn't happen. The Minister already makes an exception in the law for popular universities and colleges, for example because of the relatively low price and lack of pre-training requirements. Why are these decisive reasons? I have tabled an amendment to make an exception for the ER as well. A law that prohibits should respect existing rights and claims for those who are in good faith. The Minister is given additional powers to deprive of training rights or to impose financial sanctions in the event of discriminatory practices and expressions. We know the reprehensible statements of the rector of the Islamic University, for example about women, Kurds, Jews and gays. With this law, the Minister introduces a power for himself to intervene significantly in the event of discrimination. The Council of State points out that the Minister can only intervene in failing the quality of education. The Minister is therefore going to go into the field of society and institutions. The Council of State reports that reporting is the appropriate way to prosecute discrimination. In this way, the judicial route is followed. Why does the Minister of Education have to judge this? That has to be done through the State's Attorney's Office and then through the courts, right? The public prosecutor may prosecute appeals for unjustified discrimination. Can the Minister comment on this? Besides, there's a tension field. In the Minister's view, when does discrimination occur? And why is only that one fundamental right highlighted? From a sense of social responsibility, Dutch institutions must act across the full spectrum of the democratic rule of law. In this way, there will be a proper weighting of fundamental rights. I would also like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. Nomen est omen, a well-known Latin spell. The name is a sign or an omen. Your name says something. The downside of course is that you can't just change your name, let alone force people to do it. Then the recognition and identity are at stake. These thoughts are also leading the SGP with names in higher education. Sometimes a name can put you on the wrong foot. That is quite clear when a college sells itself as a university; sometimes literally "sells." You'll only have the expectation of being educated as an academic, but still roll out unexpectedly as an HBO. First of all, there is, of course, a responsibility for the government. It must ensure that institutions covered by the Higher Education Act have the right name. How, for example, is it possible that an institution called "University" can still obtain accreditation for HBO training or even HBO training? In the case of private institutions outside the legal system, it is more difficult. In this bill it remains shady how many problems there are and how big they are. That's what investigators report. In recent years, only a few dozen cases of undesirable use of names have been reported. The question is also whether the problems in practice are so great that legal constraints are needed. And tell me for yourself, what employee takes an applicant seriously who claims to have a degree from Jet Bussemaker University? It's a long way from that, isn't it? How is it that you want to study in higher education without having to ask for a less well-known institution? What are the qualities? What are the powers? What are the possibilities of such an institution? Such orientations should also fall within the public's own responsibility, shouldn't they? The government indicates that the capacity to address institutions is limited. The SGP is curious to see what efforts the government has made in recent years to protect names and degrees as far as possible using all possible means, the instruments already in place. Did she, for example, urge the Islamic University of Rotterdam to change its name to college? For example, what administrative and civil action has been taken against institutions that lie about the possession of an accreditation of the Dutch-Flemish Accreditation Organisation (NVAO) that is responsible for this? Have there been tortious proceedings to deal with abuses? If not, shouldn't we try out those alternatives first? The SGP also likes to hear how far the protection of names and degrees extends. It is clear that you cannot simply use the name "high school" or "university" and not just give a bachelor's degree. But what about, for example, the term "hbo-training" or the term "training at Hbo-level"? How does the government assess the problem that institutions with all kinds of non-prohibited terms continue to defy the recognised system? Can the Minister explain why the explanatory statement states that non-WHW institutions should not also grant non-WHW degrees? Surely it remains entirely possible to provide your own certificates and diplomas? In this section, the SGP also draws attention to the high administrative fine proposed by the government when institutions wrongly use the name "university" or "high school." Why is it not more logical to use criminal law here, given that the wrong conduct of titles and degrees already has a place in criminal law? Why is this new instrument being introduced? Is a criminal approach not particularly necessary when it comes to facts such as fraud and fraud? In such cases, criminalisation is obvious in our view. The SGP aims to avoid unnecessary damage to institutions that have been making a good contribution to education without problems for a long time. The example of the Evangelical College just passed the review. My group also received a letter from the Foundation University, and so there may be more good initiatives that we do not now have on the radar. On the one hand, the SGP aims to avoid arbitrary selection in the law and, on the other hand, to ensure clarity in communication. The ban on asking for payment is neither necessary nor a good indication. With the amendment in part No. 10 which I have submitted on behalf of colleagues Rog and Bruins, I propose that institutions that indicate that they do not grant legally recognised degrees should remain free to keep their names. I'd like to get a reaction to this. I would just like to focus on social responsibility. Teaching is free and that freedom also applies to expressing opinions. That is a great asset in our democratic rule of law. However, the Constitution does not go beyond declarations of freedom, nor does it go beyond international treaties. The law can set limits. The SGP finds it unacceptable that freedoms may be abused to glorify, for example, violence or to declare the democratic rule of law inapplicable. A director of an educational institution should not be able to hide behind freedom of education or freedom of expression if he waves an IS flag or calls for marriage or honour. I would like to hear a response to the amendment aimed at explicitly banning the violation of public policy. The amendment has now been amended and I do not know the new number.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u6	I'll call this in as soon as I'm ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u7	The original number of the amendment was 2. That was the intention of the motion tabled by Mr Duisenberg and Mr Van Dijk on the basis of the legislative proposal. The government writes that educational supervision has been a means of preventing state-dangerous theories for a long time. Can the government further support that statement? Parliamentary history and literature do not seem to have any direct basis for this. Postma's Handbook on Education Law refers, for example, to the still existing Article 20 of Book 2 of the Civil Code for the interpretation of the concept of public order. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment stated in 2014 that supervision of educational organisations outside the framework of education legislation is in principle possible. This means that the original function of supervision, namely the prevention of derailments of freedom, is still in force. Given that threats to the rule of law are again topical in all kinds of ways, the SGP would like to see a closer examination of the scope of supervision of this issue. I would like to receive a further response to this. Finally, on this point, I would like to ask why the proposal is limited to higher education. The government indicates that other education laws already have citizenship obligations. That is true, but these laws are limited to the provision of education and do not contain any obligations regarding the behaviour of representatives. I'd like to hear the Minister's reflection on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u8	I will come back to the number of the amendment later. Mr Bishop, I understand that you have commitments elsewhere now, but the debate follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. The CDA fully supports the objective of protecting students and employers from malicious institutions and misleading use of the name university or high school, especially if it also wrongly promises or awards degrees. The Minister seems to want to put an end to the unjustified use of these names, but at the same time she seems to make an arbitrary number of exceptions. I refer to the Kindergarten University, the University of the Netherlands, the Volksuniversiteit, the Volkshoogschool. These are all examples of institutions that are not covered by the WHW but are allowed to retain their names. However, the Evangelical College and the Free University have to change their names, while communicating immediately that their private education is an intermediate year and does not provide a government-approved diploma. Don't you think the minister's gonna measure with two sizes? Why doesn't this bill link tighter the name of university or college, to falsely suggesting or wrongly awarding a degree? Can it go into the Council of State's view that fixation of the existing situation does not seem to allow for developments in the world of higher education? Is it prepared to exclude from this law the aforementioned institutions, the Evangelical College and the Free University, which so explicitly state continuously that they do not give a Bachelor's or Master's degree? This bill also extends to the non-acceptable conduct of a degree. Everyone understands that a degree obtained at Trump University has no value in the Netherlands. To what extent can anyone continue to apply such a degree after the introduction of this bill, and how does it relate to a PhD or Master's degree from Harvard University, or from an Italian university, for example in Pisa? I have a fellow group member who is more than average interested in the answer to that question. The CDA cherishes our binary system, with a distinction between the university on the one hand and the university on the other. We believe that this difference should also be clear in the title. We have asked whether it is possible to make an exception for academic training within a university of higher education, but we have received an adequate response to this in the report of the written consultation with the Minister. We have been convinced that it is not desirable for these academic courses within the university to carry out the same title as at the university. We want the name university reserved to institutions with promotional rights, which can call themselves university abroad, while colleges can call themselves university of applied sciences. We would like to maintain this distinction in the position of professors at the university, and we would also like to introduce this to lecturers in HBO. At the moment, however, that last title is not yet protected, while within the world of lecturers in HBO there is a need for it. That is why I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Then I come to the administrative fine, which the Minister of the lowest category wants to bring to the highest category in one blow. On this point, my group would like to receive a thorough response from the Minister to the extremely critical comments made by the Council of State, which even considers the level of the fine proposed to be disproportionate. Does this not threaten the same situation as under the Fraud Act, where the legislator has been flagged back by the highest court? Then I come to the complete cycle requirement, which has been added to the legislative proposal to our surprise. Does this requirement not introduce unnecessarily high thresholds for potential new entrants? Is it true that students must first undergo full-time training with new entrants without receiving a recognised diploma before that institution can obtain the status of a legal person in higher education? Is it true that this complete cycle requirement is not used in the MBO? Why is it not enough for new higher education institutions to undergo an extensive inspection and a test by the NVAO? The CDA blames the anti-Western, anti-democratic statements of the rector of the Islamic "University" Rotterdam. The question is, however, whether this reason is sufficiently serious to establish a sense of social responsibility legally. Can the Minister say again whether these proposals in its law do not affect the side-effects of fundamental rights, academic freedom and the freedom to organise education? How does it respond to the Council of State, which states that it is not the Minister but the Public Prosecutor responsible for prosecuting discrimination? And would a legal ban on glorifying violence not help better than include this part in the Education Act? Can it also state whether the Council of State was not right to say that, although it was not directly involved, the Minister could have also declared discriminatory behaviour by the rector at the Islamic University of Rotterdam? In addition, I say "university" between quotes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. The PVV supports the intention of the bill to anchor the protection of names and degrees in the law. Legal measures are needed. There are now no standards for the use of the names "university" and "high school." Organisations that wrongly call themselves that have always been difficult to tackle. I refer to the episode around the Islamic University of Rotterdam. The proposed measures to protect the names "university" and "high school" and the granting of degrees, including degrees based on foreign accreditation, will now make it possible to take much more effective action against deception. That appeals to us. In case of unlawful use of names and degrees there should be a penalty. The Minister wants to abolish the term "university." The PVV supports that proposal. The PVV believes that for Dutch students and employers the difference between Dutch universities and colleges should be clear. That is what we have always advocated. The Minister has added an amendment to this bill. Not only was Mr Rog of the CDA surprised, we were somewhat surprised. It wants the complete cycle requirement to be laid down by law. One more time: it means that training must be fully completed before a private provider can apply for recognition. Unlike the regular so-called paper test new training at an already existing college, the prospective legal person must have completed the training in question at least once in accordance with all legal requirements. With the complete cycle requirement, it seems as if the Minister is closing the door for new legal entities for higher education in the non-costed sector. In any case, it seems that it wants to set a threshold, because it is obvious that students will not be willing to go to training without a prospect of an accredited diploma. The reason for this change was the decision of the Council of State in the case-Welten, a financial instructor with the ambition to offer accredited training in the future. In its ruling, the Council of State ruled that the complete cycle requirement has no basis in the current law. Hence, I understand, this repair law. The PVV has the idea that introducing this requirement is undesirable and unnecessary, but I would suggest that we should like to be explained by the Minister again. We believe that, even without the complete cycle requirement, quality is sufficiently guaranteed. An aspiring legal person for higher education already has to do with an extensive study of the Education Inspectorate and an extensive test of new training of the NVAO. The final level achieved will also be reviewed after three years. That should be enough as far as we are concerned. So the Minister can intervene if the quality is inadequate. I'm curious to hear the Minister's answers. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch education must be above all doubt. The reputation of diplomas of our higher education institutions is important for the economy and for society, regardless of whether it is government-funded education or not. To be sure whether a diploma or title has value is in the interest of the student and of society as a whole. The government must set frameworks and monitor them. This bill is a valuable addition for the VVD. Unjustly issued diplomas, improper use of titles and names can be dealt with more effectively. In addition, the legislative proposal stipulates that all higher education institutions should promote social responsibility. I would like to hear from the Minister what is changing, funded and not funded for higher education institutions, from the day this law enters into force. What exactly is the Minister going to do when this law comes into force? In addition to this bill, will the Minister improve the provision of information to students, for example through DUO or other places where information takes place, so that it is crystal clear which institutions are allowed to issue WHW degrees and which are not? One of the requirements is that all institutions providing education under the WHW also accept the assignment to promote social responsibility. This is a logical assignment. Where are critical citizens trained with open attitudes and mutual respect in society? Higher education institutions, students, teachers, scientists have a crucial role to play. This begins with education in the broadest sense of the word, not only by providing knowledge about a subject or discipline or about scientific methods, but also by contributing to general education, self-development, bildung, good citizenship. What does the Minister expect to see in concrete terms with institutions in relation to this mission to promote social responsibility? What happens if an institution does not support the sense of social responsibility, that mission, or has for years failed to do so? What are the consequences for the accreditation and study advance? As far as the VVD is concerned, this is clear. If you don't want this assignment as an institution, we don't want the government to facilitate you. Then there is no accreditation, then there is no possibility to lift on our reputation, then there is no study advance for your students. The neglect of this mission represents the neglect of our achievements for my party. It is therefore good to lay down this standard in the law. In the legislative proposal, the Minister took Article 1 of the Constitution, the prohibition of discrimination, as the starting point to set a lower limit for the sense of social responsibility. But why was this lower limit chosen? Why was it chosen to limit the task of promoting the sense of social responsibility? In the motion tabled by Mr Van Dijk and myself on the basis of this bill, Mr Bisschop already referred to it. Why didn't the Minister take over? I propose to the Minister a number of cases in order to determine the limits and effectiveness of the law. The question is what the Minister can and will do when the law comes into force. The first case: the rector magnificus of a public university is one of the speakers at a conference on the functioning of examination committees in higher education. He makes discriminatory statements about women in the Examination Board. Those statements will be published later. The second case: a lecturer of an institution with a strict reformatory basis makes the remark that when visiting a quality assessment visitation panel, he says in his lessons that he is against gay marriage. What does that mean when you apply this law? The third case I'd like to present is next. The rector of a university writes on a foreign website that demonstrators are dogs and that the use of violence against them is in some cases permitted. What are the consequences of applying this law? We can, of course, focus on the strict conditions in the law, but I see the promotion of social responsibility mainly as a positive task for institutions. I refer to the Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences, which has its own constitution which is actively promoted. That constitution concerns the way in which people deal with each other. When you enter the Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences, you will be reminded of the practices, the values and standards of the Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences. You can see: we respect each other; we refrain from unwanted behaviour and speak to each other; we communicate in Dutch. When entering another educational institution in Rotterdam, my experience was very different. There were protesters at the door following alleged discriminatory and hateful statements by the rector. I didn't get a chance to talk to the principal. We probably couldn't have spoken to each other either, because he doesn't speak Dutch. How different can you fill out the task of promoting social responsibility? In the opinion of the VVD, this legal mandate creates expectations of all institutions, administrations and supervisors. Does the Minister share our opinion? How is she going to promote this? Will the promotion of social responsibility also play a role in the accession of new educational institutions and how will that work? Finally, one final question on a very different subject. What is the impact of this law on private education? In particular, Mr Rog and Mr Beertema have already referred to the fact that the complete cyluseis puts the private institutions at a disadvantage. Can the Minister explain if this rumor is correct? I'm rounding up. With this bill we guarantee the quality image and the role of our education in society. Dutch higher education must be above all doubt. Education is the place where people with different views and backgrounds meet, side by side, in classrooms and lecture halls, where we keep our shared values alive. We are doing this by showing what the values we all share, what we stand for and what we will defend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u12	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Duisenberg for his concrete examples, to which the Minister will respond. That can make us understand where this law is going to lead. I ask Mr Duisberg how he himself would think he should react when a rector of a university glorifies attacks, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u13	The times when something like this happened, I myself made the call to intervene and to have an investigation into whether the accreditation of the Islamic University of Rotterdam, which is, I assume, the case to which Mr Rog refers, could be withdrawn. I could and still cannot imagine that an institution whose principal makes such statements will receive an approval from the accreditation organisation, which that institution may call itself a university, where the approval seal will be on the door when you enter it. Whether something fits our standards and values and within freedom of expression is ultimately a judge's review, but I simply cannot accept that we give our seal of approval to such an institution. The second part of my answer is more formal. I believe that the law and the explanation of the law that I have seen so far provide an assessment framework for assessing such a case. On this basis, the question can be asked: is such an expression really contrary to existing legislation, such as the Code of Criminal Law, or is it subject to academic freedom? There the context is very important. In this case, I think the context would be to the disadvantage of the principal concerned, but it is up to others to assess that. If it is not covered by academic freedom or by another fundamental right, then you have to see whether that expression is really the institution to blame. In this case, it is my interpretation that, despite the Minister's requests, the institution has twice refused to waive this ruling, and I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u14	I asked this question because, at least right now, in the light of the freedom of education in the academic world, we are allowing more freedom to debate and to make statements than in other places in society. Mr Duisenberg refers to the Code of Criminal Law. Would it not be wiser, for example, to criminalise the glorification of terrorist violence in the Criminal Code?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u15	First of all, I find it difficult to draw such a far-reaching conclusion in this debate. Let me stress, however, that the freedom to discuss matters in the classroom is greater, for example, during a debate in the form of debate. There things can be said that are discriminatory or hateful if you take them out of context. At the same time, however, we should be able to debate these matters openly and that there is and can be friction. That context is crucial. Unfortunately, I cannot answer your first question because its consequences go beyond what is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u16	We now come to something that is always a special moment, namely the maiden speech by one of our colleagues, Mrs Asante of the Labour Party. As you know, it's used in the Chamber not to interrupt her. After her speech, I will briefly suspend the sitting to allow you to congratulate her, with the privilege of being the first to do so. Go ahead, Miss Asante!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr. Chairman. This is a very special moment for me, firstly because being allowed to represent the people or to represent the people is, in my opinion, the most beautiful profession in the world. Secondly, it is so special to me because it is not at all obvious that someone like me, with my background and my life's course, is standing before you today. I'm going to explain to you why. Who you see here today is the daughter of a former factory worker and a chambermaid, born in Ghana. In search of a better life and prospects my father decided to leave for the Netherlands in 1975. I can tell you: he didn't have an invitation! He had one goal in mind and that was to make his life a success and with it also mine, my mother, my brother and my sisters who would come after me. My dad was a smart kid. I remember when I was a little girl I used to sit on the couch with him a lot at night while my mom wasn't sleeping with politics much. Then we discussed the news. He read The Guardian and Newsweek and we discussed the things that were in there. He really wanted to study, but he lacked opportunities. What happened? When my father was in Ghana in the sixth grade of elementary school, my grandfather, his father, died. My grandfather made sure there was money for his uniform, for his books and for the prom, some kind of tuition in Ghana. That fell away in one fell swoop, and from then on, my father was all on his own. He had to go to work, but he kept his dream alive: one day he was going to make it. With the help of friends he left for the Netherlands, because the Netherlands was the country behind the corn fields. In Ghana we say: Abrokye, the promised land. At first, he was disappointed by the promised land, because his first months he wandered on the street, in the Vondelpark. He told me this story later, and I got a lot of awe for my father. But his ambition and will to work hard eventually became his salvation, because when the general was pardoned by the Den Uyl cabinet in 1975, my father was able to prove that he had always worked and paid contributions. He was allowed to stay in the Netherlands. What a party for him! But I was unsuspecting of all this. I lived in Juaben, a village twenty minutes away from Kumasi, with my grandmother, and that was my promised land. My mom worked in town. One day I got the news that I was going to the promised land too, and I didn't feel like it at all. I was 6. Then you want nothing but to be with your grandmother and play with your cousins and your cousins, and make your own toys out of broken sandals. What scared me was that I had to take the plane. Can you imagine? I hadn't even seen a car up close before! It scared the hell out of me. However, my father, my grandmother, my uncles and my aunts had no message to the protest of a 6-year-old recalcitrant girl. I still have to remember the day it happened. There I stood with my mother at the airport, accompanied by an uncle, as if he knew what I was up to. 'Cause I was gonna run really fast. But before I knew it, my uncle had grabbed me under his arm, and there I was on a KLM plane. I was wearing a red dress, I remember, and my first shoes, of those plastic shoes my kids swim in these days. Dad had forgotten, I don't know what it was like, probably because of the tensions he experienced, that it was 40° in Ghana, but at Schiphol -20°. There I was. I came to live in the Amsterdam Bijlmermeer, Koningshoef 297, I remember. That apartment isn't there anymore, but I can still see it in front of me, a ten-storey gray concrete flat. And I went to elementary school. My first and best friend... I'm still in touch with her "Gabriela" name. We had a lot in common. We were both small, curious, enterprising and naughty. She was white, blonde, with blue eyes, and I was a little bit like now but 38 years younger. Gabriela gave me my first bike. She took me skating. I remember: the first time we went ice skating, I came home and my hands were all frozen. I cried, and my mother had no idea what to do. Then what do you do in your logic? Hands under the hot tap! I'll never forget that. But Gabriela was my support, because she got to know Dutch society like no other could. My parents did everything they could to make me part of Dutch society. Because they thought and knew: if you weren't part of it, you couldn't be successful either. And I had to make their dreams come true. Can you imagine how angry, furious and at the same time at the end of my advice my parents were when I received mavo as school advice while I scored havo/vwo for my Cito test? The foundation of the school, probably very sweetly meant, was: you're too busy, you're right, you're talking too much, you're right, but most importantly, my parents didn't speak very well in Dutch. They don't know the language, they work in a factory, and if you want to study later, it's gonna be pretty hard, girl. So why don't you just do the mavo? In four years, you can work at the grocery store and have your own money. But my parents didn't accept that. They managed to get me into a high school where I could prove myself. Although that didn't work out very well, I managed to get my VWO degree. Then I had that piece of paper. I thought: okay, step one is taken, I decided to take step two, namely studying at the University of Amsterdam. The university. I'd be the first of our family. That scared the shit out of me, too. Did you think I could live up to expectations? Who would I find there? I was afraid I wouldn't fit in. On the first day, my daddy said, catching me by the shoulder... I still see him... while I almost had the door open and my backpack was on... hold on, I want to tell you something. I thought we'd get another sermon? But there came a message: Amma, in that world in which you are about to join, you will probably be outnumbered with your background. But know that you have what I and your mother don't have. You speak the language, you know the Netherlands much better than we might ever know it. You have the ability to connect your Ghanaian roots to the Dutch culture and to take and bring together the most beautiful of both cultures. Be like a tree, be grounded in your base and your origin, but reach out to the world, be curious. All this has made me who I am today and why I stand here. Without the general's pardon, without the will of my parents, without the accessible education, without my friend Gabriela, who represents for me the receiving society, I would probably never have been here. It has taught me that politics matters. So what we do here can directly affect the lives of people in this country. I am aware of that as no other. Politics can make society more beautiful, fairer and above all offer opportunities to those for whom success is not self-evident. Then how important is it that, if you go, you can and can study, the institution where you go to study is reliable and that the title you get is reliable? And especially that you are being prepared for your role in society, by teachers who are aware of their social responsibility. Who could be an example to you. These are teachers who do not discriminate, who do not preach hatred, who do not rule out or teach sedition, but set a good example. I and my group consider this to be very important. That is why, on behalf of the Labour Party, I am very positive about the fact that this bill is now before us for decision-making. The main objective of the proposal is to prevent the deception of students and employers through the use of titles and names of higher education institutions, by making rules to this effect. The granting of degrees, the bachelor's degree, the master's degree and so on is reserved for institutions that are authorised by the WHW. Furthermore, this legislative proposal explicitly regulates the promotion of social responsibility as a mission for higher education institutions. It'll be incorporated into the law. This task in the law offers the possibility to intervene when an institution behaves improperly or abuses itself. We accept our political responsibility by adopting this proposal and ask the Minister to ensure that when abuses occur, the democratic rule of law will do its job. We expect the Minister to be aware of the role she has and that this law will actually work in practice and that it will not turn out to be a paper tiger. I would ask the Minister to explain to us how she intends to inform the Chamber properly and in good time, especially if things are in danger of going wrong. I am also very curious about the Minister's response to the cases mentioned by my colleague from the VVD. These are very good cases, which indicate that it is not only about Islam, but that it is about the total society and the abuse that people can make of certain positions, for example to exclude women or to put aside anyone who has the same rights as everyone else here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you very much for this personal story. The bridge to the subject of this debate came a little late, but it came. I'd like to be the first to congratulate you. I would like to suspend the sitting for a moment to give Members an opportunity to shake your hand as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u19	Following the congratulations, Mr Van Meenen has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group. I see that interest on the part of the Labour Party is suddenly falling sharply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to make any attempt to get over this wonderful story. I am pleased to be the first to welcome Mrs Asante from this place. I thought it was a wonderful story. She's an asset to the Chamber, if I can afford to say so. I wish her every success and do not doubt the good cooperation. Then I'll get to the bill. Sooner or later it has to happen; I'll get there a little sooner than Mrs. Asante. Her story could have lasted a little longer for me. The bill has three parts. First of all, preventing deception of students and employers by protecting names and degrees. In addition, the possibility of closing down those institutions that make discriminatory comments. Finally, the Minister added a letter of amendment on the full cycle requirement. The prevention of deception and protection of names and degrees is an important issue. As far as I am concerned, the Minister has sufficiently demonstrated in the written round that there is a need for protection. The names "university" and "high school" are now protected, and that is a good thing. I also think it is a good thing to distinguish in the translation between 'university' and 'university of applied science'. I do have questions. You can say that HBO students receive an internationally recognized and recognizable degree. That is a good thing, because it allows them to go to a foreign university to continue their studies or to work abroad. That is also the first thing one looks at abroad, while the use of the name "university" can be confusing for students who come from abroad to the Netherlands. I myself know some students who had spent a year in college and only then found out that that was not a university. That's worrying. Nevertheless, the HBO Council rightly says that our students who go abroad have difficulty explaining the difference to foreign universities. The HBO institutions in the Netherlands also compete worldwide, of course, with former colleges of higher education who also hold the title university. So it's a complicated matter. Can the Minister tell us how big this problem is? I have difficulty with the exceptions for branches of universities outside the EEA, the European Economic Area. That can only be done if such a university belongs to the top of the world, the Minister states. I ask her exactly what the definition of world summit is. Is that the top 10 of universities, or is it the top 100, the top 1000? Where's the line? What ranking is used for this? Can we not use the database of the Nuffic, which states which diplomas are recognised internationally and also in the Netherlands? If we ask foreign universities to be among the world's top, should we not first make sure that we ourselves belong to the world's top? Last week it was announced that three Dutch universities have dropped out of the top 100. This is partly due to cuts in research by this cabinet. Does the Minister agree with me that this is a serious mistake and that we need to get back to investment in research and innovation? D66 has already clearly stated in the electoral programme that there should be an extra 1 billion in research and innovation. This brings us back to the top 100 and is one of the world's top. I hope, of course, that more parties will follow D66, but my main question is: what are we going to do to meet the demands we make at foreign universities? I have great difficulty with the Minister's ability to close institutions that make discriminatory statements. On the one hand, I read the strong criticism of the Council of State, not the least, which even advises against this part of the bill, in particular because discriminatory rulings can already be dealt with through criminal law and because this is at odds with the Constitution, in particular Article 23 on freedom of education. Moreover, the question is whether the Minister should now decide, instead of the judge, whether something is discriminatory. In my view, then, the question arises as to which assessment framework the Minister will use for this purpose. Perhaps the case put forward by Mr Duisenberg has already given a hint of the veil. On the other hand, of course, D66 and I do not want children to receive discriminatory education. The Council of State is literally saying: "Unless education itself is discriminatory and does not meet the requirements for good education, there is no reason for imposing an administrative measure in the form of deprived rights to training." Can I conclude from this that the Minister can now close an educational institution himself if education itself is discriminatory? If so, what is the point of this legislative amendment? I have reservations about the letter of amendment sent to the Chamber by the Minister. It lays down the so-called full cycle requirement by law. A new educational institution must have provided the training at least once in its entirety and must have graduated from the training. That sounds like an impossible demand that prevents the renewal of the offer. Others have already referred to it and thus harms the interests of students in that training, but I read in the Minister's letter that this is already the practice. Can the Minister explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the new colleague, Mrs Asante. The Netherlands has an open education system. This has a downside: it can lead to abuse, for example if organisations falsely pose as a Dutch university or college and wrongly state that they may issue recognized degrees as a bachelor, master, associate degree and doctor. That's bad for students, 'cause they buy a cat in the bag. It is also bad for the titles and therefore for the quality of diplomas. This law will hopefully stop this diploma inflation. That's good; congratulations for that! It has to be said that this is a little late. Several Members of Parliament have called for attention to be paid to this issue years ago. Already in the summer of 2009, I asked the then Minister of Education Plasterk questions about seven fake universities in The Hague. I argued that it is misleading if everyone can use the name "university" freely and I said that the name "university" should be reserved for accredited institutions. Minister Plasterk, also in this cabinet, said that the Dutch government has no involvement in these "universities" as long as they do not seek recognition and accreditation of their courses. The students who went there to study were disadvantaged. Hence my question: would the seven fake universities I mentioned at the time no longer stand a chance with this law? They still exist? And if so, will the Minister close them when this law is implemented? By closing, I mean, of course, administratively addressing as formulated in the legislative proposal. The motion of my esteemed namesake, Jan Jacob van Dijk, has also been mentioned many times in the note on the report. At the time, this motion was an opportunity to work on this, but that was already seven years ago. Can the Minister comment on how things have been over the past few years? Now that the Minister is going through with this, I'd be happy to go through with it. I have some points. Almost always when we talk about this kind of abuses in this committee, middle parties call in a reflex: self-regulation, code of conduct! But not in this case, because we're talking about a law right now. Why does the Minister choose not a code of conduct on this subject but legal measures? Another point is that no connection is sought with the Flemish system. Our Flemish neighbours have a much more closed system, with active supervision by the Flemish government. That would be too expensive and would lead to more bureaucracy, but the question must be: is it necessary? Is our Minister's proposed system foolproof? If not, we'll have to do something else. Of course, the costs should not be ridiculously high, but what would it cost? How many hours of extra burden would it be? It already came along: in 2013 the Islamic University of Rotterdam was compromised by controversial statements by the rector, Ahmet Akgündüz. In a pamphlet, he blamed the wicked and people with a western lifestyle for protesting against the Turkish government. He then named the Turkish-Dutch candidates for the European Parliament traitors and wrote that the pro-Kurdish party HDP is a party of homosexuals and Armenians. The board of the IUR, which offers two HBO courses, has never distanced itself from those statements. Mr Duisenberg and the undersigned took action on this by means of a number of motions calling in particular for an investigation to be carried out in order to prepare for the withdrawal of accreditation. Today we are talking about this bill. The key question in this connection is, of course,: does this law now solve that problem? We've already talked about this. The issue of promoting social responsibility has been added. The question is simple: what happens now to the Islamic University of Rotterdam and to the rector sitting there? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. I would like to endorse Mr Duisenberg's good examples. I am very curious about the response to the cases he has put forward. This law is about protecting names. Finally, I would like to ask a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u22	Thank you for joining Mr Van Dijk in those good examples. If possible, I would like to add one more case through Mr Van Dijk. The news just came to me that the rector of this university has sent out a tweet with a response to an article on the coup and its aftermath in Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u23	And you're going to ask Mr Van Dijk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u24	The translation of Professor Akgündüz's tweet is: "Our heroic state, clean these dogs!'. I would like to add this case. Will Mr Van Dijk ask the Minister what she thinks of a rector sending out such tweets and what framework this bill gives her to do with this too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u25	It's a bit of a twisted construction, but given the importance of the case, I'll allow it. Mr Van Dijk is asked to pick up Mr Duisenberg's suggestion and to direct it to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-6.u26	I have just heard that the rector of the Islamic University of Rotterdam has once again sent a controversial tweet. I'd like to hear from the Minister what her bill can do about that. Finally. This law is about protecting names. I would like to ask another question about the protection of Dutch at universities. I leave it to the Minister to deal with it, but it is topical. It has undoubtedly learned that more than half of university studies are offered in English this year. I can imagine that the President has his thoughts on this as well. 60% of all courses are taught in English. Competition in particular is an important argument for offering more training in English. I ask the Minister to take Article 7.2 of the WHW seriously again. It states that education should take place in Dutch, unless there are good reasons to depart from it. How does the Minister prevent this article from becoming a dead letter? Is it conceivable that it will apply a limit to the number of courses offered exclusively in English?
