ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the final part of the debate on this law in one term. This was the subject of legislative consultation last Monday. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. In last Monday's legislative consultation, I congratulated the Minister and his officials. I have appointed how important the Compatibility Act is to our democracy. It is a very important law: it binds ministers to financial rules and gives the Court handles to use its budget right. The law lays down financial relations. It's good to repeat that here. During the consultation, I appointed four open ends. I'll walk them by one by one. Firstly, the transition from a cash system to an income-based system. The Minister indicated that he expected the committee that is working on this to produce results in early 2017. A nice timing, because a new cabinet can then take further steps with the results. The second part concerns the control and accountability of the contribution-financed parts of the budget, i.e. the care and social security framework. The Court has no direct influence on these parts of the budget when it adopts the budget, i.e. in advance, and can hardly exercise ex post control over the annual report. The Minister's reaction during the legislative consultation has not been able to remove this feeling. The project which Minister Schippers has carried out, as the Minister has said, is of a totally different order from what we are talking about here, so I have been informed. We are talking about over 150 billion in expenditure on which control and accountability are limited. That doesn't just say the CDA. This is also the view of the General Court. In the first time, we have expressed our intention to table a motion on this matter. In the end, it has become a joint motion, including the Labour Party. Mr Vermue will be presenting the motion on behalf of the CDA shortly. I come to the third point: the Council's position on justice. The letter we received yesterday from the Minister of Security and Justice is clear in our view. A position as a college under the Compatibility Act does not give material benefits. Prior surveillance of the budget will continue. We do not therefore see any reason to support an amendment to the proposal before us. My final point is the budget law of the Chamber, the major legislative changes and the moment of reporting by the Cabinet to the Chamber. The minister described it as a detail, but for the CDA it's more. Changes of a total of 600 million that are simply reported to the Chamber too late, we do not mention detail. It is therefore important to ensure that this is done properly. As far as the CDA is concerned, that's what happens in the law. We have therefore tabled an amendment to that effect. This provides for the First and Second Chambers to be informed of major final legislative changes before the ceremony. By this I mean policy changes which lead to an overrun of the approved commitments and/or expenditure at budget article level. In the current situation, this is regulated by the state budget rules. As has been said, we believe that such a provision which affects the Court's budget law should be better laid down in the law. So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u3	And your only term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. With the modernised version of the Compatibility Act before us, the Labour Party assumes that it has a law that is sustainable and clearly regulates the responsibilities of future challenges. The first-term debate we held last Monday on the Compliance Act has provided a great deal of clarity on important questions. For me, this has in any case led to an amendment on the processing of multiannual budget amendments. In practice, the procedure already used between the Cabinet and the Chamber is thus guaranteed by law. In addition, I would like to raise once again the powers of the General Court of Auditors in the case of state participations. The Minister has provided additional information on this. That information did not convince me that the General Court should not have investigative powers in the case of State participations of which the Empire holds at least 51% of the shares. State participations serve a public interest. Local and provincial audit chambers are already allowed to carry out a survey of holdings of the province and municipality at a rate of 51. I believe that this practice should also be used in the case of state participations. The public interest justifies a more robust information position and control of legality. That is why I am tabling an amendment together with Mr Koolmees, based on a majority stake as a limit to the powers of the General Court. I still have a specific question after last Monday's debate. Mr Van Nispen of the SP has proposed an amendment which separates the Council's budget for justice. The Labour Party attaches importance to the separation of powers, or the trias politician. In response to previous questions, the Minister for Security and Justice indicated that the amendment proposed a far-reaching change. I look forward to hearing the opinion of the Minister of Finance on this. Last Monday, in particular, the debate pointed out that no changes were made to the funding system for the Council for the case-law with the amendment. Is this interpretation of the amendment still correct? Finally, last Monday we discussed the expenditure financed by contributions. Every resident of the Netherlands contributes to our welfare state. These contributions create the obligation of fair, clear accountability and sound democratic control. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the share of premium-financed collective expenditure has increased in recent years;]] [[Whereas the performance of the statutory contribution tasks has been invested by public and private parties;]] [[Whereas both the States-General and the General Court have less powers in respect of premium-financed expenditure than in respect of tax-financed expenditure;]] [[Calls on the Government to launch an investigation to strengthen the budget law of the States-General, including the improvement of the information position and the control of legality and efficiency in respect of expenditure in the premium sectors, and to inform the Court before March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Vermue, Mr Ronnes, Mr Koolmies, Mr Schouten and Mr Merkies.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34426-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, a question in advance. The General Court has an advisory role in the drafting of the Compliance Act. She gets to take a look at it. The question is: what is the situation now that a number of amendments are being proposed? What is the role of the General Court in this? Will she be able to respond to the changes before they are voted on? The Compliance Act is an important law for the House of Representatives. A number of Members have already indicated this. The law is about budget law. Good management, control and accountability are important. I have already indicated in the WHO that we should not try to solve all the problems we see with the Compliance Act, because this law is not always the most appropriate instrument for this. Control and accountability, certainly the control, also requires something from the House of Representatives. It requires commitment from us to pick it up and do it in a good way. We have already paid the necessary attention to this in recent times. I come to a number of proposals that we have made, partly on behalf of the PvdA, starting with an amendment on Prince's Day. We think it is important that the Compatibility Act should be read as completely correct and that there is a complete picture in it. Happily, the Minister has re-recorded Accountability Day. We would also like to put Prinsjesdag back into the Compatibility Act, as was the case in the previous Compatibility Act. For this we have tabled an amendment together with the PvdA. In the legislative consultation I have already discussed in detail the extension of some of the powers of the General Court. The Council of State was very critical of this and advises against the expansion of activities because the border to the private sector is being crossed. We also see that in recent times, under the old Compatibility Act, a lot of studies have been carried out by the General Court, such as the activities of TenneT and the Gasunie in Germany, major infrastructure projects such as the Betuweroute and tax expenditure aimed at improving the environment. The effectiveness of this has been looked at. As far as we are concerned, these are important matters, but it can also be done under the current Compatibility Act. That is why we have tabled an amendment not to extend the powers of the Court of Auditors. In the legislative consultation, there has also been extensive consideration of state participations. We have tabled an amendment which stipulates that the General Court must first see if it can obtain the information from the parent company and then from the subsidiaries and the grand-daughter companies. An investigation by the Court of Auditors will create a great deal of red tape for the companies themselves. It takes a lot of them to provide that information. If the information can be obtained in a good way from the parent company, the holding company, it is our preference, because then we will not put all those other companies to work. I have tabled an amendment on this too, and I look forward to the Minister's response to it. My final point is to include the international activities of the General Court in the new Compliance Act. We do not think it is the core task of the General Court. Of course, matters such as consultation should be possible, but the main task of the Court of Auditors is really to look at the efficiency and legality of expenditure. As far as we are concerned, we are deleting it from the Compatibility Act and we have tabled an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. In the legislative consultation, the SP has already stated that an important objective of the bill is to improve the budget law of the Chamber. In the opinion of the SP, budgetary law could be further improved. Several amendments have been tabled on this subject, which also lead to an improvement in the budget. Therefore, they can count on the support of the SP. My colleague, Mr Van Nispen, has himself tabled an amendment which provides for the Council to have a separate budget for justice. This proposal is based on the assumption that it reflects even more than we are now expressing the special position of justice in the state system. This has already been discussed on Monday. In the meantime, the letter from the Minister of Security and Justice has arrived, and tomorrow it will be discussed further in the general consultation of the Court of Justice. A great deal has been said about the contribution-financed expenditure and the audit of the General Court of Auditors. Since we cannot immediately introduce a complete change in the system of care, my group believes that the General Court should at least be given more powers to monitor healthcare expenditure. That is why my name is also under Mrs Vermue's motion to investigate the possibilities for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the clear answer in the first term. I can be very brief because I only have a few points. I have tabled an amendment to Article Undivided, formerly referred to as the 'Nominal and unforeseen' article, which states that it must not be negative when it comes to presenting the budget. I must say that this amendment was co-signed by Mr Merkies. That has not yet been processed, but it will be done; I will amend the amendment. The reason for this amendment is, among other things, that I believe that when submitting a budget, the cabinet should indicate where any targets should fall. I look forward to the Minister's response to this amendment. I have co-signed Mrs Vermue's amendment on state participation, because I also believe that there should be equality between local authorities and the government. I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. On Mrs Vermue's amendment on the coverage of amendments, I also have a question for the Minister. Does this amendment mean that only the consequences will be processed for a single year or a multiannual period, but that it is still possible for the Court to table uncovered amendments? I am not asking that because I want it so badly, but because I have also seen in recent years that, for example, in the case of budgetary treatment, parties are covering it from the balance. That is, of course, always the right of the Chamber, just as it is the right of the cabinet to do so; read the last Millions' note. I would like a response from the Minister. I also signed Mrs Vermue's motion to investigate the expenditure financed by contributions. I would add, as I said on Monday, that I am looking at the care, which, in my opinion, has a private character, rather than social security, which is more of a public character. However, I think this is good subjects to take into account in this research. I have complete confidence that this will also come out of the investigation. That is why I have co-signed this motion. I would like to thank the officials for their hard work. This has been a long year's work, I know. I hope it will come to an end now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you. This brought an end to the input from the Chamber. I'm just gonna check on the minister to see if he can answer right away. I understand he needs a minute. We therefore suspend for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u9	I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Finance for his answer to the questions still before us and to his opinion on the amendments tabled and the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the spokesmen who have complimented us on the great work that has been done in this new Compatibility Act. I will immediately pass on those compliments to the officials who have indeed been working on them for many years. It's been a big job. First of all, Mrs De Vries asked whether the Court of Auditors should not respond to the amendments tabled before the votes. That's not a illogical idea, but it's really up to the Chamber. If there is such a need, I can pass it on to the Court of Auditors. If the Court states that it attaches itself to it and that it would like to receive another opinion from the Court of Auditors on this matter, I think it is appropriate to do so. Then we're gonna organize it. If I look at the list of amendments, I can think of a few on which the Court of Auditors is enthusiastic and a few on which the Court of Auditors will not be so enthusiastic. However, it is up to Mrs De Vries to consider whether she thinks that is a relevant argument. I shall now turn to the list of amendments and the motion tabled. The Van Nispen amendment c.s. in piece No. 9 looks forward to creating a separate budget chapter for the Justice Council. We discussed the arguments in detail during the legislative consultation. It cannot be the case that this part of the public service is placed outside the normal budgetary system, and thus outside the normal political and democratic decision-making on how resources are used, including the control of whether those resources have been used properly. I believe that the discussion on the Council's position on the matter of justice should continue tomorrow with the Minister for Security and Justice. This amendment is actually an amendment to the Law on the Judicial Organisation. I am not in favour of this amendment on the basis of my budgetary responsibility and the system of the Compatability Act. There is no doubt whatsoever about the Council's independence from the case law, but the funding goes through the budget of V and J. This funding is primarily subject to decision-making in the Cabinet, and ultimately and primarily to decision-making in the States General. I would not like to see the suggestion that we are looking for an exception on this point alone. We are trying precisely to improve budgetary management at the Ministry of V and J, and the V and J family is, as we know, broad and large............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At the same time, we also invest extra in the Ministry of V and J. This amendment really points in a different direction. There is also a political load behind Mr Van Nispen's words, namely the creation of a separate position in possible discussions on austerity. That's how it got publicized. I am very opposed to this and I therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u11	I would like to make it clear that this amendment does not seek to change the Council's funding for justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u12	It is always important to understand the intention of the petitioner, including for the history of law. The intention of the proposer is indeed to create a kind of separate consideration and a separate balancing system through a separate budget. I don't think we should send that signal. So I'm sticking to my judgment. The Koolmees/Merkies amendment in part No. 10 is about the post Still undivided. That post may be negative, but this amendment excludes that possibility. As already mentioned in the legislative consultation, this possibility, and indeed the budget article itself, has a very limited function. That is also laid down here in the legal process. It is applied only to reflect the wage and price indexing, a target or any other amount of the budget to be distributed. It's an administrative booking. That article therefore does not allow expenditure to be incurred. It will always have to be incorporated into subsequent decision-making on other budget items from which expenditure may take place. That would be a cut in the budget. That last point, the booking of a residual item of additional expenditure or savings, must therefore also be an exception. That must also be able to be argued. The Chamber can ask the cabinet: "Why did you do that? Isn't that too much?" Of course, the Chamber can send in advance and indicate how it should or should not be, but in all cases the Cabinet returns to the Chamber at some point. In the case of a supplementary budget, it is then indicated that the last amount to be filled in is now also filled in in a certain way. The Court's budget right remains entirely unchanged. So the only thing this amendment does is to remove that last piece of flexibility, while the use of flexibility can sometimes be argued. I wouldn't support that. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u13	I'm in a negotiation mode. In itself, I understand this argument. However, I find it difficult if the second supplementary budget, on 1 December, with the autumn note, still has items to be distributed. I am quite prepared to adapt my amendment to the spring note, the first supplementary budget, so that there can no longer be a negative item at the first moment. That is also the time when the Chamber can talk about fulfilling a task. I understand the need for flexibility and the desire to see what happens in an ongoing year, but the spring note does not appear until the days before 1 June. Then, in May, the Chamber can take a decision on the way in which that mandate is booked. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u14	I'm going into negotiation mode, too. Maybe this is how we can do it. This amendment could become superfluous if, by speaking this out against each other now, we set out in the legislative process and in this report that the principle should be that the first supplementary budget, in the spring, should be allocated the post and the cut. Let me add something to that; let us see if we can still offer each other something. Where there is an amount still to be begged or begged We will always explain in the budget on Princess Day why we have to cut back. There must be a special circumstance, a particular reason why a certain amount of residual savings is often not possible at present. In the budget, we will indicate the reason why this amount is not completed until the first supplementary budget has been completed. It should not be an easy option for the departments to write down a difficult cut. The budget should specify why this amount has not yet been allocated to specific budgetary items.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u15	Let me get this straight. When presenting the budget on Prinsjesdag, there is a clear argument as to why this system was chosen. In spring notes, the mission is completed. If it is not filled out, special attention will be paid to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u16	I would like to make it even more stringent: it is filled in in the spring note, point. It is not prohibited by law, but if the cabinet or a minister wants to postpone that decision even further, it must have a really good story. The Minister will have to present it explicitly to the Chamber: this is not the procedure, but there is a special circumstance, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u17	I am pleased to be surprised by the Minister's attitude. I'm gonna think about this. I shall return to it for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u18	If we go along these lines, we will, of course, also lay down this method in the agreements with the departments. An amendment to this point may not then be necessary. I come to the third Tuesday of September, which is Prince's Day. As you know, that date is already enshrined in Article 105, second paragraph, of the Constitution. I have to say more precisely: Prince's Day itself is in Article 65 of the Constitution. This amendment also explicitly lays down this in the Compatibility Act. I'm fine with that and leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u19	That is the amendment to item No. 20. It was no. 11, but it's no. 20 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u20	I come to the amendment to item No. 12...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u21	I am not sure, but I believe that the Constitution states: on the third Tuesday of September or earlier. If the Compatibility Act contains the third Tuesday, is the possibility of "or earlier" excluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u22	It's even more precise. The Constitution states: the third Tuesday in September or an earlier date to be determined by law. We're now settling by law that it's the third Tuesday. If the Parliament would like to bring that forward, it can do so by amending the Compatibility Act on this point. This is in line with the Constitution, because it says: or rather, but by law. That would be an amendment to this amendment by Mrs Vermue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u23	So unlike the 1971 initiative by Mr Van Mierlo, Mr Van Thijn and Mr Wiegel, there is no need for a constitutional change, but only a change of law to do so earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u24	That possibility is already in the Constitution anyway. We now include the date of the third Tuesday in September, being Princess Day, also in the Compatibility Act. It remains to be seen that according to the Constitution it can be done sooner, but that it must be done by law. We will then come back to this article in this Compatibility Act to amend it, and I express the hope that this will not happen. Then I come to the multi-annual processing of amendments. At this point you must allow me to return to what Mr Van Nispen said. He supported this point by pointing out an amendment tabled by Mr Dijsselbloem, then Member of the Chamber. It was a major amendment to the budget of then traffic and water state, in my memory for 500 million. He said that the amendment was not implemented at the time, so we need to deal with it now. It's done. The following year, a new amendment with new coverage has been tabled and adopted, and that 500 million has indeed benefited the South and East Netherlands. The discussion then was not about multi-annual processing, but about coverage, which, according to Traffic and Water State, could not. The following year we found another cover and the amendment was implemented. This is for parliamentary history.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u26	The amendment in part No. 12 maintains an existing working method and an agreement already established in 2002 by the Minister of Finance in a letter of Chamber, but I have no objection to this being regulated by law. If an amendment is tabled which, of course, also has adequate multiannual coverage, the Cabinet will undertake to include it in the budget for a multiannual period. Mr Koolmees has asked whether this should also be excluded from the balance. Does this rule out that it may be excluded from the balance, and does this apply to the same thing? In itself, you can take it out of the balance. I also believe that this year's D66 counter-budget will even cause some damage to the balance, which I would strongly advise the Chamber. But the Chamber can of course decide that. It is a point which, in my opinion, should not be made in the case of an occasional amendment, but in the case of general considerations. Then you should also really say: you come up with a plan with this balance, with this deficit or surplus, but we want to spend much more at the expense of the balance. That's a key policy line. I think that, in the case of individual amendments, the cabinet would, at a later stage, strongly oppose an attitude of 'take it out of the balance'. That must really be supported by the General or Financial Reviews, otherwise it is simply impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u27	Thank you for this explanation. Clear. For the sake of completeness, I would also like to point out that, of course, the cabinet also had a balance of 2.5 billion. The cabinet is therefore also guilty of charging the balance of expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u28	For the Acts, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u29	No, it's not like that. We did change the framework, however, after pushing it down with some firmness in the spring due to the problem of terms of trade. However, I think this debate will come back in smells and colours next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u30	We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u31	Me too. Then I come to the policy changes after the autumn note. That is Mr Ronnes' amendment to item No. 13. I would have said in the legislative consultation that this is just a detail. I certainly did not mean it that way, as I say for the Acts. I want it recorded that I certainly didn't mean it that way. I have said that in this law we provide that, when it would occur, colleagues should always report this to the Minister of Finance, so that it can ensure that it is properly notified to the Chamber by the ministers concerned. Now this amendment also regulates that it should be reported to the Chamber, but in a way that makes the Minister of Finance head of responsibility. That was not exactly what I was hoping this amendment would include. Now the amendment says that the Minister of Finance must inform the Chamber of the major changes in expenditure, commitments and receipts after the autumn note at the latest three days before the recess. I think that is a less happy solution, because I would like the ministers responsible to report to the Chamber at the latest three days before recess and, if possible, before. I think that's a more appropriate approach. My proposal is to consider whether the amendment can be adjusted in this direction. In that case, I would leave the judgment to the Chamber. That does not relieve me of the duty, as has already been said, to ensure that it is done. We've made sure of that by now. I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done on this subject. 15. This concerns the question of when the Court of Auditors may enter into State participations. The Council of State is consistent in its opinion that this should only be allowed in the case of a shareholdership above 95% of the shares, because of the equal position of shareholders laid down in the Civil Code. It cannot be that the State acquires itself a special position. However, you can argue about that. When it is settled by law, the State often has a special position. However, there remains, of course, a tension between shareholders. Following a request from Mrs De Vries, we have shown what this would look like, where this would lead to conflicts. On that basis, you must honestly say that those potentially conflicting situations will be very, very limited. One example is Schiphol, where part of the shares are held by Paris Aéroport. However, if you look again at who the underlying shareholders are, you will see that that is the majority of the French State. I do not think that the French State, which also knows a Court of Auditors, will oppose or sue us if the Dutch Court of Auditors carries out an investigation there. So I think, on the basis of the analysis we have sent to the Chamber, that the number of examples of potential conflicts will be limited. That means that, considering everything, I want to leave the judgment to the Chamber. With that, we are at a point equal to the Municipal and Provincial Laws. Moreover, Amendment No 51% states that: The municipal and provincial laws state 50%. Maybe we should take a look at that. If we're even, let's do it exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u32	I am, of course, prepared to amend the amendment on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u33	Thank you. That was about the amendment to item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u34	I leave the amendment to the House's discretion. With the amendment in part No. 16 Mrs Aukje de Vries wishes to delete the article which governs the international powers of the General Court of Auditors. Her motivation is that this is not a core task of the Court of Auditors. This part really came at the request of the General Court. Not because she likes to do mission creep and wants more and more tasks, but because she has international activities. Article 78 of the Constitution requires that the tasks of the General Court of Auditors should be governed by law. So, strictly speaking, if we don't settle it, the General Court shouldn't actually engage in international activities. The practice is a different one. Nor do I think that we want to make it impossible for the Court of Auditors to carry out cooperation projects, to assist or support a sister accounting room, or to do similar activities. So the article is not meant to do all kinds of new things, suddenly to work very internationally and to ask for a lot of money for it, I say explicitly, but simply to settle neatly, in accordance with the Constitution, that the General Court may engage in international activities. That is why I would like Mrs De Vries to consider allowing the Court of Auditors to continue its current activities in a proper and legally regulated manner. I come to Mrs De Vries' amendment to item No. 17. This concerns the access of the Court of Auditors to subsidiaries and small- and medium-sized enterprises which are 100% owned by a State participation to which the Court of Auditors has access. Mrs De Vries felt that it would be desirable for the Court of Auditors, in principle, to address the parent company and only when it is necessary, because the information or investigation of the parent company does not provide sufficient clarity, gives access to underlying subsidiaries or small-scale subsidiaries. Let me make it clear that I think that is the right way to proceed. I am therefore in complete agreement with that approach. I think it should be like this, too. First you go to the mother to see if you can find enough information and come to conclusions. If that is not possible, because all activities or a large part of the activities are in a daughter, there is a justification to look at the daughter as well. It is thus stipulated in the legal history that this would be the right way to proceed. I don't know if that's how we're supposed to put it in the law. If the Court asks the Court of Auditors for a reply, the Court of Auditors might be able to indicate whether it agrees that this will be the logical and hence possible way of working for the Court of Auditors. If the Court of Auditors confirms this, Mrs De Vries could consider considering and withdrawing the amendment as superfluous. Maybe it's good to wait and see. Otherwise, I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I have no major objections to it, but I think it is in line with a logical way of working. The Aukje de Vries amendment in part No. 18 the proposals for enlargement are reversed, which means that the General Court is no longer allowed to investigate private organisations and tax concessions. The cabinet believes that this will create a control gap which is now subject to considerable public resources. For this reason, I think it is important to give this competence to the Court of Auditors, although it is very claused, delineated and carefully formulated. At first, we had said it more broadly. Following the opinion of the Council of State, which was critical of this, we then made it more specific and delimited in the proposal. In this way, we have responded to the reservations and objections expressed by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u35	And your judgment is, then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u36	This is what I'm telling you. It's really in violation of the cabinet's intentions. Then I'll come to the motion. I'm really gonna have to dissuade him. We have had the debate again and not for the first time. The main argument is that the assumption is really incorrect that the Lower House has no influence on the use of premium-financed expenditure. This is all done on the basis of (sectoral) laws, which are adopted here. In fact, this is the case in social security. This is largely the case in the care sector. Think of establishing the package and other legislation on this issue. In addition, the premiums are "the name" as it says, which are collected for a specific purpose. Firstly, in the light of its completely free budget right, the Chamber should amend those sectoral laws if it wants to use the money differently. Then the point of reference here is not the budget in the cabinet's opinion. Secondly, they are premiums, which are actually collected for a specific purpose. That is why it is really a different matter from budget-funded expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u37	It looks as if the Minister is already considering the results of the investigation. I agree with him that in many areas the Chamber already has the potential to exert influence, but certain possibilities are still very limited. Think, for example, of giving discharge at the end of the tasks at the beginning of the budgetary states. The question in this motion is absolutely not to launch a system debate, but rather to make it quite clear what options there are to strengthen budget law and how we can take the powers of the General Court into account. The results will then be for a follow-up debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u38	I thank Mrs Vermue for the clarification, but it will not change my opinion, because I sincerely believe that an investigation needs to answer outstanding questions. The cabinet doesn't see those outstanding questions. You can think different about that. That is why I await the opinion of the Chamber, but bringing premium-financed healthcare expenditure under the budgetary law of the Chamber requires a major change in the system. Bringing social security contributions to the budget and under the budgetary law of the Chamber now means an intervention in the current system and a change in the role of the social partners. Now I can see from the faces in the Chamber, and that is interesting: different reactions to different themes. This makes the coalition under this motion vulnerable, in the sense that some would very much like to bring healthcare expenditure under the control of the Chamber. This change in the system is taking on the power of the insurers. Others want to bring social security expenditure under the control of the Chamber. This reduces the role of the social partners. It is therefore an opportunity coalition that is asking to investigate this further, but that coalition is falling apart when it comes to content. We discussed the content in the debate. I don't think it makes any sense to do that again. The Chamber is my boss, but she is asking me to give a judgment: the Cabinet does not think it makes sense to re-examine it. So I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u39	Even so, Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u40	I think there are substantive arguments, apart from all kinds of political preferences in this Chamber, to look at social security expenditure. These expenditures consist of all kinds of pots, public insurance, employee insurance, funds that are continuously deficient and do not offer cost-covering premiums but are all part of the budget infrastructure. That's not really transparent. I agree with the Minister that there are all kinds of different agendas behind this. That also makes sense, because we have had a lot of discussions about this in recent years. This discussion is similar to the burden-benefit discussion. Once every two years, this discussion comes back. I think it would be a good idea for me to put all the arguments together and get an overview of what we have now, of the arguments in the healthcare sector, which I have always said I find complex in terms of private law. Write it down, put it together, then we can have a good discussion about this. This is because we continue to insist that the Court of Auditors indicates that we do not have sufficient powers and the cabinet says that it knows exactly where it is. And all on my own account I say: social security is a bit of a mess. Can the Minister, with this explanation, reconsider his assessment of this motion, under which 80 seats are attached to the signing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u41	I am a realist; I have also seen the signature, but I do give the judgment of the cabinet. We shouldn't fool each other. Indeed, this discussion has often been held, and often along the same lines. That's okay. It is also interesting to resume the discussion on whether that should not change, once in a while. After all, it is a lot of expenditure, so I understand it all, but I do not expect that the research will lead to new arguments. I believe that I myself sent a very comprehensive letter on healthcare expenditure two years ago, which dealt with precisely these questions: what are the pros and cons, what does that mean, how is it controlled, who is responsible for efficiency, legality and so on, and how is it set up? So I await the judgment of the Chamber, but I ask for a judgment myself: do not do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-10.u42	This has put an end to the Minister's input. We will be voting on the amendments and the motion next Tuesday. We will ask the Court of Auditors, as Mrs De Vries has also pointed out, to give an opinion on the amendments tabled before then. This was the final part of the debate on the Compatibility Act 2016. Once again, I thank the Minister for his presence.
