ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Smaling. Speaking time shall be set at two minutes, including the submission of any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr. Chairman. My motions are about noise issues in wind turbines. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Wind Energy Knowledge Platform in its establishment consists solely of professionally involved parties and may lead to group thinking;]] [[Whereas this may lead to a lack of meaningful contradiction;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the knowledge platform to non-professional organisations and to link the provision of financial support to it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u3	Mr. Chairman. The Oudebildtdijk and Nieuwebiltdijk in the municipality of Het Bildt have been designated as protected villagescape. It is no less than 24 km that have been designated as a protected villagescape. This is very against the wishes of the municipality. The decision was taken by the province and finally by the Minister of Education, Culture and Science. It is strange in the light of the forthcoming Environment Act that we decide across the municipality to establish such a large area as protected villagescape. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the protection of city and villagescapes from the Monumentenwet becomes part of the Environment Act, encouraging participation and consultation at the front;]] [[Whereas the designation of the Oudebildtdijk and Nieuwebildtdijk, municipality of Het Bildt, as a protected villagescape has caused many farmers to worry, because they are afraid that they cannot develop their business as they wish and need under the status of protected villagescape;]] [[Considers that in the establishment of the physical environment, cultural and historical values should not be watered down to the full width of areas, thereby undermining the freedom of choice (i.e. the reduction of wealth) or economic values;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the designation of protected villagescape in Het Bildt, also in view of the fact that the municipality itself is not in favour of it;]] [[calls on the Government to exercise restraint in future cases regarding the designation of protected city and villagescapes and to include stakeholders in the consideration and decision-making as far as possible at the front,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u4	Mr. Chairman. My contribution during the general consultation on spatial planning was, among other things, about the ladder for sustainable urbanisation. As a result, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that sustainable urbanisation is the tool to strike a balance between the use of scarce space and the dynamics of the city and thus makes an important contribution to spatial planning in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the linking of this ladder to sustainable urbanisation can still be improved to administrative practice and this improved connection is expected to increase the use of the ladder;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a plan of action aimed at optimizing the ladder sustainable urbanisation and not to limit itself to merely adapting the definitions currently contained in the ladder in order to encourage the use of the ladder,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Cegerek. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u5	We have talked about the ladder before and more often, including last year in the treatment of the Environment Act. At that time, the Chamber adopted a motion asking for exactly the same thing as Mrs Cegerek is now asking, namely to simplify the ladder so that a) the use is to be done in a good way and b) the use is also to be made better. In the AO that we have discussed, the Minister also promised to come forward with a new proposal in the spring on how to set up this ladder. In fact, she has even promised that there will be an evaluation of its use to date in September. This motion therefore seems completely superfluous to me. Why does Mrs Cegerek propose a totally unnecessary motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u6	I do not, of course, agree with Mr Veldman. I am tabling this motion because it is necessary to look again at that ladder. During the AO, I asked the Minister what was happening. In November, the Minister sent a letter to the Chamber in which she wrote that she would look at the definitions. As a result of that letter, I would also like to see a plan of action to optimise the use of the ladder. I know that Mr Veldman also tabled a motion a year ago, but we are now a year ahead and we still find that a large part of the municipalities and provinces are not yet using this instrument properly. In this sense, there is work to be done and a plan of action has to be put in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u7	We are not going to have a substantive discussion, but if you want to say something about the procedure, you may.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u8	In substance, I fully agree with Mrs Cegerek, but my point concerns the procedure. Exactly what she is now saying, we also stated last year when dealing with the Environment Act as a Chamber. At that time, the Minister intended to adapt this to the introduction of the law. At that time, the Chamber said: no, you must get going in advance. The Minister repeated that during the AO. She has confirmed that she is doing so. I don't know what Mrs Cegerek wants. Last year, I believe, we had over 3,500 motions in this Chamber. At least this is one that is completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u9	I don't hear a question. That is the opinion of Mr Veldman. As I said, a plan of action is now needed to work on optimization and good use of the ladder. I don't see that yet, so I hope it will come. So I'm holding my motion because I filed her for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u10	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to talk about two topics. I'll start with the asylum seekers' centers. I have raised this issue a number of times during various discussions. I am now going to make a motion to that effect, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the 10th tranche of the Crisis and Recovery Act has simplified the placement of asylum seekers' centres;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the passages on asylum seekers' centres from the 10th tranche of the Crisis and Recovery Act;]] [[calls on the Government to stop opening asylum seekers' centres in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u11	I'm also filing a motion on wind turbines. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is in danger of being built up with wind turbines;]] [[considers that this is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to stop placing wind turbines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u12	Mr. Chairman. In the Smaling motion in part No. 22 The Government is invited to extend the Wind Energy Knowledge Platform to non-professional organisations and to link the provision of financial support to it. I'm dissuading the motion. My colleague from EZ and I have indicated, following the results of the pilot Knowledge Platform Wind energy, that we do not want to continue with a knowledge platform in this form, but rather to continue with the Energy Dialogue. It was officially launched today by Mr Kamp. In addition, we choose to build a knowledge network for wind energy. I will design this knowledge network in line with the Expertise Network Water Safety. Scientists will make requested and unsolicited knowledge available to the region, with the aim of better and more efficient decision-making. Non-professional organisations can take part in the Energy Dialogue as a matter of course. I therefore reject the motion, in particular because it deals with the Wind Energy Knowledge Platform which will not be continued, and not with the Energy Dialogue launched today by Mr Kamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u13	May I advise you not to use the word "pilot" and propose to use the word "pilot project" for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u14	I'm sure you can, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u15	The motion is irrelevant rather than being dissuaded; do I see that correctly? After all, a decision has already been taken to shape the Wind Energy Knowledge Platform in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u16	I understand that there are new rules of the game, but I did not know that the qualification "irrelevant" was added to the decision list. In terms of content, I would like to point out that the new Energy Dialogue is open to non-professional parties and that the Knowledge Platform does not continue to exist in its current form.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u17	Then I'll see what I'll do with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u18	We'll see about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u19	If Mr Smaling put the word 'energy dialogue' in it, I would say that we are already doing it. It's up to Mr. Smaling what he's doing with it. In the Smaling motion in part No. 23 The government is invited to further study the current standards and results of these publications, of Koppen and Fowler and of Nieuwenhuizen and Köhl. In addition, the Court is asked to inform it of how the Decision on general rules for environmental management establishments (Activity Decision) should be amended in order to bring this into line with each other. I also advise against this motion. A different sound standard was deliberately chosen. The new standard is based on a dose level that takes into account differences in noise for day, night and night. The House of Representatives has agreed to this. Adjusting the Decision general rules for environmental management establishments means that we go back to the old standards. It also means that we will not be able to meet the 600 MW renewable energy target by 2020, because the above mentioned publications reduce the standard, which will reduce wind turbines. By the way, in the Environmental Act, all noise standards will change to the dose measure for ambient noise, the L. I am prepared to update the notification after two years, so that we can include new scientific studies. I'm dissuading the motion as it is now. In the Smaling motion in part No. 24 if it is decided to maintain the wind turbine noise paragraph in the Activity Decision, as I have just proposed in the previous motion, the government is requested to amend the rules. It is proposed to amend them in such a way that a limit value which can be checked by direct measurement on the façade is applicable as in other forms of industrial noise, that the standard is appropriate for rural areas such as the standard for agricultural activities, and that the standard leaves room for tailor-made work by local authority. This motion, too, I repeat, I do not recommend. The first reason is that, if we now adapt a standard to the limit value of the Act of Activities, we are thus abandoning the desire to standardize the noise as provided for in the Environmental Act. Moreover, as I have just said, the target of 6,000 MW by 2020 is not feasible because there needs to be more distance between turbines and homes. The second reason is that the standards for agricultural activities are stricter because they apply to another source of noise. The justification of the current standard, 47 Lden, shows that this standard is appropriate for wind turbines. We should not change it, partly because adaptation is putting the 6,000 MW target at risk again. I also speak here, as the Chamber should, on behalf of my colleague from EZ. The third reason is that the Activity Decision has scope for tailor-made work by the local authority, namely Article 3.14a, which deals with particular local circumstances. I can reassure Mr Smaling on this point. In general, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u20	I do not hear anyone speaking on behalf of the Minister of EZ, I am with the Minister of EZ. Indeed, in the land-based wind structure vision, 6,000 MW of wind is agreed on land. It will not have escaped the attention of the Minister that the spatial integration of wind turbines, particularly those very large ones, which are covered by the National Coordination Regulation, seems to be subject to very serious objections and a lot of unhappiness. A number of these proposals are likely to provide a good deal more support for this. Why isn't the minister for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u21	I am in favour of a very good procedure when you have to take these kind of far-reaching spatial decisions. That is why I am already very pleased that it has been decided to place much more of the role in the provinces rather than the heavy National Coordination Regulation. The Minister of EZ initiated this. I have been there. It is also the reason why I am so happy that we will have the Environment Act in the future, in which all parties are much more involved in the front to find out what the best forms are to represent something. At the same time, however, we have an energy agreement, in which we have made agreements. I still think it is important that this is achieved in a good way and on the basis of good support. It will not always have support, because this type of project is too far-reaching. However, adjusting the standard means that the 6,000 MW is not feasible. I don't know if that's gonna increase the acceptance. One may be pleased that something is not going to happen, but I do not see why it is going to increase acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u22	Then the motion to part No. 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u23	You can hold on very stubbornly to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u24	Now we are going to have a discussion, and that is not the intention. We've already had a general meeting. You asked for an explanation of the motion and you received it. You do not agree with that, but that makes it clear that you are voting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u25	Actually, there's a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u26	Well, then we'll move on to the motion in part no. 25!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u27	Mr. Chairman. That is the Veldman/Bisschop motion, which concerns the Oudebildtdijk and Nieuwebildtdijk. I have already sent a letter to the Chamber about this because there were concerns about both dikes and the fact that the area would be closed. I'm dissuading the motion. The minister of OCW, together with me, has identified both dikes as a protected face after positive advice from the Deputy States of Friesland and the Council of Culture. All the interests involved have been weighed up. The indication does not mean that nothing is allowed anymore; I think this is a very important point. The destination plan offers a lot of space for developments in a responsible manner. The board judge confirmed that. So there's no reason to withdraw the lead. In future cases, we will, of course, be careful with all the interests involved, as requested in the motion. The Cultural Heritage Agency is prepared to work with municipalities and the agricultural sector on a protocol on how to deal with developments in the agricultural sector in protected areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u28	Mr Veldman, do you have an explanatory question on the Minister's assessment of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u29	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. The minister said there's going to be work on a protocol. That may lead to different insights. This raises the question as to why the Minister is dissuading this motion, as I request that the designation be reconsidered. I can imagine that, when such a protocol is being worked on, there might be another way of weighing it up. I think it would be appropriate to rethink it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u30	I'd like to do it the other way around. A decision was taken by the Minister of OCW, who is responsible for this. There have been positive opinions from GS Friesland and the Culture Council and all interests have already been considered. The decision has therefore been taken. Then there was a clue. Inside that clue, we think there's a lot of space. There are concerns in the area and I can imagine anything if people are part of a protected village face at once. We believe that we can remove a large part of these concerns by indicating how you can regulate protocolably what is and what is not space. The withdrawal of the designation is not for me, but for the Minister of OCW, even though I know that this motion addresses the government. Secondly, I consider it undesirable to withdraw the designation because careful decision-making has taken place. However, we would like to address the concerns of Members Veldman and Bishop, so that we can see how we can make clear what the space is for the various parties in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u31	I haven't heard a judgment, unless I've listened badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u32	I told you at the beginning that I'm deceiving the motion. I think I'm clear on that, because I always start with my judgment and then keep my story. If someone then dreams away, at least my advice on the front has been clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u33	I got it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u34	I've dissuaded all four so far, so I'm pretty consistent. I'll come to the motion in part No. 26 over the ladder sustainable urbanization. I just heard the new rules in an earlier debate. I can accept or accept the motion because I have already indicated that I want to get to work on it. I can agree with the content. In addition to adapting the ladder sustainable urbanisation, including the clarification of definitions, I also want to make extensive use of a good implementation of the modified ladder. The current hand-out will be thoroughly reviewed, so that it will also include best practices. Provinces and municipalities will be involved. A helpdesk will be set up and a communication plan will be drawn up. I also want to make arrangements with IPO and VNG to see how we can handle the ladder in practice. All this contributes to the optimization that the Chamber is now asking for and why it has asked for in the past, as Mr Veldman said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u35	We all have to get used to the new rules. If I say now that the Minister is taking over the motion, we can't ask any more questions about it. I shall therefore first give the floor to Mr Veldman so that he can ask for something more on the substance of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u36	The Minister just indicated that Mr Smaling's motion was irrelevant because there was a change. In this motion, she actually confirms what I just said in my interruption to Mrs Cegerek, namely that everything is happening. What the motion calls for, the Minister is already working on it. I therefore regard the motion as superfluous, but I hear the Minister now saying that she is taking over, and she could actually say that the motion is superfluous or irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u37	In my opinion, the appointment of "unnecessary" is no longer part of the rules of the game. I understand it must be taken over or dissuaded at the moment. As far as Mr Smaling's motion is concerned, it was about the knowledge platform and it no longer exists, so that was my reason to discourage the motion. If Mrs Cegerek wants to withdraw the motion herself, I am fine with it and I will hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u38	Before any misunderstanding arises: it may indeed be up to you to say that you consider the motion superfluous and therefore wish to discourage it. You can also say that you like the motion, and that is why you want to take her over. So what you're doing is up to you. However, it is not the case that that one category would have escaped you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u39	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u40	I think the Minister's opinion was very clear: she wants to take over this motion. So there's going to be a plan of action, and I'm very happy about that. And according to the new rules: taking over is taking over. Let's stick to that. Unfortunately, today is not Mr Veldman's day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u41	That's not the point. I was concerned that I wanted to give room for discussion before I found that the Minister took over this motion, after asking Members if any of them would object. But we've had that discussion now. That is why I note that the Minister has indicated that she has tabled this motion, the Cegerek motion in part No. 26 (33118), wants to take over. Does any of the Members present oppose this? I note that this is not the case. From this moment on, this motion, which the Minister has taken over, will no longer be a separate subject of the debate and will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will make sure that I have more instruments at my disposal. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 27 by Mr Madlener on asylum seekers' centres and the Crisis and Recovery Act. I must advise against this motion, because the government and this Chamber have recently established by majority that we are going to receive asylum seekers when we believe they are entitled to do so. We need places in the country for that. This should often be organised in a reasonably short time. I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 28 by Mr Madlener is about wind turbines. Mr Madlener thinks it is undesirable. I also advise against this motion. The government policy is defined in the Wind on land structural vision. In 2020 there will be 6,000 MW. It is also EU policy and 14% of renewable energy by 2020 is set out in the Energy Agreement. I don't think I need to give any more reasons. Mr Madlener is aware of my considerations. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u43	Mr Madlener now has a technical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u44	Yes. My question would be whether the Minister is aware that wind turbines cause a lot of nuisance and that they also cost a lot of subsidy, and that they are not really running on wind but on subsidy? They are very loss-making and they are causing a great deal of suffering to people. For those two reasons, we really shouldn't want them at all, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u45	Windmills cause nuisance and windmills also receive a large part of the subsidy. I am not conducting the energy debates, but as I understand it, the amount of subsidy will also decrease over the years. The Netherlands has the task of organising a certain amount of renewable energy. Since the Netherlands is a rather flat country, unfortunately we cannot place dams in fast-flowing rivers like in other countries, with which we could easily fulfil our mission. We are at the mercy of the more complex tasks, such as the installation of windmills, solar panels and so on. I am also aware that they take up a great deal of space and that they cannot rely on a great deal of support, but at the same time we do need them in order to achieve our energy balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-15.u46	I thank the Minister for her input and presence. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
