ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and also the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Minister is prepared to replace the Secretary of State who is in Luxembourg for very valid reasons and is monitoring the competitive position of Schiphol. That's what we told her through our motion. We were shocked this week by the reports about the airline TUIfly that people behave misbehaved in planes. They fight, they amok, they scare people and they threaten and abuse the staff. Anyone who has been in a small room with a lot of people and certainly anyone who has ever flown can imagine that this is absolutely not pleasant. It seems that people who have done this once do this more often. The trade unions have called for additional measures and, above all, more stringent measures. It should be possible for there to be a blacklist with the people who do this. Airlines can then agree among themselves that these people are no longer allowed. I can imagine something about that call. That's why I'm asking what the cabinet's like. Can the Minister imagine that it would be terrible for passengers and for staff if something like this were to happen? Can the sector already put together a blacklist? Are companies now allowed to share data or should legislation be introduced so that those involved can be excluded from aircraft? What happens to someone who gets stuck in a plane? Can he just walk around again and get on a train? Safety on the track is also under discussion. What can we do at this point? How does the Minister view the trade unions' call for additional measures and more stringent measures? What about the damage? Is there any legal provision for this damage to be recovered? Such behaviour leads to a lot of delay and a lot of damage. That's not only bad for those involved, but also for the airlines this is something you shouldn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. I very much agree with Mr Van Helvert that it can be extremely frightening when people behave badly on an airplane. You can see an increase in nuisance caused by passengers on board aircraft. That's a real concern among the pilots and the cabin crew. In the recent case, the other passengers were really hurt. They were on their way to a holiday or came back from it. It doesn't matter now. The plane had to swerve and the passengers had to stay overnight in a hotel. Those people are duped, and it costs money. The first question was whether something was arranged for this. We have the 1963 Tokyo Convention. On this basis, there are appropriate measures and there is always jurisdiction to prosecute a passenger. In this case it is a device registered in the Netherlands and the Netherlands can do so. It has also been indicated that there will be a return declaration. My second comment is that the increase in incidents is about smoking and drinking. Smoking isn't allowed on board and when people drink too much, they're gonna misbehave. Airlines can prevent these incidents if they are better prepared and cooperate well with ground personnel. There's a world to win. The third question was whether a blacklist should be allowed. Yeah, TUIfly works with a blacklist, and so does KLM. There is a system in which passengers first get a kind of yellow card in the event of a light offence. After that, they are addressed for a number of years. If they're misbehaving again, they can't be on board for five years. The same applies to people who are seriously misbehaving. However, this information must not be shared by companies. European rules stand in the way of this. So far, those airlines with their own blacklists have been able to get out of the way. What happens then? Can the damage be recovered? On the basis of Dutch law, yes, but the question is whether there is anything to tell someone who has behaved so badly. Legally, I can do it. What is the government's position on the trade union appeal? In itself, like Mr Van Helvert, we agree that this is totally undesirable. Aso passengers scare people, make them feel unsafe and make the work impossible. In its regular contacts with the airlines, the Secretary of State will inform the airlines themselves as a result of this incident if they need more opportunities in response to this type of incident. We can then consider whether this should lead to new initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thanks for the answer. I hear there's been legislation since 1963. I am very pleased with that, but we have seen the number of incidents growing from 400 to 700 in 2010. Now it's grown again. We must therefore ask ourselves whether the existing legislation is sufficient. The Secretary of State is now in Luxembourg at the Transport Council. I understand that European regulation prevents airlines from sharing those blacklists among themselves, whereas that is what you should want. A passenger does not necessarily go with one particular airline, but chooses the airline that has the best product for him at that time with the right destination. The airlines should therefore be able to share this information among themselves. In his appeal, the trade union also says that this is at least a European and perhaps even a bigger problem. Is it still possible to tell the Secretary of State that she should not only defend the interests of Schiphol in Luxembourg, but should also take this with her so that we can settle this European problem? How does the cabinet view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-2.u5	On the first point, Mr Van Helvert is right: the 1963 treaty provides a basis for jurisdiction, but the Netherlands believes that it can be done better. A Amending Protocol to the Tokyo Convention has been negotiated. In the coming period, it must be clear whether enough countries will succeed in getting them behind it. That would make it easier to prosecute people who are so misbehaved. In itself, the cabinet is not opposed to broadening the possibilities of a blacklist. We welcome the fact that airlines use such a list themselves. We believe that the main way of achieving this is to combat the lighter but extremely burdensome offences more effectively. As I have already promised, the Secretary of State will engage with the airlines. It will inform there whether and, if so, in what form there is a need for further regulation. If that is the case, it will share it with the Chamber and will examine what new initiatives this should lead to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thank you for answering the questions.
