ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. I thank your Chamber for being able to deal with this bill as well. Two weeks after we were able to talk here about the repair law on income distribution, we can now talk about the more comprehensive law on the lease market. I know that the landlords, in particular the housing corporations, very much appreciate the increase in rent on 1 July and the timely announcement that the Chamber will be able to clarify this bill tonight. Before going into the specific questions, I would like to give a slightly broader explanation of the bottlenecks in the housing market and the measures taken by the cabinet, because most of you have also addressed them. When this cabinet took office, we found a large number of distorted situations in the housing market, which we tried to tackle with a large number of laws. On the sales side we found a situation of very bloated prices, high private debt, underwater problems and a period of difficult financing of mortgages. That is why we have taken measures to bring the loan to value back to sound proportions. Furthermore, I call it paying off mortgages again and converting deductibility into the highest tax base in a reduction in income tax. In this way, we have gradually tackled the biggest imbalances in the market for sale. On the rental market the problems we encountered were: a serious lack of flow and also housing corporations that... the good not too much... had in too many cases.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This has led to a parliamentary inquiry. The rental market has also been affected, with an income-dependent rent increase, with an adjustment of the housing valuation system and with a Housing Act that brings housing corporations back to their core role, namely social housing, and strengthens supervision. In order to achieve these measures, we have fortunately been able to find majorities in varying situations. I would again like to express my appreciation for the parties who supported the housing agreement at the time. Other legislation has often also received the support of other parties, because broad political sentiment was and still is in a number of areas that called for an approach to the distorted situation, which had often arisen in decades. The law now before us concerns part of the last outstanding commitment from the housing agreement. It agreed that the cabinet would come up with a proposal for a rent-sum approach and consult all the parties involved in the housing market for this purpose. That took a little longer than I had initially hoped, but just over a year ago, Aedes and the House Union were able to conclude a social lease agreement with each other. Unfortunately, other parties did not take part in this. That social lease agreement was the reason for the cabinet to say that we are going to agree to a number of framework conditions in legislation. That was also the request of both parties. We can see some points in this respect in order to fulfil this commitment in the housing agreement, but also in order to improve the functioning of the rental market. The housing agreement between Aedes and the Woonbond contained an agreement on the level and form of the rent and contained the fact that it was a problem and the ambition to come up with proposals together. But to this day, both sides have not agreed on the content. That was a reason for the cabinet to come up with its own proposals. After all, the problem is so important that we cannot abandon it. For the expensive crooks, the low-income group living relatively expensive, we have introduced the "appropriate allocation" in the Housing Act. This is the obligation for corporations to allocate affordable housing to people below the rental surcharge limit in at least 95% of the cases. So these are houses below the capping limit. For the cheap skeptics, the proposal before us today contains an income-dependent rent increase. When the cabinet came up with that more than three years ago, it met quite a bit of opposition, including from the corporation world. However, I can see that a large number of corporations with the knowledge of today say that it helps them to promote the flow of people with higher incomes. It also provides them with additional income that can be used for the target group. At the same time, the law proposes to allow temporary leases under strict conditions. A number of Members have asked why we are doing this. The reason that we do so in this law is that the introduction of temporary leases can also make an important contribution to the flow. This brings me back to the central problem of the rental market, which I outlined at the beginning. Moreover, the desire to offer temporary leases in a number of cases has long been expressed by both the political and the residential world. In 2012, the House of Representatives adopted a motion from the CDA and the Christian Union asking the Cabinet to identify the possibilities for granting temporary leases in a responsible manner. On this basis, we have consulted the sector and made the proposals as they stand. These are partly targeted at special target groups and partly at the rental sector as a whole. I will go into this further when I answer the questions. The need for temporary leases came to light again a few months ago when the cabinet concluded an administrative agreement with the Association of Dutch Municipalities on the housing of status holders. It has been agreed that a subsidy scheme will be set up for sober, independent living space. Aedes, who was not a co-signatory of the administrative agreement but was consulted on its feasibility, then expressed the wish to use temporary rental contracts with a maximum duration of five years for the independent living space. This gives the corporations the opportunity to build residential complexes that are first offered in the form of independent living space, but may later be converted into independent living space in order to meet a demand at that time. In the opinion of the Cabinet, the package as a whole provides a balanced boost to the flow, while maintaining adequate guarantees of affordability and rent protection. The removal of loose parts would result in too much violence on the part of the tenant, or in insufficient protection of the tenant. Separate parts of the cabinet would not want to submit a bill to the Chamber. In combination with each other, the cabinet considers this a responsible package. I will answer the questions of the various spokesmen in a number of chapters. The first chapter will deal with questions on how to deal with the distortion of living. Then I will go into the questions that have been asked about the completion of the rent. Next come the questions about the temporary rental contracts and finally the various other questions that have been asked about the functioning of the housing market. I will start with the questions that have been asked about how to deal with the skewing. Mr Flierman asked about the income effects of the measures now under way. During the introduction of the income-dependent rent increase, extensive purchasing power calculations were made. A very important component is that the rent increases for the rental surcharge recipients, people in the lowest income category, are largely offset by the rent surcharge. As a result, we were able to show that 90% of the rental surcharge recipients would have an annual income effect of less than 0.1%. For the other categories of income, the income effects of a slightly ascending nature are, of course, the highest income effect for the highest income category. After all, the intention is to show the flow incentive there. The legislative proposal now before us means that for the lowest incomes the rent increase is on average moderate, from inflation plus 1.5% to average inflation plus 1%. In individual cases, the effects may be more positive or negative than under the existing income-dependent rent increase, because the agreement between Aedes and the Housing Association means that there may be higher rent increases than inflation plus 1,5% if the rent is less than 80% of the allowed maximum reasonable rent. In that case, the rent increase could be 2.5%. That's higher than it's possible right now. On the other hand, the rent increase between 80% maximum reasonable rent and 100% maximum reasonable rent is equal to inflation. This is lower than possible under current legislation. Back to Mr Flierman's question: on average, the purchasing power of the lowest incomes improves compared to the current situation, but for those who rent relatively cheaply, there will be a slightly higher purchasing power effect in individual cases. Mr Flierman also asked to address the question of why a tax variant was not chosen, for example a rent tax. The government's consideration is that it would mean a substantial additional tax for tenants, landlords and the Tax Administration. If you want to enter a fully fiscalized variant, you need tax information from all tenants. These are very large numbers of people who, to a large extent, have to report themselves, which is not the case now. In addition, the Tax Office will have to have a register of rentals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u2	I believe that not only the President, but also the Minister, Mr Flierman, confuses Mr Pijlman. As far as I know, questions about the taxing of the rental system have been mainly raised by Mr Pijlman, although I see him now showing that he did not ask these questions either. Then there's some confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u3	In that case, the Minister sins in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u4	If the questions have not been asked, then I simply end this part of the answer why the tax variant was not chosen. In essence, this variant is very complicated for all interested parties. Mr Flierman asked how the evaluation will deal with the results of the income-dependent rent increase. Of course, I can only pre-sort a little bit, because we are doing an evaluation to seriously see if there is any reason to make adjustments and what adjustments. Of course, I know what parameters we can influence. In the past, proposals have been made for a higher income-dependent rent increase. My predecessor Donner once dealt with a bill which applied inflation plus 5% for the higher income categories, instead of inflation plus 4% that we now have. The government agreement also originally included a higher rent increase. It's very plausible, but we're gonna take a good look at the evaluation... that as the income-dependent part of the rent increase is higher, the incentive effect will also be greater. Another parameter that can be turned, and what is actually happening with this law, relates to the categories of income that we use. With this bill, we are taking a step backwards from three to two categories of income. That simplifies things, but also makes it more coarser. In the Lower House it has been suggested to further differentiate in the form of the distance between the actual rent and the maximum allowed rent. I will respond later to Mr Schalk's questions, but finally, you could also differentiate by household type. That is what is happening in this law to some extent. So there are a lot of buttons that can be turned on. This is also a good reason to carry out the evaluation, but the evaluation must show which choices are obvious. Mr Flierman asked about the observation that in the WoonResearch, published last week, the share of cheap skeptics has decreased, while I indicated in an interview that not all measures have yet been taken in the investigation. He's asking if that's gonna happen in the future. I meant that the WoonResearch contains figures until May 2015, when we know that a number of measures have since either been continued or introduced new. For example, a continued measure is that the income-dependent rent increase was also applied in 2015. A measure on appropriate allocation was also introduced in 2015. These are both measures that I believe will have an effect, one on the expensive living crooked, the other on the cheap living crooked, but those effects are not yet fully or completely in this Housing Survey. We will certainly include them in the next Housing Research and, where possible, in the interim State of the Housing Market and the State of Housing which I send to the Chamber every year. Mr Pijlman asked whether the most important explanation for the lack of flow from the rental sector is the fact that it is difficult for people with a flexible contract, or an uncertain income, to obtain a mortgage. The phenomenon of skewing is quite a constant in the political debate on the Dutch social rental sector. In the visions and policies of my predecessors, actually up to twenty years ago, it was said quite constantly that it was a pity that a significant group of people with a higher income still lived in a social housing unit. Those reports date back to a time before the large-scale rise of thezzp'er. I'm sure you can't just say that this is the main statement. It is rather embedded in a system in which housing corporations happily offer excellent housing for a reasonable rent, but in which it is often unattractive for the individual tenant to make the move to the free sector because he finds that he lives well for a very reasonable rent. If he makes a switch for a slightly higher rent, the quality of living doesn't increase that much. That was the reason for me to introduce the income-dependent rent increase. Mr Pijlman has absolutely a point to make when he says that the large-scale emergence ofzzp'ers is an important challenge for the mortgage market. In the case of the national mortgage guarantee, self-employment is not a hard barrier, but it is required that there is sufficient income for three years. I think this is a sensible safety standard, because you do not want to burden people with irresponsible funding. In addition, fortunately, there is now a number of initiatives by temporary employment agencies together with mortgage providers, who have found that a significant group of people with flex contracts are indeed creditworthy when it comes to a mortgage. They have now also developed tailor-made products for this purpose. However, it is still a subject that has my attention. Mr Pijlman asked if we have a picture of how many tenants with a higher income really flow to either free sector rental or buy. Also for the answer to that question, the WoonResearch that came out last week is helping. During the research period, 111,000 households made the step from the regulated rental house of higher incomes, i.e. above the target population of social housing. Of these, about three quarters have moved to the purchasing sector and just over a quarter to the free sector rental sector. We will continue to monitor these figures carefully in the upcoming Housing Studies. In the evaluation specifically of the income-dependent rent increase that the Chamber gets for the summer, I hope to be able to provide an even clearer insight into the precise motivation for this move. Mr Pijlman asks whether I can indicate more numerically for the future what flow rate I expect. If I am to give figures to the Chamber, I must be able to support them properly, but I do not have either a model calculation or a different basis for giving reliable figures. I have the historical data and clear signals from the landlords' world, and I draw attention to the support of Aedes for the legislative proposal as a whole, but also for the income-dependent component and temporary leases under conditions that this is going to help them, but that is not enough to give truly reliable numerical information. We are certainly doing the evaluations we are doing to see whether the desired results are being achieved and whether there is a need to tighten up policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u5	I understand that the Minister cannot now say: this is it. You take a number of measures and you have expectations of them. What are the expectations, also aimed at the middle segment of rental housing that is largely still to be built?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u6	I certainly expect this to increase. I base that on, for example, Capital Value's recent research. This shows that interest among foreign investors is very high. I base it further on the housing market needs studies we have done from the Ministry together with Aedes and Bouwend Nederland. This shows that the demand for medium-term rentals is increasing. I also base it on working visits that I make every week and where I also hear in conversations with municipalities, tenant organisations, investors, and housing corporations that people recognize the need for this free sector segment. The next step to exactly how much I can't make founded. I do violence to the truth when I make a numerical attempt at it. Mr Pijlman also asked why large families are excluded from the income-dependent rent increase and whether this does not lead to more bureaucracy. The consideration to make an exception in this law, contrary to the previous law, for the income-dependent rent increase, is that we follow the affordability, among other things, through the figures of the Nibud. Without having an absolute standard now, the Nibud has a number of rules of thumb to determine whether living and other necessary expenses are to be borne by different incomes. The Nibud study shows that for families with multiple children the affordability is really compromised, just around the income limit of €38.000. To help that group, in this law we specifically targeted the exception on that group. Does that create a lot of bureaucracy for corporations? This data is very good to be supplied by the Tax Administration automatically. That is a question of combining data from the Municipal Basic Administration around the number of people registered at one address with data on the taxable income of the Tax Administration. This means that the bureaucracy for housing corporations is not increasing. They just get the signal that they can or can't apply the rent increase. The Tax Administration can carry out this administratively. Mr Pijlman also asked how to deal with income declines, for example in the situation of a self-employed person with a variable income. The lease market is the same method as already contained in the law on income-dependent rent increases. This method means that if a tenant can prove that income in the current year has fallen to below the level for which an income-dependent rent increase can be applied, he can go to the landlord and say: you have, although from the Tax Administration, which always works on the basis of two years ago, that higher income has been passed on, but I can show by means of pay slips or data from benefit agencies that I am now under it. I therefore ask you not to apply the income-dependent rent increase over the current year. Moreover, if the income-dependent rent increase has increased the rent to above the rental surcharge limit, it may be asked to bring the rent below that limit so that the right to rent payment can come back into force. Mr Lintmeijer asked if I knew the figures on the expensive crooked living and whether I share the concerns about this. I'm sure I know those numbers, because the housing research is done by my ministry. The CBS is an important data provider. The increase in the expensive skewed habitation is a very undesirable development. That is why I have included in the Housing Act the appropriate allocation as a mandatory measure. I know that housing corporations are not enthusiastic about this, because they are now legally forced to assign homes below the capping limit to people with a rent allowance, in 95% of the cases. However, this development is so worrying that I felt I should take this measure. The law now before us also helps to deal with the expensive crooked living. The average rent increase for the lowest incomes is moderated: from inflation plus 1.5% to inflation plus 1%, and also the higher rent increases in rental harmonisation, another important cause of the more expensive mislocation, will be limited by this law, because the harmonisation of rent is part of the rent sum limited to inflation plus 1%. This is without prejudice to the fact that an important cause of the increasingly expensive skewing is that housing associations have mainly built very expensively in recent years. We know that from other sources. For years, on average, only the 142 housing valuation points were built, which is the limit for social housing on the basis of the housing valuation system. On average, only expensive houses were added while, if you look at the demand of the target group, you see an increase in single and double households. The available stock of housing corporations consists, to a very large extent, of 40%, of single-family homes, which undoubtedly still meet a demand, but which are largely inhabited by single- and double-family households. In the case of new buildings, but also in the case of portfolio management, corporations have to consider whether the stock is actually in line with the demand for cheap housing. It can also mean selling part of your expensive stock and investing the proceeds in either improving the existing stock, or in adding just those cheap homes. The appropriate allocation also gives an incentive, because if you can't ask for more than the capping limit, you as a landlord make the balancing: is the composition of my stock correct and in what way do I want to build up? Mr Schouwenaar asked whether it was right to exclude pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u7	I would like to pick up on that expensive crooked living, because that was also a theme in my contribution. The Minister clearly states that he thinks that these instruments will provide sufficient incentives to reverse this trend. At the same time, the increase in the number of expensive skewers is really substantial if you look at the recent figures and the WoonResearch only takes place once every three years. How is the Minister going to keep his finger on the pulse as to whether the measures are sufficient to break that trend?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u8	In addition to the WoonResearch, we publish annually about the state of the housing market and the state of housing. Those figures are less complete, so they will always be indicative. However, the Housing Research is a very large research project. But along that route, we keep the finger on the wrist. Developments in the housing market are generally rather slow. The rate of change in the social rental sector is about 8%. I have high expectations of appropriate allocation. There has been quite a strong reaction to this; that also illustrates that the landlords expect it to have a significant impact. However, it will be done step by step. This also applies, of course, to the rent-sum approach: although it reduces the jumps in harmonization, it only happens when a house is released.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u9	It is clear that the iron cannot be broken with hands, especially in the housing market. At the same time, it is difficult to conclude on the basis of figures published annually how the trend is going. In view of the substantial increase, it is not a little bit, but we are really seeing a huge increase, I would like to ask the Minister whether he considers it possible to inform the Chamber of the way this is developing at the time of the annual monitoring, or at any other time. This is so that we do not have to say to each other afterwards, in three years' time, that we could have distilled it out of the numbers. I understand that there will not be new measures immediately next year, but that is not my question either. However, this is such a worrying trend that I want to get a good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u10	I have the same wish, because affordability is also one of the spearheads of the cabinet. We also gave them to municipalities, tenants and housing corporations for making the performance agreements. So we monitor the affordability every year. I would like to point out to the House Research that only at these times is there very large-scale and statistically very reliable information. However, we monitor affordability annually.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u11	Exactly. That of affordability is a good thing, but I would like to focus on the trend of expensive skeptical housing, otherwise we are dealing with figures, but we are not talking about that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u12	Mrs. Bikker has the same information as I do. The only conditions are the availability and reliability of the data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u13	I hear the Minister say that he is coming before the summer with an evaluation of the income-dependent rent increase. Is that right? Does he then go into the question of the skewing problem again in this evaluation? Perhaps he will consider and take action if there is a problem there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u14	If the evaluation gives rise to another turning of buttons, I will certainly make proposals to that effect. The evaluation is more precise, at least that is what we are going to try, on the move ments and their motivations. So that's where it adds something to the Housing Research. Again, we are not doing that evaluation as an art for art, but in order, if necessary, to tighten up policy. Mr Schouwenaar asked whether the exception for pensioners was logical. He also asked about the exception for larger families. I have just answered that question in the direction of Mr Pijlman. When it comes to pensioners, the balance is that the possibilities for pensioners to move on to the purchasing sector are demonstrably smaller than for young people, not because it is impossible to obtain a mortgage, but because the conditions, in particular the duration, make it much less attractive in many cases to take the step towards the purchasing sector. That was the reason for excluding this group, besides the large families, from the income-dependent rent increase. Mr Köhler once again opened the debate with me on what is a reasonable standard of living. He mentioned the example of someone with an income of €40,000 and a monthly rent of €700 and he asked why I now thought that was a cheap crook. The income limits we apply have been established, in consultation with the European Commission, on the basis of the consideration that a social security provision - social housing - is a social provision, specifically aimed at low incomes - must also be targeted in order to remain available. If you do not draw that limit, it will become priceless and impossible to have a stock of affordable rentals for the real target group. During our debate two weeks ago, I also indicated that I do not think it appropriate to centralise what would be a logical housing quote. I do not think that the use of a national percentage is appropriate for a free country where people can have their own preferences. However, I indicated that I would like to keep my finger on the pulse, particularly through the Nibud calculations route, if essential necessities are affordable. However, once again in the Woononderzoek, there is an important indication for the answer to Mr Köhler's question. The WoonResearch contains a comparison by income category of the housing ratios, i.e. the share of living expenses in total income, between homeowners and tenants. In this you can see how the housing ratio of a property owner, who has in fact voluntarily chosen to pay that housing ratio, relates to that of the tenant who, among other things with the legislation we are discussing today, still experiences part of the rent increase as a result of legal measures. That equation on pag. 65 of the WoonVerzoek, in case one wants to check it, show that the housing ratio of tenants is consistently below or at its highest at the level of the purchase ratio, and for the lowest incomes it is always below the purchase ratio. This shows, therefore, that people who voluntarily opt for housing expenditure in the form of a house of sale voluntarily choose to do so at a level that is generally above the rent ratio and is generally equal to the rent ratio in the case of higher incomes. You don't actually see anywhere in that chart that the rental quote is higher than the purchase quote. Without applying a standard now: the behaviour of people themselves shows that rental and purchase quotes do not run counter to each other and that the rent quotes are consistently below the purchase quotes at the lowest incomes. Mrs Bikker asked me if the increase in expensive crooked living is a communicating vessel with cheap crooked living. I don't think you can put it that way, but you can say that the causes are in the same line. At the beginning of my speech, I spoke about this. Housing corporations generally offer very good housing for attractive rents and have been building ever better and therefore more expensive homes in recent years. This leads people on high incomes to a low degree of mobility because they find it difficult for them to find comparable quality elsewhere for the rent they pay. That's how the cheap living crooked. The process of increasing quality building, but also increasing the cost of housing, leads at the same time to a reduction in the supply of very affordable housing for low-income people. That is why, as I just outlined, with the mandatory imposition of appropriate allocation, which has major consequences for the earning capacity of existing stock of housing corporations, I really want to steer: make the existing stock more affordable, and make sure that it is also affordable stock in the additions. Where necessary, this could mean that more expensive rentals would be disposed of. Indeed, it could be a form of financing and the proceeds would be reinvested in affordable rentals. I say to Mrs Bikker that this law, by restricting harmonisation and reducing the average rent increase to inflation plus 1, naturally also contributes to affordability, especially for the lowest incomes. Mr Schalk asked me to comment on the income position of a earner. He dealt with a point that I know is a concern of his party, the fact that a single earner has less net left than two earners who collectively earn the same income as that one earner. His question was whether a further exception could be made to the income-dependent rent increase for this target group. First of all, I make a political assessment, which means that the cabinet wants to promote work and does so by reducing, for example, the transferable tax discount, which actually makes it more attractive for a partner to start working. If you take a tax measure that makes it attractive for a partner to work, an inevitable reflection is that the tax position will become less attractive if it does not. I realise that we are simply politically different in this respect, but these are two sides of the same coin. Another part of the explanation for this difference is simply the progress in our tax system. The rate for a single earner, or indeed for each earner, is applied to that person's income, and at a progressive rate this means that the one income of, for example, €40,000 is actually taxed more heavily than two incomes of €20,000. Now, of course, there are sometimes thoughts about a flat tax. The cabinet didn't choose that. Without such a flat tax, you keep this difference in a progressive system. That is the political balance. Then there is also a technical consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u15	I was thinking: let me get back to that political point. Perhaps you should say that the SGP is a little more liberal than the Minister, in the sense that you could say: let such a family find out for themselves whether they are both going to work, yes or no. We should not force this choice and not impose it. Let people do that themselves would be my thought. In addition, I have shown in my speech that the problem exists not only with the single earner, but also with two earners who, for example, do not earn fifty-fifty, but €30,000 and €10,000. You'll get a whole different picture. At fifty-fifty, both €20,000, they pay €2,000 tax. If one earns €30,000 and the other earns €10,000, they already pay €6,500 tax. It seems to me that they will end up in a very different category in terms of cheap or expensive housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u16	Mr Schalk, will you answer your question? Was this a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u17	Let me put it this way: I tried to make it clear through my speech that it is wider than just the single earner. Perhaps the Minister would also like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u18	The first liberal question of conscience was whether you should not leave it to people themselves whether they are one or two earners. My answer to that is: yes, but that would lead to the conclusion that you would not have to introduce a transferable tax rebate at all, because that would transfer something to someone who does not earn money and thus create another injustice against the single living alone earner. The choice of the transferable tax rebate has already created a distortion. The cabinet gradually builds it. I respect that Mr Schalk makes a different assessment, but we found that incentive. Mr Schalk is right to say that between the 100% single earner and the fifty-fifty two earner with almost the same income, there is still a great deal of room for other divisions. If you map the net income, you see a sliding scale where the optimal tax situation is achieved in the fifty-fifty distribution. Statistically, the Dutch household is now one and a half earners, so that would mean a 25/75 distribution. It's about a net between the two. This immediately leads to the answer to Mr Schalk's more technical question or the possibility under C, Article 252a (6) to designate groups under ministerial rules which are excluded from the income-dependent rent increase offers a link here. This article was inserted by amendment of the Christian Union in the Lower House in order to be able to exclude AWBZ beneficiaries from the income-dependent rent increase. We can define that group well, because there is an indication for that; a yes/no situation is emerging. A differentiation between one and two earners is not to be made black and white because of the sliding scale, on which Mr Schalk and I agree. What right would I have in a ministerial arrangement to draw the line at the level of the distribution 100% compared to 0% or 90% compared to 10%? Then any division is debatable. I cannot put that in a neutral, objective way in a ministerial arrangement. That's the technical side. I have just indicated that we are also politically different about the desirability of such a route. Mr Schalk asked whether the Tax Administration could not apply the income-dependent rent increase to net income rather than taxable income. Income-dependent schemes are basically always based on taxable income. If you did that on the basis of the net income, you'd be destroying the effect you were just trying to achieve with your income-dependent scheme. Net income occurs after, for example, applying the transferable tax rebate. When you compare and compensate at the end of that calculation, you compensate for the effect you just wanted to achieve. That is why we are working on the taxable income, the beginning of the calculation. I hope I have answered the questions about how to deal with the distortion of living and the income-dependent rent increase and I am going to apply the rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u19	Mr Schalk has one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u20	I understand the Minister's reasoning. It's very complicated, especially when you look at the sliding scale. The Minister states that he has a problem with working with net incomes. Perhaps the problem is caused by the fact that we look at the taxes at individual income and at the rent of family income. Actually, you're confusing two greats, which might make the effect so negative. Can the minister still reflect on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u21	This observation is justified, but this is more common in income-dependent schemes. In general, they provide that essential necessities can continue to be paid for. Indeed, the government does not always use the individual concept or household concept in black and white, but the cut-off is that household concept in general is precisely along the lines of being accessible to essential necessities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u22	That €39,000 is a kind of border that has been chosen at the moment. The Minister has just said that this has been done on the basis of all kinds of calculations; that is about that social point. It is precisely by dealing with gross net differences in this way that a very large group is perhaps well below that social limit to be able to pay for these basic matters. I have given the example, I admit, that it was a sharp example of the fifty-fifty two-earner who has €40,000 in his pocket38 000 and the one-earner who only has €30,000 in his pocket. That earner must try to pay the same amenities for his family as those two earners with €8,000 less. I understand the political balance and so on, but this is going a long way. Wouldn't it be interesting to see if there are any better options? That was one of my questions, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u23	I am always prepared to look at Mr Schalk, as I have just pointed out to Mr Flierman, at the practical operation of the income-dependent rent increase. We always have an intention with that. We want to know if it works, and we also want to know if there are unintended effects. This also applies to purchasing power. I will immediately follow Mr Schalk when he asks if I want to keep my finger on the pulse where possible in the forthcoming evaluation and where necessary in additional investigations, whether affordability is not at stake, not only for the groups as defined now, but also for groups that can be defined differently. That brings me to a criterion on which Mr Schalk and I can agree, apart from the debate we just had on one and two earners. Guarding that affordability within decent limits always remains the concern of a Minister for Housing who is responsible for the social housing stock in the Netherlands. My proposal is that we take another critical look at this question in the evaluation. If, for example, there is an even sharper investigation, then I am always prepared to consider whether we can provide for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u24	Thank you. I will be glad to think about that in a moment and come back to it. The question is whether it really is necessary to look at this evaluation or whether it is asking for research anyway, because the figures are still unclear. I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u25	You still have a second term and a rematch to the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u26	I come to the questions about the application of the rent. Mr Flierman began by asking why a distinction is made between private landlords and social landlords when applying the rental fee and not with the landlord tax. The maximum rent increase proposed by this law, independently of the income-dependent component, is 2.5. That 2.5% is the maximum for both private landlords and housing corporations. The 4% income-dependent rent increase is also the same for both types of landlords. What is not the same for both groups is the handling of an average rent increase in inflation plus 1%. There are a number of considerations involved. The first is that the concept of "rental sum" is not properly applicable to private landlords. This is not the case for smaller landlords anyway, because there are so few changes there that in a year's time it will not be real to apply an average rent increase. In addition, we do not have, as is the case with housing corporations, a supervisor who is provided with the figures necessary to determine the rent price and who has a penalty tool to apply. That is why, even before my appointment as Minister, the concept of "rental fee" has been enshrined in the law, specifically for housing corporations. In the past, it has also occurred that the rent increase that applied to both housing corporations and private landlords was higher than the rent that the housing corporations were allowed to apply. This has been the case, for example, in the years 2005 and 2006. At that time, too, this happened with the motivation that an approved institution is specifically focused on a social task. It also has specific advantages for this: the state guarantee, cheap land generally made available by municipalities and separate legislation. In the past, therefore, it has already been chosen to apply a lower rent for this purpose. All in all, there are a number of reasons to make this distinction, not for the first time, and to apply it again in this case. Mr Lintmeijer asked about the urgency that I myself, but also Aedes, asked this Chamber, has to do with the introduction of this law. This is due to the fact that rent increases normally take place on 1 July and must be announced before 1 May. Two weeks ago we met here because for that rent increase the data must have been made available by the Tax Administration. That provision is now in effect. On the basis of that data, the housing corporations should then send that letter to the tenants. In doing so, it is again important for those housing corporations to know how this Chamber is judging this law tonight, because it affects exactly what rent increase they are allowed to include in that letter. I don't want to make a habit of it, but there's also some time pressure on this law tonight. Mr Lintmeijer asked whether it would not be obvious to introduce a form of rental regulation for the unregulated sector as well. Whether the housing is not regulated depends not so much on the property, as rentals below the social rental limit are also regulated if they are not owned by housing corporations. It concerns homes above the social rental limit, currently €710. In my opinion, it would be very unwise to apply price regulation there too, because this will immediately have a negative impact on investment. In the analysis of the housing market I already explained that the Netherlands has a very large social housing stock, but as a reverse of the coin an extremely small free sector stock. This is not good for the functioning of the housing market. That's not good for the flow. It is also not good for start-ups who do not have access to the social rental sector. Last week, the NVM announced the results of an investigation that showed that single people are still another group than Mr. Schalk's sole earner who are looking for a place to buy in one of the beloved cities that cannot actually pay. They are therefore very interested in rentals in the free sector, but that offer is again very small. Investors' interest has increased considerably. Those investors are, to a large extent, Dutch pension funds. Part of it is also foreign pension funds. Of course, they pay pensions from the proceeds of their investments. These pensions are already under pressure. When considering whether they invest their money in the Netherlands, in the past, the unequal playing field with housing corporations, which they experienced, was a reason to spend little money in rental homes. That argument does not play now or at least much less. If you were to introduce a new objection, the effect would be that the money would be drawn back to other countries or other investments, while we all share, even if I listen carefully to this Chamber, that we want more to be built in that middle-priced rental segment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u27	I fear that the problem is that there are two different issues that may be difficult to reconcile and in which the Minister makes a different political assessment than my group. Our main concern is that many people who are now at the top of the corporation side, let me just say it in simple words, now have very few opportunities to escape to the private sector. This is partly due to the fact that the segment is not that large and that little is being built. The Minister is right about that. In part, however, it is also because there is a price development going on that makes it almost impossible to succeed there, when you are just at the limit of low income and middle income. We see, in our view, that rents continue to grow apart. The value for money in that segment where that switch should take place is worse than in the better corporate market. I think we might come to some other conclusions on the basis of the facts. We would like to see this flow encouraged by the fact that the price steps are smaller between one part of the market and the other part. Whether this is at the expense of reinvesting the return that private landlords make on it depends on many more factors than only on any dampening of the rent development on that side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u28	The point of discussion is partly political and partly it is simply the free choice of investors. Mr Lintmeijer is right to point out that the cheap skeptic is involved in deciding whether to switch to the free sector and how much rent he is paying and how this rent will develop. Still, we're helping to narrow that difference with this law. This is one of those cheap crooks, so someone with a higher income. Under the current law with income-dependent rent increases, but also under this law, he will also be able to suffer a rent increase of inflation plus 4% in the housing corporation. In doing so, he does not suffer any deterioration if he moves to the free sector. That was precisely the purpose of that income-dependent rent increase. There is not so much a political difference of opinion about the effects of regulation in the free sector. The ABP, the PGGM, or any investor, makes the assessment: I have to pay my pensions; for that I have to invest my money profitably. Rentals are in principle an attractive category. Not so long ago, ABP was one of the largest housing rental companies in the Netherlands. That has been a number of years starting to withdraw money from the Dutch housing market, because it found that the supply of housing corporations and the competitive conditions with housing corporations, who borrowed money with a state guarantee and had cheap land, made it unattractive to invest in rental homes in the Netherlands. So the money went to England and Germany. I think that's socially undesirable. That is not so much a political consideration to me. I note that investors, pension funds, make calculations and come to a choice that I find detrimental to the Dutch housing market and the Dutch construction sector. The price regulation that we apply to housing corporations is motivated by the fact that the lowest incomes deserve additional protection, also on the basis of the constitutional mandate. However, the investment capacity of housing corporations is also being increased by additional measures: that cheap land and that state guarantee. Those are additional measures that we cannot endlessly extend to the free rental sector, because these additional measures will come at a price. All things considered, I say that price regulation in the social sector is acceptable, but does not extend it to the free sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u29	I note, then, that the Minister says that his concern about a capital flight is whether that effect is taking place or not is greater than the desire to achieve a more fluent transition between the regulated and the private sector, the unregulated sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u30	I do not agree with this summary. That smooth transition we try to achieve with the income-dependent rent increase. The years of inflation following rent increases in housing corporations made that difference so big, according to the tenant's position. I am a little more concerned than Mr Lintmeijer about this capital flight, because I have seen it all these years. I also understand very well what consideration pension funds make in a world in which they are constantly under attack about their returns. After all, they cannot properly explain to their pensioners that they invest in homes that do not yield sufficient returns to pay those pensions. A pension administrator is ultimately also addressed by in- and outside supervisors. They'll ask: why do you do that, you were sitting here to generate an attractive pension for us? I therefore consider the damage caused by such price regulation to be very serious. That's why I'm so fond of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u31	Minister, can you give an indication of how much longer you think you need to have for your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u32	My own speaking time will be about ten minutes. Furthermore, it is in your hands where the interruptions are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u33	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u34	Mr Schouwenaar asked why harmonisation and liberalization were included in the calculation of rents. That is the case, on the one hand, because that is the agreement in the social housing agreement. I'm not gonna take that over, but I think it's important, if there's such an agreement, to stay close to it. On the other hand, it makes the flow within the social rental sector easier, because the major leaps in harmonisation are severely limited. Older people, for example, who may want to free up a single-family home to go to an apartment in the social housing sector, are now also prevented from doing so by the leap in rent in liberalisation. Mr Schouwenaar is, of course, right in saying that liberalisation is discouraged by this measure. Thus, the rent-based approach is good for flow within the social rental sector, but not for flow from the social rental sector to the free sector. That is why I have indicated that, as a cabinet, we only wanted to present this bill with a number of additional measures to ensure that this transfer from the social sector to the free sector is also encouraged. Mr Verheijen, like Mr Köhler and Mr Lintmeijer, asked about the distinction between private landlords and housing corporations in the income-dependent rent increase. I have already given the technical justification that the rent is not applicable and that distinction has already been made in the past. Furthermore, there is a part of the character: appointment is appointment. When the landlord levy was introduced, I indicated that I would not affect the landlord's earning capacity, because such a levy is a major measure. The rent of inflation plus 1 reduces earning power. The housing corporations and the Housing Association themselves have agreed, so I have been relieved of my commitment not to limit it. Private landlords weren't at that table. So to them I am still bound by that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u35	The Minister is now saying, in summary, that the private landlords must also have additional earning capacity in order to be able to raise that landlord's tax. Doesn't that end at some point? That landlord's tax is approaching its peak. Additional rent increases have been collected for several years now, also by private landlords. You do not have to increase rents by 2.5% or 4% a year over inflation for this reason, while the landlord levy is no longer increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u36	The increase of the landlord's tax is fixed by this cabinet until 2017. A subsequent cabinet will have to decide on the period thereafter. This means that we also have to arrange the rental space for the year 2017. For the period thereafter, the estimates still include the landlord levy. If a subsequent cabinet wishes to take a different decision, it is in the order of democratic decision-making. It will then have to find funding for a very substantial amount. It is logical, however, that we should leave the state finances with a properly financed account after this period, so that the earning capacity on the landlords' side should be properly regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u37	I understand that argument. There is also no one here who has proposed to reduce the rents again, if the landlord's tax would possibly lapse. What matters to me is that the Minister says that the private landlords need that extra rent increase to cover that landlord's tax. So that ends at some point. According to the Minister's calculation, it runs until 2017. However, he is now using it as an argument to allow at least for the next five years..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He may be in favour of that, but that can't be to cover that landlord's tax. It'll be covered a long time ago. This is just an extra addition to earning capacity, or say to the profits, of the private landlords. The Minister may be in favour of that, but he simply has to say openly that that is his argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u38	There is also no end date in the law on the income-dependent rent increase. It states that a levy is introduced, which does not have to be financed entirely by rent increase. There were other possibilities, which were also used, such as saving heavily on own overhead and selling property that is not part of the core task. The space for rent increase was one of the possibilities. Even then, it was not said that this legal space would be terminated after a number of years, because it would limit very much the possibilities for future Cabinets. A subsequent cabinet can take new decisions in a government agreement on any tax, tax and expenditure. However, we should not commit ourselves in advance to the type of decisions it can make. Mr Köhler said that the Netherlands, in his opinion, has the highest rental rate in Europe and asked what my reaction was. The last comparative figures I have on living expenses date back to 2014 and in them the Netherlands took a middle position, with a rent ratio of 25.9% at that time. So we certainly weren't the most expensive. I don't have any more recent figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u39	Mr Köhler asked a question just at the time when the Minister wanted to say something about going to the table with the private rental sector. I am interested in this because he has also indicated that he has some of the feasibility problem in applying the rent-based approach. He also has a political point: price regulation is undesirable in this sector, given the position of investment companies and pension funds. This raises the question of who should take care of that middle-priced segment, between €700 and €1,000. If these investment companies and pension funds do not invest in them, the corporations should. However, the Minister also had doubts about their commitment. I believe that this was also due to the contribution of the government to the corporations, the lending system. Perhaps he would like to clarify that point. Who does care for the flow to that middle-priced segment if the investment companies and pension funds are not interested despite the fact that no price regulation has so far been declared applicable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u40	Pension funds and investors have not been interested in recent years. For a very long time there was a very large private rental segment in the Netherlands. They were not interested because they found that they were competing with housing corporations that had advantages along a number of routes that they did not have, such as cheaper land, very important, and low interest rates due to the State guarantees. In many places housing corporations also received the most attractive construction sites. That was a reason for investors to say: in the Netherlands we can either not find locations, or at a price that we do not compete with housing corporations, so we put our money into other housing markets. For a long time, until the House Act passed, housing corporations were also allowed to build free sector. If that had been the solution, we would not be talking about this problem here, because they did not do enough. This was the reason for the government to take a number of measures: the return of housing corporations to the social sector, the adjustment of the housing valuation system and income-dependent rent increases. But there were also stricter standards on the mortgage side, which means that a larger proportion of people want to rent at the beginning of the residential career. Several studies show that this need for medium-term rent is indeed increasing. Investors' investigations and conversations I have with them show that they also want to invest. So I have no concern that there is no willingness. What is the task now is to make sure that they actually build. The main obstacle they find is the availability of land, because traditional municipalities, the main publishers of land in the Netherlands, assign part of the land very affordable to housing corporations and leave the rest of the land for sale to project developers. In view of the need for medium-cost rentals, a segment of land for that third group, the middle income should also be reserved. In most municipalities this is also the largest group. A municipal government that wants to do justice to its inhabitants must, above all, do good for the land's allocation towards its inhabitants. Municipalities must therefore take that step towards making the land available. That's a message we're sending out extensively. From the Ministry we have launched a comprehensive information and support campaign towards municipalities, housing corporations and tenant organisations around the new Housing Act. We indicate: make sure that in the performance agreements, in the allocation of land, there is also attention to the average rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u41	Isn't the problem with the municipalities that they still have the ground for far too high amounts in the books, which they have to value if they want to meet this legitimate demand now? How does the Minister view this, in addition to the willingness that there may be from investors? Earlier, he mentioned that amount of 4 billion that would be available to invest in this segment. So what are the chances that we will overcome these barriers to actually achieve this new housing stock?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u42	Land debits are a reality for all housing market segments. Land made available for housing corporations is also well below the book value for which it was first foreseen. With properties in the desired locations in the Randstad it crawls back to the old levels, but not in a part of the Netherlands either. The problem that Mr Pijlman raises exists, but it exists at every destination of the land. This cannot prevent a municipality from making available that third segment, which will then be in between the housing corporation and the purchasing sector in terms of price. Moreover, I am not pessimistic about that either. Every week I speak with municipalities and housing corporations. Yesterday I was in the Amersfoort region, where I attended a meeting between municipalities, housing corporations and private investors. There was a very unanimous finding that there is indeed such a need in that region. There was an exchange of views on how we can complement each other here. What part does the housing corporation do, what part does the private investor do? Recently I have had such conversations in other municipalities. So that's going to be on the retina. The money is available; the investigation pointed to 5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u43	Well, well, well. That's even better. Can you give an indication of what this will yield in 2017? How many of these homes will be built?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u44	Mr Pijlman once again presents me with the dilemma that he is asking for concrete figures which, if I were to give them, would have to be based on a hard foundation. Looking back, I can see how the development of building permits for rental houses has increased in recent years. So that's pleasing. But I can't make a hard prediction about the years to come, except that it's very plausible that it's increasing further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u45	Arrowman, final.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u46	I can hardly imagine that, while you are running this whole policy and going on tour to convince everyone, you have no indication of what will be built from 2017. I will not hold you to it, but I would appreciate it for the discussion if we could have more insight into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u47	I think it is nice that Mr Pijlman will not hold me to that. But if we're gonna exchange numbers, I need to be able to do that properly so that he can keep me to it. In recent years, we have seen a growth in the middle-priced rental segment, so in that sense, combined with all the information I have just provided, partly on the basis of investigations and partly on the basis of conversations, there is no reason to be gloomy about it. But it would just hurt the truth if I started mentioning numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u48	Mrs Bikker, provided that your comment is in line with this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u49	The Minister has nothing to worry about. He has a positive vote. He's referring to the 5.5 billion. That is not a small amount on the shelf. But when I look at the research provided by Capital Value, I see that there is very clear concern that there is no increase in the number of rental homes, which is also due to the withdrawal of rental homes from the housing market and demolition. There is a concern that the total rental stock, especially in this segment, will not increase. How does the Minister refute these concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u50	It's not that I don't have any worries at all, because otherwise I wouldn't be taking this whole series of measures. It is true that a large part of these measures have just come into force. The new House Act has been in force since July 1st. We are now working on the tour in the Netherlands, but also to investors in the Netherlands and abroad, to explain how it works. That's where I get all those positive sounds. But the fact that I am standing here with you with a number of measures to further promote the flow, I do so because I think that the problem is so big that I should not sit back. I am not without concern, but I am very positive that developments will go in the right direction when we take these measures, because both the investigations and the information provided by investors indicate that they need them and that they want to invest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u51	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u52	Then the next concern remains for me. If it says that 5 billion is available, then there is enough money, but there is a shortage in the housing market. The investors are wondering if that's gonna work. At what point does the Minister come back to give a clear insight into this? In my opinion, this concern is very widespread.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u53	Every year, through the State of the Housing Market, I provide information on developments over the past year, and I will continue to do so. The only point I cannot foresee is whether I can already say how many additional rentals in the free sector I will be showing in the next few years in the State of the Housing Market. I just don't have any justification for that. Of course, I am dissatisfied, and I am sure you too, if the increase in the last few years when it comes to medium-term rentals does not continue in the coming years. Then we've done something wrong. The information gets to the Chamber every year. I am simply asking: do not force me to fill in the figure in the information I have yet to provide, because I simply do not have sufficient support for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u54	Mr Köhler has exercised his patience for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u55	You can never practice enough patience in politics, Mr. Chairman. Before the Minister got involved in this highly interesting debate on the missing houses in the middle segment, he had gone into a remark he attributed to me. I would have said that rents in the Netherlands are the highest in Europe. The Minister then rejected it. Yeah, that wasn't so hard, but I never said that. I literally said in my speech: 'Were the rents in the Netherlands ever low in relation to our neighbouring countries, today there is the opposite'. I thought it important to note this when we are talking about the level that the rents have gradually reached. If the Minister would also like to refute these figures, I would like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u56	I have taken Mr Köhler's comment literally. The opposite of the lowest is the highest. At least that would be my interpretation. Obviously, Mr Köhler did not mean that, but I drew this conclusion and, on that basis, looked again at the comparison of Dutch rentals with the countries around us. The latest figures available from 2014 show that Dutch rentals are in a middle position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u57	I have not made the comparison with the rest of Europe, which also surrounds us, as far as I am concerned, but with the surrounding countries. You are talking about Germany and Belgium: countries that are somewhat comparable in terms of income levels and quality of rentals. The fact that you lost more of your income to a decent rental house in Romania than in the Netherlands is not so strange, given the low income there. There is therefore no point in this comparison, but the comparison with neighbouring countries makes sense. I find it remarkable that the Netherlands used to have relatively low rents, generally speaking, and that we now have relatively high rents compared to the neighbouring countries. For me, that is an argument for not continuing on that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u58	Now Mr Köhler again states that the Netherlands has "high rentals" compared to the surrounding countries. I don't have any information about Romania. In front of me, of course, I would also like to hand this over to neighbouring countries: Germany, France, Austria, Luxembourg, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Norway and the United Kingdom. In comparison with those countries, the Netherlands is in a middle position. Questions have been asked about the temporary leases. I indicated in the introduction that there were signals in the Chamber a number of years ago and from the world of providers that they needed them. It is precisely because of the lack of flow and due to the waiting lists that there are in a number of places that the cabinet has reason to offer temporary contracts under this law under a number of strict safeguards. On this subject, Mr Flierman asked others to confirm first of all that, as far as the cabinet is concerned, the contract remains the standard situation for an indefinite period of time. That is indeed the case. Mr Flierman then asked whether the contract would continue to exist after this law was introduced, because one of the reasons for this law is that this wording is often used improperly or badly. My goal is that this construction is used much less, but that it can still be appropriate for vacation rentals or swap houses. That is why we still have the possibility in the law, but we want to offer a much better regulated alternative with the possibilities that this law introduces. Mr Flierman asked about the position of house-breeders of foreign students; Mr Verheij also referred to this. They actually belong to the parties who asked for the possibility to offer a temporary lease, which could be combined with a short-term study stay in the Netherlands. It is precisely these providers who are unhappy with Mr De Vries' amendment in the House of Representatives. That amendment introduces the possibility of withdrawing from the tenant's side in the meantime. I gave that amendment a positive opinion at the time, which is now part of the law. I did so on the assumption that in the student housing market it is very much the question at all whether there will be a very frequent mid-term cancellation. If you come to the Netherlands as a student for six months or a year to follow a study programme, the chance that you want to leave your home in the meantime is small for something else anyway. You're in a country you don't know and it won't be easy to find another place to live for a while. So I think the risk here was clear; that was one consideration for me. In addition, there is still a shortage of student housing in the vast majority of student cities. Therefore, should an interim termination occur, the rentalability of such a property will not give rise to a very large bottleneck. All these considerations were the reason for me to say that this amendment is feasible and does not cause unreasonable damage. Here too, we naturally want to keep our finger on the pulse in the evaluation and interim measurements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u59	I would like to ask you about two aspects of this issue of student accommodation. Firstly, when accepting the amendment, the Minister made the assessment that the effects would not be harmful. Now we hear from those who represent the interests of universities and colleges of applied sciences and also from the dome of dormitories that they do foresee problems, because there may be more opportunities for those foreign students to move, even temporarily, to another, perhaps more attractive place for them, which will leave that dormitory empty. The Minister then says that in many student cities there is still a shortage of rooms and that such a room will be available for hire. That is the case, I think, but the problem is that these institutions have, as a rule, committed themselves to having a number of rooms available for new incoming exchange students every so many months as part of exchange arrangements. So you can't just rent that room to any other student, because then that room is no longer available for exchange projects for three or four months. It's just that's stuck in the student cities. It is precisely that that should be a reason, as far as we are concerned, to look seriously again at whether Mr De Vries' amendment has an undesirable effect on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u60	I would like to say to Mr Flierman that we will continue to look at the effects of this law as a whole and of this part. Renting a room for two or three months, as in the example mentioned by Mr Flierman, is not unusual. I say this on the basis of my experience with student rooms at the time, because it has been common practice for such a period of internship for a long time. Although that was not regulated by law at that time, you would call this by its nature "short-lived".................................................................................................................................................................................................... Even now there are still rooms offered for two or three months; I sometimes speak to a student, at my home and elsewhere. So I'm not very worried in advance. That was also the reason for my reaction to the amendment that has now become part of this legislative proposal, but I am immediately prepared to continue to monitor whether this will remain practicable in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u61	I think that the key issue for the relevant institutions, landlords, knowledge institutions, colleges and universities is that they should be able to guarantee that a number of rooms will be available each time. This guarantee is built into the exchange arrangements they make with institutions elsewhere in Europe. If they can't give that guarantee anymore, they're gonna get in trouble. If the Minister is going to monitor this and if he is willing to consider, if it turns out that this actually leads to undesirable effects, whether he should amend the legislation in that regard or otherwise ensure that those exchange programmes remain possible, I am largely reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u62	As Mr Flierman puts it, I would like to make a commitment. Mr Pijlman asked me on which my assessment is based that offering a number of forms of temporary leases also has a positive impact on the housing market. I have indicated that this question has been formulated a number of years ago and that I note that in the responses to this law both housing corporations and commercial landlords find this a useful addition. A group that I do not encounter very organized, but which I also sometimes speak, consists of people who have ever been given a home from an inheritance or for any other reason that they do not want to inhabit themselves. They often leave that house empty now. Especially in shrinking areas I am sometimes approached by housing corporations and directors, who indicate that there is little interest in residential housing, that there are quite a lot of residential properties and that there is a lot of demand for rental homes. They therefore ask whether it is possible to ensure that these properties are rented out. Such private owners often find it creepy to rent out, because they know that if the tenant doesn't behave as they would like, they should at least go to court and it becomes complicated to end the rental. It is precisely that group that I hope to cross the line by offering this opportunity. This in turn leads to a larger range of rental homes, which the Netherlands really needs. Mr Schouwenaar asked about the added value of the reminder letter for the conclusion of a fixed-term contract introduced in the House of Representatives by an amendment from the Christian Union. The consideration given by the author of the amendment was that the potentially significant event of the expiry of a rental contract would not take place in silence in this way, although when the rental contract was entered into there was no doubt that there was a temporary lease. There will therefore be a notification of the fact that the agreement already made will actually be implemented. It is therefore purely a formal requirement, but it does add useful information to a potentially far-reaching event. That is also why I left the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber at the time, because the amendment is, in my opinion, feasible. Mr Köhler asked whether it could also be arranged for the commercial sector that the fixed-term contract would only be used for specific groups, as was also the case for the housing corporation sector by amendment. I would find it undesirable to arrange this for the commercial landlords as well. The housing corporations have received from us that specific social assignment, with the corresponding support measures. Then I think it is logical that we should continue to ensure this task in different forms of legislation. In the case of the reasons I have just mentioned for the temporary leases, I have just mentioned the example of the private owner who owns a property from an inheritance or for any other reason that he does not rent out. I would be sorry if we were to push that offer away again by making additional demands. All in all, I find the way in which it is now regulated in the law by amendment, the right middle between not allowing a fixed-term rental contract without restriction and, where necessary, making it possible to do so a little more widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u63	Would the Minister also comment on what I said afterwards, namely that by allowing this for everyone in the private sector, this will be applied in practice to all new tenants and that this will simply be an extended trial period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u64	I think that is a very small opportunity, because it is not attractive for the landlords to change every year. A landlord rents out because it generates income for, for example, a pension or something else. A change usually means one or two months of idleness. There comes the cost of reinventing a tenant and drawing up a contract. For a landlord, that's not attractive at all. The fact that the rent regulation, which concerns the maximum rents, simply applies to this segment, also means that the rent cannot be raised suddenly at the end of a temporary contract. So I don't expect it to be unbridled at all. That is why I indicated at the beginning of my speech that, as far as I am concerned, a contract for an indefinite period remains the norm. I do expect it to meet a need in a number of specific situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u65	I think that the problem with the extended probation period is not that there will be landlords who want a new tenant every one or two years. That is indeed not attractive to them, but that they are going to apply extended probation for everyone. All tenants who give birth enough or who have a high enough income to their liking will then receive an indefinite contract. All these others, however, have lost their security. They will be told after two years: go on. Then they can go. They'll be outlaws. There will then be no form of rent protection for that group other than that they will be allowed to sit for two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u66	That would only make sense if it was very attractive for the landlord to do so. It is not, however, because after that period he will still have a period of vacancy and have to find a new tenant, which depends on the region in which it plays. So the switch isn't attractive. For a number of specific target groups it can be a useful addition and for a number of landlords who are not ready to take the step yet, it may be a good reason to take that step. That is exactly what I would like to achieve. Mr Verheijen asked me, from a similar concern, to monitor that temporary rent will not become the norm in the private rental sector. I would like to say to him that we will report on this in the annual reports both in the social rental sector and in the private rental sector. In the case of housing corporations, we can do so by letting them mention this in the information they already have to provide. In the private sector, we will do so with separate investigations. Mrs Bikker asked whether tenants, specifically those in student or PhD complexes, with an ongoing rental contract are covered by the rent protection of the old legal system and will not suddenly be confronted with a conversion to a temporary contract. I can confirm that. Existing contracts are respected. Mrs Bikker asked about the scheme introduced for large families. Her question was whether this really is a problem that needs a solution. And how are we gonna make sure families don't get in trouble? The fact that it is a problem that needs a solution is the result of the investigation that we have made in connection with a motion signed by the Christian Union among landlords and municipalities. Municipalities and landlords indicated that large social housing units are scarce, which makes sense because they are relatively expensive, and that it is very important for them to be able to use that scarce stock more focused as long as people need it because of a large family. It has been added, by amendment, that the landlord must demonstrate that appropriate housing is available. This is a "urgent own use" clause, which may also be subject to a judicial review. That in itself will ensure that landlords handle this carefully. The law doesn't say it should be a place nearby. Mrs. Bikker asked for that. However, a landlord is vulnerable if the judicial review shows that he has not taken into account the interests of the tenant. By including in the law that alternative housing should be available, we really protect the residents who may have to move, from the scenario of being on the streets, to say the least.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u67	I think I continue to disagree with the Minister as to whether this is the solution to a problem. The municipalities also voted against it later. However, this is now the case; we are not going to take that out of the law. The Minister clearly says: a landlord is vulnerable when he does not offer a large family a suitable living space within the neighbourhood in which that family lives. What we discuss here also determines the meaning of the law. I would therefore ask the Minister to be even more precise in this respect, as far as minors are concerned. A family with underage children is rooted in the neighborhood. I can imagine that it would be very difficult for a house outside its own district to be offered. Does the Minister share that assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u68	What will be tested is whether appropriate living space is offered. The law doesn't say it should be in the neighborhood. However, a judge can take that into account in the case of a family with children. I can't centrally force it to happen that way. Since this provision applies specifically to housing corporations, I can discuss with Aedes how a solution can be found in such a situation as described by Mrs Bikker, namely that of a family with school children. Since that judicial review can take place, it will also be important for the housing corporation that the situation is properly regulated. I cannot legally seal it, but I would like to say to Mrs Bikker that I will discuss with Aedes how to give hands and feet to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u69	Thank you very much for that commitment. I assume that the Minister's efforts in that consultation with Aedes are to ensure that minor children can stay at their own school, that distance from their own homes will be so limited that this is indeed possible. Is that how I understand his commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u70	I'll discuss it that way. Mrs Bikker also asked whether such a large family could also be a family with living grandparents. The law only refers to the number of persons living in the household. So living grandparents will just be counted. You might consider that a little bit like a defense buffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u71	All grandparents towards the multi-person house! I don't think that was originally the intention. I was looking a little bit at this point. I understand that it is written in the law, but the perverse incentive in it may be that older children are forced to live somewhere, or that all kinds of family members or less-known people are asked to sit in the big house for a while. Now that the Minister is consulting with Aedes, perhaps he can also keep his finger on the pulse in this regard. I don't want to make it worse, but when I read the legal text, I noticed that this could lead to wonderful, actually unwanted situations for the family as a desired form of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u72	I did not immediately judge "wanted" or "unwanted." When grandparents move in with children, a home is released. If people get happy living together, I don't have immediate concerns about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u73	I think it's all fantastic, too. It's also very biblical, all of those families together. Very nice, but it shouldn't be because of the desire to hold a house. It's gotta be voluntary. The choice must be based on other things than the desire to hold a home. Especially when older children who are ready to spread the wings are forced to stay somewhere so that the house can be kept, I find that a difficult incentive. That's what I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u74	I understand. Let me rephrase. Again, I am interested in the functioning of this part of the law. I didn't say for nothing that I'm gonna talk to Aedes in advance. However, I will also continue to report on how it is applied. We are already talking about a rather small sample. Mrs Bikker will agree with me on that. It's gonna be a while before we can really recognize patterns in this. In any case, I would like to make a commitment that we will return to this in the evaluation. Finally, questions have been asked about various housing market issues. Mr Pijlman asked me how I assess the investment opportunities of housing corporations in the light of the measures already taken and proposed. The proposed measures somewhat limit earning capacity. That's why I just indicated that I wouldn't have proposed this rent on behalf of the cabinet if there was no agreement. The sector image we sent to the Chamber shows that the financial position of housing corporations is still very healthy and clearly better than the predictions of some "sombermen" at the time the landlord levy was introduced. Moreover, we are getting forecasts. So I can give Mr Pijlman figures now, because here I have a good basis. The housing corporations give us forecasts of their planned new building production. This amounts to an average of 19,000 homes per year over the next five years. Mr Lintmeijer asked whether the low interest rate offered room for further reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction. The gradual conversion into a reduction in income tax was also a measure that I laid down in legislation. The introduction of this led to great commotion, but the effect fortunately shows that the housing market can have that. Because these are long-term obligations of people and the commotion at that time also made clear how sensitive consumers and builders are to these kinds of interventions, I indicated and I continue to say that this cabinet does not feel that there is a need to intervene in the mortgage interest deduction. Mr Lintmeijer asked about the ratio between middle income and higher incomes in the context of the mortgage interest rate deduction. It follows from a progressive tax system that for those who pay more tax, the possibility of deduction is greater in proportion to the progressiveness of the tax rate. Of course, the measure that I have introduced is gradually building it up. Mr Lintmeijer also asked how I looked at the prevention of an undesirable division between neighbourhoods with social housing and neighborhoods with residential properties and free-sector housing in the cities. I agree with Mr Lintmeijer that mixed districts and cities are desirable. For this reason, we have included in the Housing Act that housing corporations have a core role in social housing. However, in that law, we have also left open the possibility for them to build free-sector housing if, after a market test, they can demonstrate that it is good for a particular district to build free-sector housing but not for market players. Mr. Lintmeijer also asked about the production of energy-efficient homes. He said it didn't go fast enough. Mr Lintmeijer is right that the glass is half full. Investment in energy-efficient housing has increased in housing corporations, but the pace is not high enough to achieve the agreements made with each other. For this reason, I have also taken a number of measures in the form of a subsidy scheme, the STEP scheme, and the possibility of low-cost loans. At the moment, the Energy Performance Compensation Act is in this Chamber. That is what the housing corporations are waiting for, because that law makes the investments in energy saving much more financially possible for them. Mr Verheijen asked for my commitment to promote the middle-rent segment. There has been an extensive exchange of views on this subject in the event of an interruption. I see Mr Verheijen nodding in agreement. Mrs Bikker asked whether there was sufficient supply specifically in the social sector. Also there the WoonResearch shows the exact numbers again. The state of affairs in 2015 was a small 2.5 million social housing units and a target group of social tenants of 2.1 million. The stock is therefore larger than the target group. Due to the large number of cheap crooks in this case, we still see waiting lists in too many places.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u75	I'm afraid we may have misunderstood each other for a moment, because that was clear to me. I asked whether, because of the current requirements for housing, it was possible to build sufficiently in the cheapest segment of the social rental sector and whether these requirements would not automatically lead to the expensive segment, given the number of housing valuation points given automatically because of all construction requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u76	Indeed, building regulations often make building more expensive. We have also had discussions about this, especially in the Lower House. Fortunately, we have been able to simplify building regulations in a number of areas, for example for the conversion of former office buildings or other non-residential buildings. I've had extensive calculations made and published about what you can actually build within the social rental line and how much there is to be earned back. That depends heavily on the land price, but the fact remains that it can always be just. Now housing corporations, of course, have a social objective and are used to working with unprofitable summits, although we see them decrease fortunately over the past few years, so it can be done. It only continues to operate at the sharpest of the cuts. For this reason, I indicated earlier in my speech that in my view it is often a sensible consideration to sell rather more expensive houses and to invest their proceeds in more affordable houses or in energy saving in existing stocks. Mrs Bikker also asked about the difference in housing quotas between purchase and rental. I have already told Mr Köhler that the graph on page 65 of WoON 2015 makes that rather small difference very insightful. Mrs Bikker asked whether, after a period of five years, we could not allow the income limit, which was set at €39.000 for those five years in the case of housing allocation, to go back silently to the approximately €35.000, the other border. The law says "automatically," but I have also indicated in the Lower House that it cannot be silent. It is a decision to consider at that time. That will be my successor, I may assume, but I would like to say that before that moment it will be explicitly notified to the Chamber that that moment is coming and how the Cabinet wishes to deal with it. In ministerial continuity, this commitment will pass on to my successor. Mrs Van Weerdenburg made a rather short contribution, which is why I have not yet been able to do her justice. It specifically addressed the question of how much of that additional shared housing was realised in connection with the influx of status holders. The subsidy scheme that we have drawn up for this purpose has been in place since 1 February last. open. The situation as of 1 April. was that we received 307 applications from a total of 1,508 licence holders. So about 10% of the budget has been used. As the scheme runs until the end of 2018, it is currently the picture that is actually being used as planned. This also applies of course that I keep my finger on the wrist from month to month. With this I hope to have answered the questions in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u77	You have not answered my question as to why people who have a house with a rent of €800 to €900 per month, but still fall into the regulated sector, should pay an additional flow charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u78	These are people who have grown through the social rental border, otherwise they will not be covered by the rent protection of this law. This means that they still live in a social housing unit. They therefore live in a type of housing that is in short supply in many places. For this reason, they are covered by the flow incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u79	Suppose that property is then released, then it is a property with a rent of €800 to €900. That's not a home in the social sector that gets out. In that respect, you don't have to let them flow. It's all those homes that weren't liberalised at the start. People have lived there sometimes for 10, 20 years. They are still covered by the regulated rent, but by now that is the middle segment and that is also what it would be if that property were to be released. Nevertheless, if they go beyond a certain limit, they may ask for an additional 4% rent increase. However, this does not serve the purpose of flow. What purpose does it serve? Why are these people being attacked for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u80	Mr Köhler is making a leap of thought which he should not automatically make, because he says that this house has been started in terms of rent within the social rental sector, but has now gone out of business there. If they are released, they are therefore excluded from the social rental sector. But it's not. The housing corporation will decide on new rentals whether it wants the property to remain part of the social rental sector. Then she will have to bring them back below the income line. This has already been agreed in many municipalities in the framework of performance agreements. Where this is not yet the case, the new Housing Act strongly encourages municipalities, housing corporations and tenants to do so. So my position remains that at that time the house is still a social rental house and is not automatically a free sector dwelling. Because it is a social housing, it is also logical that the incentive to flow is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u81	As far as the corporation sector is concerned, it is not always the case that houses that have now crossed that limit go back to the social rental sector, quite the contrary. But that's not what I was talking about. These were mainly private-sector tenants. That is where this phenomenon occurs on a large scale. These are people who still fall into regulated rents, but no longer live in cheap housing. The landlord is given the opportunity to impose an additional 4% rent increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u82	Mr Köhler now adds the distinction whether the property with a rent of €800 belongs to a corporation or to a private landlord. I agree with him that a corporation will make that trade-off faster in the direction of "I'm turning it into a social home again" than a private landlord. Then I come to the point I mentioned earlier, namely that I have no legal basis to distinguish between private landlords and housing corporations in the rent increases. Along that route I come to the conclusion that the maximum rent increases are the same percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u83	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Minister for answering our questions. I continue to feel that I have also received answers to one or two questions that I have not asked, but nevertheless: I have listened with interest to the reflection on the operation of the Tax Administration. We have received a commitment from the Minister on two important points for us. First of all, before the summer, there is more often before or after the summer in this house before or after the summer, there is an evaluation of the income-dependent rent increase. The Minister is prepared to consider measures to better address the intentions of this income-dependent rent increase should the evaluation show that this is either sanding or pinching here or there. More specifically, he has promised that he will monitor whether there is a problem in the sphere of student room rental to exchange students. I assume he will talk to the sector about this and the sector will draw his attention to that problem when it arises. If there is such a problem, then he is prepared to take action on that point. Those are two important commitments to us. As far as I am concerned, this motion is no longer necessary. We await further developments. I listened with some interest to the discussion on the availability of housing in the middle-priced segment and the role of private investors. We had not asked any questions about this ourselves, but if I understand correctly, the picture is that in the past pension funds were very active in that world. The minister literally said that the ABP was once one of the largest landlords in the country. Gradually favoured its corporations in that market. In many cases this has been the result of government policy with guarantees and lower land prices. As a result, these investors have been driven abroad in a way. The Minister regrets this, because with it a capital flight of Dutch pension money takes place which he would like to see invested in the Netherlands. I get that. In the meantime, we have driven the corporations off that yard again. They should no longer be active in that segment. Now there's a hole where someone has to get in. The Minister was in the process of explaining what he intended to do to seduce those pension funds to become more active in doing so. Then he was interrupted by colleagues, which left the answer to that question in the air. I see from the mimicry of some that I am not the only one who is intrigued by this point. In the second term, I would like to hear from the Minister what he is doing to bring those investors back to the Netherlands. If these are profitable investments, I can imagine that, at a time of very low interest rates and not so daring stock prices, it is very attractive for pension funds to enter into well-performing investments in the rental market, if they can further secure their pension liabilities in the longer term. We would like a response from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u84	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the extremely comprehensive and adequate response. I've had answers to all my questions. In fact, the Minister replied that the housing market in the Netherlands is extremely complicated and not very transparent. There are rules, we make new rules and there will be exceptions to the rules. You're gonna have to act on that again. This is an issue that I raised in the first instance and which needs to be looked at in conjunction with another cabinet. I have first highlighted the relevance of labour market developments and flexibility in the housing market. I have pointed out that the flow to residential housing in particular could be hampered by the labour market situation, in which many people have to deal with temporary contracts or, even less, with flexible short contracts. The housing market now has to do with extremely low interest rates. However, this does not mean that space is created from the middle segment. The Minister nuances that and says that crooked living is of all times. I think we're underestimating the problem. I'm asking the Minister to keep up the good work. In my first term, I asked about the rent-sum approach and why it was chosen to treat the corporations and the private sector differently. The Minister replied that the sectors are not equal and are therefore treated differently. Corporates have to do with much lower interest rates and with other land prices. According to the Minister, this justifies maintaining the distinction. That's where he convinced me. I come to the issue of investment. We've talked about this before. I thought there was 4 billion ready, but there's 5.5 billion ready. That's even better. We have had the discussion about the development of land prices. The Minister says it is certainly a point, but not a decisive obstacle to investment. However, some investors point out that it is extremely difficult to obtain suitable land. The minister says he goes through the country and meets a lot of willingness. At the same time, he says that he cannot say exactly what we can count on when it comes to the projects that will be completed in 2017. We have had this discussion in detail and we must leave it at that. Maybe the Minister can say a little more about the confidence he encounters and why he thinks that investment in the middle segment is really getting off the ground. Earlier he said that he thinks it takes five years for the problem to be resolved. When you say that, you assume a certain number in totality, that you divide over a number of years. Well, I think you've got an indication. I am not concerned with these figures, but I think it is extremely important that we monitor what is happening here every year, even if it happens afterwards. After all, it is very important for the flow. The Minister reassured me by saying that a contract for an indefinite period remains the norm. We have said before that we consider temporary contracts and their extension acceptable if this increases the existing housing stock. The Minister also points out this in his reply. I consider it a commitment from the Minister to say that he will follow the entire process, including that of the temporary housing stock, and that he will report on developments. Finally, the Minister says that housing corporations are healthy. He can give a figure: 19,000 homes a year. But can he give an indication of the number of homes that are going to be demolished and withdrawn from the social housing stock, so that we know what the volume the corporations want to build is worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u85	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I did it, and he didn't skip a single one. There was even a bonus question that I asked last week and was answered again today. That is very nice and good for the continuity and consistency of the response. I welcome the assessment of the income-dependent rent promised by the Minister. We look forward to that. We'll have to worry about it. I have outlined in my contribution that we consider the housing market to be a flawed market. It is a market that cannot be made healthy overnight by the system of different segments, each with its own measures. D66 pointed that out, too. We continue to worry about further increases in rents, particularly in the lower middle segment of income. For the lowest incomes, we believe that a few steps in the right direction are being taken by the introduction of the law. In the segments just above, however, prices can still rise significantly. However, they are not people who live on fat incomes either. It's not a big deal there either, whether they're big or small families. We also continue to worry about the decline in the stock of social housing through sales and liberalisation. That is a tendency that this law does not prevent, unless we manage to build a lot of volume, in both the middle segment and the segment of the most affordable homes. In addition, we remain concerned about the effects of extending temporary rental opportunities, because we fear that it will reduce rent security for large groups of people, particularly in the private market. I would like to touch on investment in the middle segment. We would welcome it if the Minister could get pension funds or other investors to build up the empty yard. That would be very nice, but we are not entirely convinced that this immediately leads to high rents because otherwise the desired return will not be achieved. At present, financing costs and investment costs are so low for both corporations and private tenants that it must be possible to achieve sufficient return on affordable rents. That's because interest rates are so low now. When the cabinet came up with the proposal to adjust the mortgage interest rate deduction, the interest rates were around the double level of today. That's when we found it low. Now you can also get fixed interest rates on the mortgage interest market for less than 2% ten years. As far as we are concerned, this is still a reason to see whether the mortgage interest rate deduction can be adjusted a few steps faster than has been agreed at present. This will benefit financial opportunities, both on the part of borrowers and on the part of the public authorities. All things considered, we remain concerned about a number of points. We are still waiting for the answer in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u86	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the VVD Group, too, I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed and thorough reply, which was very interesting. I have just one comment to make on the income-dependent rent increase, the brake on liberalisation, the building and the note when the temporary rent ends. First of all, the income-dependent rent increase. Perhaps it is not illogical to assume that there will always be a great deal of pressure on the social housing stock, because we offer a lot of excellent homes for a very attractive price. As a result, many people in the Netherlands can live very well. At the same time, there will always be more need than we can offer. As far as we are concerned, it remains necessary to pay constant attention to flow. The income-dependent rent increase is an excellent means of achieving this. Again, with all the unpleasantness that may be its own for the people who touch it. That goes for one more than the other. But it can either contribute to the flow or generate additional rental income that can be converted back into investment. For example, the income-dependent rent increase directly benefits the seeker. That's what we're talking about. We must be careful to make exceptions because they all open the door to cheap living crooked. For this, too, the house seeker pays the price. In addition, this in turn leads to new definitions of categories that are excluded with the associated border disputes. We have seen examples of it again this evening. Two exceptions have now been made. That is, of course, acceptable, because they were introduced into the House of Representatives by amendment. We are asking the Minister whether he is prepared to look again at the exceptions, in the sense of whether it is possible to do so without it, if the free sector would allow it to do so. Then there is liberalization. In the explanatory statement, but later in the response to the First Chamber, we read that the Minister is putting a brake on liberalization. He motivates that with a reference to the living agreement of Aedes and the House Union. That's, I thought, the second ball of the footnote on page 3, but I'm not sure. In any case, this evening's debate has shown that it is necessary to liberalise housing in the social sector. They are above 142 points and they do a high rent, sometimes up to €900, I've heard. The Minister made an ardent argument in which he stated that 40% of housing is made up of single-family homes, but that this is no longer entirely in line with the current demand which tends much more towards single- and double-person households. There has to be some kind of transformation. We believe that the sale of those houses to be liberalised can generate a return that can be directly converted into smaller reconstructions or liberalised rentals. This also fills the middle segment, because it does not just have to be filled with construction. We therefore regret this, but it is in the law. We are not happy with it, but we continue to hope for moving insight. Then something about building. I read in the Acts of the House of Representatives that it was mainly the SP who repeatedly put forward the motto 'building, building, building'. I have read that with a great deal of approval. With even more approval, I have heard that the Christian Union is taking over this motto 'building, building, building' this evening. I would like to support it, but I am referring in particular to 'appropriate building, appropriate building, appropriate building', not only in the social sector, but also in the middle area, in the free sector. As far as we do not manage to build, I would like to say: liberalize, liberalise, liberalise. Then the note at the end of the temporary rent. I haven't heard the added value of it. I heard it's in there, but we already knew that. I see this as a bit of a build-in of an unnecessary difficulty. It was known that it was temporary, with the tenant and also with the landlord. I don't think the note's gonna change either one of them. I think it's more like a banana peel. I hope no one slips over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u87	It seems to me to be contributing to the debate which also refers to the footnote in this Chamber. I call Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u88	Mr. Chairman. I judge the cabinet's proposals as: more VVD policy it cannot be. I recognized very little coalition policy in it. I have maintained that firm conviction for a while, but I was wrong. Now that I have heard Mr Schouwenaar, I think it could be worse. It could be worse. The attack on the social rental stock is already massive, but there is no nuclear bomb on it yet. If the VVD group really got its way, that would be the case, proverbial. In this respect, it is not so bad, but that is the only positive thing we can discover in the cabinet's proposals. These proposals are on top of the social lease agreement that we could have lived with, although this includes even more rent increases than we would have liked. This would in any case lead to moderation and a fairer distribution of rent increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u89	The last time I disagreed with the SP dated two weeks ago. Then I had to defend myself against allegations of my limited comprehension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u90	I didn't say that at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u91	No, but I did sum it up correctly that way. Now I have to resist the tendency to throw atomic bombs, but it's not that bad. Mr Köhler lists a number of elements that we think are good, so good measures, but there are also a number of measures that have disadvantages from the VVD point of view. I am glad that Mr Köhler is prepared to look at it that way. I refer in particular to the rent, the moderation of the rents which also have financial consequences, the negative consequences for the flow and the negative consequences for the investments and therefore for the people looking for housing. They are the ones closest to our hearts. Perhaps we are closer to each other in that respect than Mr Köhler has just suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u92	If you put it so broadly, we agree with all parties, but when it comes to which seeker does not get his right, or who has to pay too much in our eyes, we disagree completely again. I had indeed understood Mr Schouwenaar correctly. Some elements of the law, especially the reduction of rent increases, also for a few specific groups, think the VVD is bad, while we thought: these are elements of the law that we can still agree with. It has been pointed out from several quarters that further rent increases over inflation are needed, inter alia because of the otherwise threatening lack of investment space among corporations. You can look at it in this way, but you can also say that the real cause of the possible lack of investment space is that according to the Minister, it is still due to the landlord levy. We have to give 1.5 billion a year and later even more to those who could otherwise have been spent in the context of housing. If you cause that problem yourself, we are not, but there are more parties here who voted against the landlord tax together with the parties who were before it, then you should not come back to the tenants afterwards with the request whether they want to pay extra rent for creating investment space for people who are looking for a home now. That's the same, sometimes vulnerable group every time. There is also an escape route for this problem. As SP, we have already put this forward in a detailed proposal. It concerns the deduction of uneconomic investments, or the uneconomic peaks of investments from the landlord's tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u93	When we talked, I think, three years ago about the landlord's tax, we talked about an ascending amount, ultimately up to 1.7 billion. At first it was much lower. At that time it was already established that the tax could only be paid out of the efficiency gains of the corporations and the sale of old assets. At that time it was already established that it could be paid throughout the term without a cent or euro rent increase. In fact, I do not think that the full coverage is due to the rent increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u94	I do not share that analysis, but perhaps we will discuss the figures in another debate. But if Mr Schouwenaar is right with his statement, I do not understand why so many additional rent increases are allowed, coupled with that landlord levy. The Minister said just before the private sector that these additional rent increases should continue because we must also be able to recover the landlord's tax. In the Government's reasoning, these rent increases were therefore necessary to cover, at least in part, the landlord levy. In any case, we think there is an escape route: by subtracting the uneconomic investments from the landlord's tax, you could still make those investments in the social sector or at all in the housing sector. Of course, this costs money, but that finances itself because of the additional investment additional taxes will also be introduced. Look again at our proposal, which at the time was supported not only by the trade unions but also by the employers in construction. By the way, and for that I would like to join Mr Lintmeijer, there is hardly at present the problem of high uneconomic peaks in new construction in the social sector. This is due to the very low interest rates, including the low interest rates for long term payments. It is a coincidence that this coincides, but it is a solution for many housing associations. That's why they like to invest again, unlike the previous years. I would like to touch on a few points concerning the Minister's reply, namely the income-dependent rent increase and the EUR 39 000 limit. The Minister again refers to all kinds of Nibud investigations. You can get what you want out of that. It's just how many types of households you're up against. With some arbitrariness, two groups are now exempt from the income-dependent rent increase. We support that, of course, because we are opposed to this form of income-dependent rent increase. The more groups are exempted, whether or not based on Nibud studies, the better: we will always support it. However, Mr Schalk also made it clear that for certain types of households a household income of €40,000 per year could lead to a net income of €2,300 per month. My question if you are still a cheap crook if you have to pay €700 rent, is still not answered. We don't think so. We do not think that these people pay too little, and therefore they should not be used for that extra 4% year by year. How can you fix that? We could go back to that $44,000 limit. That's the border now, even this year. So you get 4% extra rent increase above that €44.000. The Minister proposes to reduce that to €39,000. We shouldn't. We could also look at net income and then base a rental quota on it. There is no doubt that Mr Schalk's problem groups will be more likely to be met. There are therefore many solutions to the unfair form in which this income-dependent rent increase has now been implemented. My question as to why the group above €39,000 income, but also above €710 rent per month, is now being treated with a flow levy, as far as I am concerned, has not been satisfactorily answered by the Minister. For that group, the reasoning does not apply that it should be forced or encouraged to move to the middle segment. Those people already live in the middle segment! They can't go any other way. They only face inflation plus 4%, year by year. That is very unfair. There is no motivation whatsoever within the whole of this measure. As far as I'm concerned, it was an accident to stay in the law. The minister says he can't set any other boundaries. Why not? Why do we not say that this only applies to homes up to €710 per month? That's what we do at the landlord's tax. The landlords do not have to pay a landlord's tax on those more expensive properties. There it is also limited to that limit, so that might as well be here. I note that the Minister has reiterated that he intends to allocate appropriate resources to avoid this problem in the case of new tenants as regards proposals for expensive skeptics. That's what we're all for. But that doesn't solve anything for the 530,000 households that it already affects. He also says that he wants to strive more for cheaper new buildings, so below the global limit of €600 rent. We are in favour of this, but that also does not solve anything for the very large group that is already in it. In the very long term, these two measures will, of course, have an effect, but that is going to take a very long time. So we continue to insist, now but also in a subsequent debate on destabilizers that we are hopefully going to have here, on additional measures to spare the expensive skeptics who are overly resident in relation to their income, according to everyone's standards so far, for example by freezing rent for them. Then I come to the most important point in this debate for us: the additional rent increases in the private sector. That's a long way to go. With the corporations, the rent goes with the new approach of inflation plus 1.5% to an inflation plus an average maximum of 0.4%. That's a lot less increase. However, in the case of individuals, this 1.5% is not maintained, but it goes to inflation plus 2.5%, year by year. This also applies, for example, to the expensive skeptics who are already paying far too much. We do not see any need for this. Also not for earning back the landlord's tax, because it is covered by the rent increases of 2013, 2014, 2015 and also 2016 slowly. We are therefore still calling for a more reasonable system of rent increases for this group too, more in line with the tenants in corporations. This could be done by declaring the rent-based approach applicable to private and commercial landlords as well. The Minister sees technical objections in this respect, but we do not think they are so serious. If that would prove impossible, there is, of course, still the alternative, and I asked for it in the first period, but the Minister did not go into this in order to limit the annual rent increase for these houses to inflation plus 1%. For the landlords, this still means that they get 1% plus an average of 0.6% per year by means of rental harmonisation, which is excluded, plus an average of 0.8% per year because of the extra income-dependent rents. So they can still ask for a substantial increase in rent over inflation. But in any case, the position of tenants in this sector is somewhat more comparable to the position of tenants in corporations. That is what we have to do, of course: in the case of rent protection, it is not a question of protecting one group, which happens to rent one, and of dividing the other group into an additional rent increase in the stomach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u95	Mr Köhler, will you finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u96	That is why we are tabling a motion to that effect. The President shall: Mr Köhler, Mr Bikker, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Koffeman and Mr Ruers proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas tenants of private and commercial landlords are entitled to as much as possible equal rent protection as tenants of approved institutions;]] [[calls on the Minister to come forward with proposals to apply the rental sum approach with the corresponding maximum rent increase also to private and commercial landlords with a regulated rental price or to limit the annual rent increase of these homes to inflation plus 1%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34373-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u97	Mr President, you urgently asked me to conclude. I'll do that with one sentence. The answers to the unlimited temporary leases in the private sector, to put it another way, not only in the regulated private sector, but in my view, if I read the law correctly, in the private sector as a whole and the answers to the maximum five years of temporary leases in unself-employed living quarters, have not convinced us of the desirability of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u98	Mr. Chairman. We too would like to thank the Minister for the in-depth way in which he has answered the questions. I agree with Mr Flierman's suggestion that we continue with the difficult middle segment and the investment area that is or is not there, and with the question of who is responsible for it, apart from the regional and local arrangements which the Minister is trying to make. There is also a kind of system responsibility for the whole, and the Minister is the first to be able to address it. We also welcome the two commitments made by the Minister. The first concerned the temporary leases and the manner in which the Minister intends to report annually on them. This should provide an in-depth understanding of segments and target groups. The Minister took the position that he chooses to maintain the standard of the contract for an indefinite period when it comes to the existing rental stock. I therefore understand that he is prepared to take action if it is unexpected that there will be a displacement effect in the temporary lease market. The Minister has also indicated that the change phase is currently 8% per year. This will then have to be reflected in the annual figures. In any case, the Minister has indicated to us that there will be a number of times this year when we will discuss the evaluation and possible adjustment of measures. With regard to the second commitment, a brief contribution on students and international exchanges, I would like to say that we fully support the De Vries amendment. We also believe that practical measures can solve the problem. We were particularly concerned that the reputation of the Netherlands education country should not be called into question as a result of the effects of the law. As the father of four children in college, I would like to give the Minister himself some experience if necessary. The sample to provide the basis for the investigation should be a large sample, also in order to provide more insight into the questions raised by the Christian Union in that regard, as well as possible as regards the questions raised by the SGP in relation to income developments. I understand very well that we should not try to pursue an integrated income policy with rent policy. The integrated income policy also belongs there, within the Social Affairs portfolio. However, I agree with the Minister that figures can give indications of undesirable developments. We will also have to keep our finger on the pulse. Finally, I hope that the legislative proposal can indeed have the positive effects that we are seeing together today. I also understand from Mr Köhler that he considers the rent-based approach for the social sector to be a step in the right direction. In this sense, he could have supported the objectives of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u99	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. The concerns I still have, I shall end on a point-by-point basis as they were addressed in the reply. The first is the expensive crooked living. The Minister shares with the Christian Union Group the analysis that such a worrying development is taking place. He hopes for the appropriate allocation, which has now been achieved in the House Act, and indicates that he has the same information as my group. He also undertook to report clearly on this through the annual State of the Housing Market. That all sounds good and beautiful. That commitment is therefore noted. However, if you look at the 2015 edition of the State of the Housing Market, you will see that many data relating to affordability are based on the large Housing Research 2012. So that goes back three years. If we look again at the annual State of the Housing Market, my fear is that the data will be based on WoON 2015. As a result, we will have to wait another three years, while in the last three years there has been an increase of 40% in the expensive segment of destabilization. This therefore calls for more than the current usual information flows per year. As the Minister stated that he has the same information as my group, I hope he fully shares this. Can he promise to inform the Chamber further, so that we are not limited to the annual information from the annual state of the housing market that we now know, and so that we do not go back on the housing research every time, but really keep our finger on the pulse? For example, in three years' time we will not be able to see that 40% has been added. I would like to have a clear commitment on this point. I think we have been on the right track together. As regards the large cut-off in rentals in the middle-priced segment, previous speakers have already said the necessary things. The Minister has good hopes that the measures taken together with the available capital will lead to an increase in the number of dwellings. I sincerely hope that this optimism will come true. However, the sounds are rather variable, and the success also depends on the willingness of the municipalities to make their land available at a realistic price. In addition, the question is whether there is sufficient scope for doing so. In addition, construction in the cheapest segment is still at the sharpest of cuts, as the Minister also admits, partly due to building requirements. This also sometimes depends on land prices. All in all, I have the impression that there is still a lot of work to be done to maintain the social housing stock. The figures in WoON do not reassure at all. The continuation of the trend even shows a halving of the number of rentals below the quality discount limit. I would ask the Minister to be very keen on this and not to wait until three years, so that we can only get an insight into how things are developing. Can he pay explicit attention to this next year to the State of the housing market, so that we can see whether all the measures that have now been taken, and in which I also support the Minister, are indeed contributing to stopping this trend? I hope he's willing to commit. I also notice this: there is actually a monstrous union of SP, ChristenUnion and VVD, then everything is really fantastic! All three of them say: build, build, build. We are not talking about liberalization. The Minister has made a good commitment to the large families and the concerns that my group had about this, in particular about the underage children of these families. I very much appreciate that he wants to talk to Aedes on this point in order to ensure that these children can actually stay at the same school and thus remain part of the community in which they are rooted. I would also like to hear from the Minister how that discussion went, but I assume that this subject will return on its own. Moreover, the Minister will keep an eye on the fact that no unwanted family conditions arise because a family wants to stay large enough to stay in a house, and that there are not all kinds of uncles, aunts or anyone else to keep the house. He'll keep his finger on the wrist, and I thank him for that. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that the temporary increase in the income limit for the allocation of rental homes from €39,000 will not be reduced silently to €35,000, but that this will first be addressed in the review of the Housing Act, and that any reduction will only be made after the review in the Chamber has been discussed. I thank the Minister for that commitment. I'll ask him to confirm that we've understood each other so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u100	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given, including the point where I concentrated. The SGP remains of the opinion that it is important to address the distortion of living. There's still appreciation for the bill. However, I would like to mention the problem that I raised, also because I said in the first period that I would come back to it. The definition of the target group of the social rental sector and the determination of the rent increase is based on household income. This does not take account of differences in the tax burden, which, for example, may increase enormously between earners and two-earners but also between two-earners. In the first term, the Minister indicated that he wanted to share a political balance with me. We're not really getting out of there. The problem, as I put it, is that our system is designed in such a way that the two-earning is stimulated and the one-earning is punished. However, we do not agree on this political balance. In addition, there was the technical consideration of whether it was possible to separate gross and net with a ministerial arrangement or to exclude certain groups from the additional rent increase. My conclusion is that you could if you wanted to. However, I understand from the answer that the sliding scale in particular is very complicated and that it does not allow you to define very well which groups you would like to touch. We then conclude that it can be problematic for different income groups. The Minister indicated in the first time that he wanted to investigate this in the context of an evaluation or an investigation. My preference would be research. I do not know exactly what evaluation the Minister means, but an evaluation provided for in the law is in five years' time. This therefore takes a very long time, while in the meantime the problem remains of possible undesirable and even unjustified ratios from the perspective of disposable income. In the first term, the Minister also indicated that it was his intention to avoid undesirable effects. That's a wider life. Mr Verheijen referred to it and Mr Köhler pointed out it. Mr Köhler mentioned a few different solutions, and Mr Verheij indicated that there was a difficult problem in this situation for some groups. My request to the government is therefore to examine the advantages and disadvantages of applying income after taxation as a starting point for rental policy. This may be relevant when entering the rental sector and determining the rent increase in the future. I look forward to a positive response so that the positive response to this bill can be reinforced by the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u101	I note that the Minister is able to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u102	Mr. Chairman. I will reply again in order of the questioners. I shall begin with Mr Flierman and the commitments he made on the evaluation of the income-dependent rent increase for the summer and my willingness to take action if necessary. As far as I am concerned, that summary was correct. That's how I want to do it. The same goes for his wording that I will monitor how the implementation of the law of temporary rental contracts will work out for international students. I'll do it that way. He has described beautifully how the corporations have been chased away and an empty yard has been created. I know the Ledig Erf in Utrecht; I wouldn't build it up. With regard to the wording 'exhibited', I note that there was until 1 July. was not a limitation for housing corporations to build in the free sector. Unfortunately, that has not led to the disappearance of waiting lists. They didn't suddenly arise at my arrival or on July 1st. They were there before that, too. It did lead to the situation that I described and which Mr Flierman rightly referred to as the withdrawal of pension funds and commercial investors. Housing corporations performed poorly in the commercial sector. We report annually on the losses incurred therein. They were impressive, but that money was actually earmarked for the social rental sector. Continuing on that road was not an option for the cabinet. Mr Flierman, Mr Pijlman and others asked me once again to outline how the cabinet intends to stimulate the middle-cost rental sector. Mr Pijlman referred to the system responsibility for the housing market. That's exactly how I see it. I do not build myself, but I do have to create the conditions under which to build and therefore build. I will give you a whole list of measures already taken and some measures still to be taken. I start by tightening the mortgage criteria, which have the main aim of reversing the unhealthy financial situation in the housing market to healthy proportions, but which results in a higher demand for middle-priced rentals at the start of the residential career. One of the important objectives of the Housing Act, the expulsion of the yard in Mr Flierman's words, was very conscious in order to restore the level playing field between commercial tenants and housing corporations in the free sector. A measure that has already been taken is that the social rental border is frozen because much of the demand for free sector is close to that social rental border. One of the clear signals from commercial investors is that they do not want to be overtaken by the social rental limit and are therefore subject to rent regulation. That is why the Cabinet also stipulated in the Housing Act that the social rental limit would be frozen for at least three years. As manager of the state real estate, I own empty buildings, which are sold on a large scale and are often transformed into a free sector. You are undoubtedly aware of the example of the former Ministry of the Interior, which is now being finalised. Also in many other locations, such as the Navy Island in Amsterdam and the former airport Valkenburg, we make land available for housing, as far as I am concerned as soon as possible. In the pipeline is the law we are discussing tonight, which contains a number of flow incentives and which, under a number of conditions, are also clearly intended to attract new offers. I have announced an adaptation of the housing valuation system which should make it possible to build, in the regions with the largest shortage in the housing market, namely the housing market regions of Amsterdam and Utrecht, small-scale housing that would still be covered by the housing valuation system in the regulated sector, but which is very much in demand in the free sector. It's very often about the single person who can't buy there, but could rent. By adjusting the housing valuation system, the construction of these compact apartments is made possible while at the same time the municipalities are given the possibility to apply a maximum rental limit for that category. The General Management Measure is still in the pen. I hope that I will be able to finish it this summer and add another instrument. There are also the efforts that I and my people are making towards municipalities to make them aware of this important segment. I notice that it is not just a theory, because fortunately I always do my other efforts towards investors at home and abroad in the company of aldermen of those municipalities. They signal with me that this great need is there and explain with me we are often literally in the same position to investors what is changing in the Netherlands and how big the demand is. This whole package of measures taken and the inventing of successes leads me to believe that this development is really going to happen. Your Chamber may address me to that, because I shall continue to report on that. It is also necessary that this development gets that acceleration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u103	I am glad that the Minister has just listed that list, because it is of course a bit naive that in any case the problem of the retirement of pension funds is, in a sense, caused by government policies of the Empire and municipalities together in the sense that they have facilitated corporations. That is clearly not yet a success. Then there's a problem and then it would be weird if the government looked the other way in solving that problem. That is why I think it is right that the Minister should indicate that he is doing his best with a series of measures to tempt those investors, so to speak, to invest in that middle-priced segment in the Netherlands again. I thank him for that response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u104	You're welcome. We're gonna follow together to see if that's gonna go fast enough. Mr Pijlman noted that the regulation of the housing market was complicated. I agree with him. Today we are also talking about complex parts. That is, of course, because we are all looking for a balance between creating a sufficiently attractive environment for those investments, where an investor will generally say: do not make any arrangements, because then I can choose my contract form freely. I think an investor will say: I prefer not to have any legal arrangements at all about the terms of a lease; just let the freedom of contract apply. Of this we say with each other, in different keys: we do not want to go that far either, because living is a first need for life. We have similar considerations when offering rental space, where an investor will generally say: why do you even arrange it? The Cabinet and your Chamber, also in all kinds of different keys, say: make sure that there is some form of regulation there. That makes it complicated, but I believe that we have a housing market that is not perfect, needs some real improvement in parts, but can certainly pass the test of criticism internationally. We have to keep each other critical and sharp, so that the measures actually work. Mr Pijlman briefly referred to my observation that living crooked is of all times. I didn't mean that laconically. I am referring to this in response to Mr Pijlman's question as to whether the rise of the self-employed without staff was the explanation for the difficult flow. In response to this, I said: no, even in reports of 20 years ago, I can already say that this phenomenon was already a concern, especially at the time of cheap living. Mr Pijlman asked me about figures on the intentions of housing corporations in terms of demolition and sales. I can also supply them, because that is the question we are explicitly asking. The expected annual demolition was at the last reporting 11,000 homes per year and the expected sales 18,000 homes per year. I can't split that up to which part of the property is sold as a property and which part of the property remains because it goes to an institutional investor. However, I would like to make a comment on these figures, because a lot of corporations have recently indicated that they are going to reduce sales and demolition in connection with the influx of status holders. The last report yielded these figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u105	It's good to zoom in on that. When the minister just said it was a volume of 19,000 homes, I asked what that was worth if you didn't know those other numbers. I said that in the context that up to 2013, some 35,000 homes were built by the corporations. That is due to the landlord's tax and other causes that have fallen to some 20,000 homes. The Minister actually says that this will remain the case in the coming period, no increase is expected back to that old level. If we look at the whole problem and at the number of homes that you withdraw and demolish, there is not really the growth we all hoped for and expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u106	A few months ago we published a prognosis on the demand for different types of housing in the Netherlands. We had it made by the Economic Institute for Construction. I had that research done together with Aedes and Bouwend Nederland. This study shows that the expected need for social housing in the three categories is the least increasing, by about 100,000 over a five-year period. That is, of course, on the basis of a number of assumptions. The expected need for medium-cost rentals increases by about 50%. The demand for housing is growing relatively less, but because it is a larger group, there is by far the largest growth in numbers. So out of the three categories, the least growth is expected from social housing. It's always a snapshot. This research has been done shortly before the recent influx of status holders, and due to international agreements, we must also wait for the follow-up. On the basis of that research and these new building projections, my analysis was that this did not immediately clash, because some of the sales do not disappear as a home at all and do not disappear as a rental house. That only goes to another owner and on that demolition there is very good control. We can see that housing corporations are doing that right now. For those housing market forecasts, too, we will continue to do them with some regularity in order to keep track of whether production in the Netherlands is reasonably in line with those forecasts, without me being the builder myself. Mr. Lintmeijer indicated that he saw that this law provides further protection for the lowest incomes, but he expressed his concern about lower incomes and middle incomes. I would like to point out once again that, for this group too, the inclusion of harmonisation and liberalization in the rent-based approach means that the large increases in rents over the last few years will be reduced along that route. This group is going to take advantage of that. In Mr Lintmeijer's opinion, the low financing costs currently incurred by pension funds and other commercial investors should be a reason to settle for lower returns. It is absolutely true that the returns in the investment category "houses" will be compared with those that may be achieved in other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u107	In order to avoid a misunderstanding: I did not mean to say that they would have to settle for lower returns, but that they would still be able to achieve sufficient returns with a lower rent, because those financial burdens are so low. That's what I meant to say technically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u108	Also with this addition, I give the following answer. An investor will compare not only between different investment categories, but also between different countries. In recent years we have seen that an investment in a rental house in the Netherlands was relatively unattractive for these parties. They will continue to make that assessment. When I stand there with those aldermen in such a position, I am not alone with Dutch aldermen. A stand further away are colleagues from Denmark, England or another country. So we have to keep an eye on that part too. That is why I have remained somewhat obstinate towards Mr Lintmeijer that I am not in favour of further regulation in that free sector. I agree with Mr Schouwenaar that this income-dependent rent increase generates additional income that ultimately benefits the people seeking housing. We also agreed on whether or not they will be included in the rent. He expressed concern that we are already going to differentiate too much in excluding the income-dependent rent increase. I have just said, in response to Mr Pijlman, that the complexity of the rental legislation..... I found Mrs Bikker's example about Drees to fit in nicely.......................................................................................................................................... It makes things a little more complicated. There is an inevitability, however, because you want to serve both gentlemen. Mr Schouwenaar was the first to mention "building, building, building." Others fell in with him, including me. That is why I am very critical of the conditions under which we can continue to build. That is why Mr Köhler and I disagree on this part. That is certainly not because, as he called it, I would like to throw an atomic bomb on the social rental sector. The social rental sector has great liberal roots. In the last century, many industrialists started social housing. The sector also has its roots in the workers' movement and in the churches. There's nothing as Dutch as housing corporations. I think they're crucial, too. There's a reason I've been working through the House Act to make sure they can do their real work again. I am therefore going to follow up the Liberal Group...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u109	I'm interrupting for a moment, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u110	I was just about to make a beautiful historical comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u111	Go ahead, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u112	My comparison with the atomic bomb may have been less historic. I didn't rub that on the Minister. I have just said that where the government is careful to ensure that the social sector is getting smaller and smaller, the VVD still wants to tighten that up by throwing an atomic bomb, proverbially speaking, on the whole social sector. The minister now stands up for his party mate and that graces him. However, I did not blame the government. It goes less far, but it does go the wrong way in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u113	Then Mr Köhler treats me somewhat more mildly than he treats Mr Schouwenaar. I also like Mr Schouwenaar, so that is a limited consolation. I would like to add that it was a liberal, Minister Pierson, who was both at the origin of the Housing Act and of the mortgage interest deduction, and that housing market policy therefore has great liberal roots. However, the corporate sector in the Netherlands has much broader political and social roots. Then there's the investment capital. I have just said that this is the fundamental reason why I disagree with Mr Köhler on the need for room for rent increases. He said it would be much better to have a combination of a no more than inflation following rent increase and no landlord tax. The last real pass-through I know of was made in the election programmes. Then the SP suggested it. The Central Planning Bureau then considered that this would lead to a significant reduction in the number of rentals and the increase in waiting lists. Since then, I've never seen a transfer of such a plan. My belief is that you really need to provide enough investment space. Construction costs do not follow inflation. Construction costs consist of workers' wages, financing costs and materials costs. They really increase by more than inflation, especially now that the construction industry is fortunately attracting more. If you limit the rent increase to inflation, that, in line with the analysis of the CPB I just mentioned, really leads to a decrease in construction production and an increase in waiting lists. I think that's undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u114	The Minister also knows that if this increase in wages is opposed to productivity growth, it is best to cope with this increase in costs only by monitoring inflation. If there is no increase in productivity in that sector and a lot of wage increases, he is right. But that is never the case, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u115	There is also not necessarily a wage increase that is in line with productivity growth. That would be wise, but it's not. I told you, pay is one part of the cost, in addition to capital costs and material costs. Neither of them follows inflation alone. Mr Köhler once again asked me what I thought of an income of €2,300 and a rent of €700 per month, a rent ratio of 30%. I referred him to the comparison between housing quotes of property owners and those of tenants, which is also included in the WoonResearch. There is also this category of income. That graph just shows neatly that the housing quotes of tenants are below those of homeowners or at most equal to them. I don't have the image that that's completely derailed right now. Mr Köhler also tabled a motion in which he asked me to come forward with proposals to apply either the rent sum approach with the maximum rent increase also to private and commercial landlords' homes with a regulated rental price or to limit the annual rent increase of these homes to inflation plus 1%. I have already said on the first part, the application of the rent, that I, like my predecessors who have already laid down rental amounts in laws, have found it difficult to apply for a large number of reasons. Often there is a smaller housing stock. In addition, we do not have reporting and enforcement tools and a private sector supervisor. So I do not think that rent-based approach is very feasible for the private sector. Maximising the rents on inflation plus 1% for private landlords would lead to legal inequality where it is for housing corporations plus 2.5%. In addition, it would lead to a reduction in earning capacity, where I agreed not to do so. It would also lead to less investment capacity, where we were almost cheering together saying that the task is 'building, building, building'. For all these reasons, I must, on balance, discourage this motion. Mr Verheijen spoke about system responsibility. I do feel that very strongly, and I am trying to implement it with this law, among other things. He also summarized my commitments, namely that I will measure annually in the State of the Housing Market and in the State of Housing, how the various parts of this law work out. I will make sure, as I used to learn before the statistical exams, that the sample is sufficiently large to be representative. If these studies show that there is a need for action, I am, of course, prepared to do so. I come to Mrs Bikker's questions. She expressed her deep concern about the increase in the expensive skewed living and asked me to confirm once again to monitor not only the housing survey, but to do so every year. I will indeed do so, with the observation that the housing survey provides the most accurate data. I request annual records of housing corporations, quite detailed. That is where I can extract this kind of information and also the information about the number of houses below the quality discount limit, so that I can deliver it fairly accurately in the meantime. Moreover, I also hope that Mrs Bikker will note with me that I have not waited for the Housing Research to take action. I understand very well the great attention that is now being paid to the expensive crooked living. But when I recreate the treatment of the Housing Act, which included the measure of appropriate allocation, I see that this was not done on the basis of the latest housing survey, but on the basis of the intermediate indications I already had, for example, on the increasing use of the rent allowance, that the expensive mislocation was increasing. Therefore, I have not hesitated to take those measures before the information from the Housing Research Office, for which, fortunately, I received broad support. I will indeed discuss with Aedes whether it is possible to find alternative accommodation for people who are asked to find another home under the scheme for large families, taking into account the proximity of their own school in school. I'll be happy to let the Chamber know what's coming out of the meeting. I have already indicated that, because of the small target group, this will not be very clear immediately. Yet I will try to visualize whether it leads to unwanted movement in the family sphere. Mrs Bikker asked once again to formulate how a next cabinet will deal with the reduction of €39,000 which is now automatically in the law. The law continues to state "automatically," but such a cabinet will inform the Chamber in good time whether it intends to proceed with this reduction in law so that, if the Chamber disagrees with it, it can take action, or whether the cabinet itself may already make a different assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u116	Thank you for that commitment. I assume that the Cabinet will therefore involve the evaluation of the Housing Act, on the basis of which this measure was ever taken. Otherwise, it is again difficult to assess whether it is a wise decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u117	Sure, because that evaluation was promised at the same time. Mr Schalk and I have different views on the political desirability of promoting dual-earning. He indicated that, if you really want it, you could make exceptions for two-earers in the ministerial arrangement, despite that sliding scale. In any case, I do not think that is pure, because the distinction is not so clear, because of the sliding scale, that I want to do so through lower regulation. However, I am prepared to inform the Chamber of the advantages and disadvantages of handling income after tax, as a starting point in rental policy. I'll do that in a separate letter sometime in the summer. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u118	Does that also apply to Mr Schalk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u119	Thank you for the commitment of a letter, in which that investigation will be expressed. I've been trying to say it could be, if you wanted to. Of course, that sliding scale makes it harder. But with this commitment, I am very well off for the moment. Thank you again for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-9.u121	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we do so immediately this evening, as we agreed this afternoon, with the exception of the motion under letter K, so that political groups have the opportunity to discuss it internally. Then there will be a vote on Tuesday.
