ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Today the newspaper said that the MBO Council fears a growing underclass due to the arrival of the robot. Half of the Netherlands would be out of work. It seems the PvdA occasionally sits in the blood to see the future gloomy. After Minister Asscher, Jan van Zijl, the outgoing chairman of the MBO Council, now seems to be afraid of the future. It doesn't have to be that bleak, because we know what has to be done to keep the robot in charge. We need to make our education and our labour market more flexible. In almost all studies on lifelong learning, it is proposed to work with educational vouchers so that people can choose where they want to use their training budget instead of having to choose from the standard range of the roc's. More offer leads to more choice, so an appropriate training for everyone. But then we must dare to take these steps and break the existing interests of the large funded education institutions. How nice is it then if the MBO Council itself comes up with the proposal to have public and private educational institutions work much more together to offer tailor-made training for people who want to be educated and educated. This proposal is much like the proposal that the VVD already presented to the Minister in its pamphlet in 2014. It is an opportunity for the Minister to finally break the deadlock in the Lifelong Learning File and work on training vouchers, with a level playing field between public and private educational providers in the MBO. I don't care whether Kees is taking a course at the LOI or at the rock around the corner, as long as that training ensures that Kees gets back to work quickly. Does the Minister seize this support from an unexpected angle of the MBO Council to now also work on demand financing in the MBO, as a majority of this Chamber has already asked it to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that the MBO Council, at Jan van Zijl's farewell, presented an interesting pamphlet with five points, with which everyone can benefit. It is also mainly aimed at politics, at political parties for election programmes. I'd say let everyone take advantage of that. Combating early selection, bringing low-skilled people to a higher level, providing training and training for refugees and financial support for parents of children on the MBO. They're all interesting proposals. Mrs. Lucas is taking one out. Let me say that robotisation requires a great deal, both from the labour market and from education. We're also adjusting education. It is becoming more responsive, more flexible, and more use is being made of modern techniques and entrepreneurship. This includes training the group which is particularly vulnerable in the rapidly changing labour market, namely the low levels of MBO. So we're doing a lot of things about that. I attach great importance to the importance of Lifelong Learning. We are looking at how we can make qualifications suitable as certificates, so that you can obtain a diploma on parts. In the summer, the first opinion of the SBB will be on this subject. I am also considering, at the request of Mrs Lucas, among others, setting up a committee to see if we can shape demand funding in the MBO. In the meantime, we've got that in HBO. A number of experiments are now under way. I want to know how they work before we take steps in the MBO. So we've been doing a lot of things. I will also take action in the near future, but I think that many of the proposals deal with major issues which can also be dealt with in a subsequent cabinet and therefore in election programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister keeps repeating it: we do so much already. However, I think the question should be: are we doing enough? We have another public gallery full of MBO students, I think. I want education to be applied to them so that they can prepare for the labour market, whether there are elections or not, and whether the MBO Council presents a pamphlet or not. I think the Minister is getting too much stuck in "I'm thinking about coming up with maybe a committee that's gonna investigate it to see if we might be in the future, just like in HBO..." In HBO, it took years for us to come to experiments with demand financing. That's what we're finally working on. We don't have time to take years in the MBO to figure out whether we want to do this at all. The VVD Group wants to move on. We don't want to wait for another cabinet period. There is now a statement by the majority of the Chamber that we want experiments with demand financing in the MBO. I would like the Minister to simply carry out that motion, precisely in the interests of the pupils. Can she promise that she will come up with a plan of action for Prinsjesdag, not to set up a committee but a plan of action so that the experiments with demand financing in the MBO will just get there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	I would hope that Mrs Lucas would be pleased with the commitment I have just made. That was partly on the basis of her motion. I say in so many words that I am going to work on it and that I am already working on it in other ways. Examples are working with certificates and ensuring that more modules can be used. We will also explore demand financing. However, that is not an easy matter. Mrs Lucas knows as well as I do that it has been quite complicated in higher education to get that right. I am also referring to the last point of the MBO Council, which deals with restraint in new regulations and where it is said that a huge number of policies have been developed to increase responsiveness, such as combined learning paths and choices. However, this has also led to many action plans, letters and regulations in the areas of funding, reporting, governance, enforcement, quality agreements and so on. So we have to take that into account. What can a school handle and how do we ensure that we hold the good energy where it is? I think that is exactly what we are doing. I will soon inform the Chamber more precisely how, among other things, I will implement Mrs Lucas' motion on demand financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	I look forward to the letter on the implementation of the motions, because it really cannot go fast enough. We must prepare for the future. A committee here and a committee there aren't gonna make the difference, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. Mr Rog has another question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	I ask the Minister what perspective she sees for young people who are currently receiving lessons at MBO 1 or MBO 2 levels. What professions can these young people do in the future? What is the Minister prepared to do to make it easier for these young people to accumulate, to complete training at a higher level? At the moment, that has become unattractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	What they can do depends on the direction in which they are trained and in which region they are in. It is precisely at the level of MBO 1 that we see that there is demand in many sectors. Mbo 2 and Mbo 3 are in many ways even more vulnerable. It depends very much on the region and on the level. So I cannot comment on this at the level of education. I also want students who have an MBO degree at levels 1 or 2 to be able to continue to develop. We are doing everything we can to encourage MBO schools to do so. We have changed part of the funding so that schools do not unintentionally leave young people in school for much longer than is necessary, but young people are trained in such a way that they also have the opportunity to move on to the labour market. That's why we're working on a professional degree. In short, everything is being done about it. That is what I will continue to focus on. Like Mr Rog, I believe that it is very important for this vulnerable group to be able to continue learning and, after a while in the labour market, for example, to be able to continue through a Lifelong Learning certificate.
