ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, of course, the full gallery and all those who follow us otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about a nice pension bill today. The Pension Act before us today clarifies how the works council has the right to consent to all important aspects of the pension change. This is, of course, important, because the pension is actually the most important secondary condition. If you don't think it's the most important, at least in the average collective agreement it's the most expensive. If the or would not have a say in this matter, why would he exist at all, I think sometimes. There were a number of gaps in the law. Those gaps have actually been remedied well with the legislative proposal and with the letter of amendment. It's good to revisit the entire route. Two years ago, we proposed something similar in a law, which might not have gone all alone. So I understood that the government said not to do so immediately, but after an ESC opinion and a legislative process something almost identical comes out. So how could I be disgruntled? However, a few questions remain open after the written treatment on technical aspects that can have proper, direct effects. The works council therefore actually has the right of assent on all aspects. The word 'direct' has been deleted; I believe that colleagues will be discussing it in a moment. This means that the works council is always entitled to consent. First of all, a small question: does this also apply to totally trivial things such as the payment period of the pension premium? I can imagine that an average employer who agrees to a different payment scheme does not talk about that very much. However, I do have a question following the recent MSD judgment in Den Bosch, which modified the valuation basis. This seems to be a gap, which means that the or has no right of assent and that the pension claims go down significantly, because that is an agreement between the employer and the pension fund. Is it wise to bring that under the control of the law? Or is that part of the functioning of the law? The following is the right of advice in the case of directly insured schemes. This law leads to a right of consent on all aspects of a voluntary pension fund; it does not matter whether it is in the APF or in a pension fund, or whether it is housed with an insurer. With a large pension fund, such as Metal, the Building or the ABP, there is of course no right of consent, because it is legally imposed. But why is the directly insured scheme not integrated into the law and remains the subject of a covenant? Would it be possible to place that here too? The next point concerns the emigrate of a pension fund. An article in the original bill stated that there is an explicit right of consent when a pension fund goes abroad. In the note following the report, the Secretary of State says that this is not really necessary on second thought, because then you change the performer and, at the time you change the performer, you have the right to consent. I would like to be confirmed that a pension fund cannot leave the Netherlands in any way without giving its consent. We are prepared to re-introduce this clause if necessary. That clause states that it should be explicit, but perhaps it should be in more general terms, namely when you are covered by a different supervisory framework. As soon as you go into supervisory arbitrage and sit with your pension fund in Malta, Cyprus or Belgium, a participant should be able to find something in the eyes of the members of the CDA group. I have a question about closed pension schemes. This is all about open pension schemes, where a works council is a very logical representative of those in that scheme. As most pension schemes are in line with the rights of sleepers, pensioners and the active ones, they will be able to give good advice in themselves, which is also reasonably representative of the whole population. This will be different if a pension scheme is closed and a new pension scheme is opened for current employees. Then you have a closed pension scheme. These closed pension schemes will sometimes be re-insured or re-insured with an insurer or anywhere else. At that time, of course, the interests of the members of the works council who are active employees do not coincide with the interests of the people who are already retired. For example, if you re-insure without ever being able to index again, it might be nice for the current employees, because they can use the wage space for something else. If this is done with an already closed pension scheme, where would logically be the right to consent to go to reinsurance? I come to my very last question. These are schemes relating to a pension agreement. Why is not the word "pension contract" simply chosen, since it is a technical term that is also defined in the law? In the view of the CDA Group, this leads to less legal proceedings. We already have enough of these in retirement countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u3	I have a question because this debate also discusses the amendments tabled. Mr Omtzigt stressed the importance of participation in pension matters. I have tabled an amendment to give this right of assent to the Pvt (staff representation) in small businesses with between 10 and 50 staff members. Does Mr Omtzigt want that, too? I assume so, if he considers participation on the most important secondary working conditions to be so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u4	We are talking about the amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u5	Yes. I thought that was an interesting amendment, because there is indeed no obligation for companies with fewer than 50 employees to have a works council. A number of companies do have a works council and you are obliged to have a staff meeting if you do not have a works council. In this respect, therefore, I find it interesting that the staff meeting could say something about this. I am waiting for the opinion, because I must honestly say that I am just not sufficiently in the other rights of the staff associations to know for sure what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u6	For example, they have the right to consent on working hours, breaks and reintegration. These matters are at least as important as pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u7	Maybe retirement is more important than breaks. I think Mr Ulenbelt wanted to say the same. I'm looking at it with a positive feeling, but I'm just waiting for the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u8	The negotiations start early in the debate today. I call Mrs Vermeij on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr. Chairman. Short and good: this is a bill that repairs a gap. Mr Omtzigt has actually said that. We started this discussion a year or two ago during the debate on the whole governance of the pension system. We can therefore support this proposal. I am going to be very brief, because we have very few questions about it. In fact, I thought my colleague Omtzit's question on the closed funds was a very good one, so I would like to join in on that. I also have a question about the foreign route. My group would like to make sure, by means of the letter of amendment, that it has the right of assent with regard to the relocation of a pension fund. I also wonder what happens if the move has already taken place and there has been no right of consent from the or. Then the corridor automatically leads to the canton court, but then what happens? The pension fund has since been moved abroad. Since there are always hooks and eyes on it and we are wondering how this right of assent is going to work, I think it would be wise to look at it for two years to see whether we have really got it right and whether we have missed something. We can do that very well. We do not follow all the advice of the ESC. The question is whether the scope is sufficient and whether it will actually work. I also miss an evaluation clause in this respect. It does not necessarily need to be anchored in the law; this can also be done with a commitment. However, it seems very good to me to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u10	I see Mr De Graaf walking to the speaker's seat, but the floor is really up to Mr Ulenbelt of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr. Chairman. Ulenbelt is indeed the name. In the Dutch polder you assume that a decent employer conducts a proper consultation with his works council and with the unions about the pension scheme. Shell didn't do that a few years ago. It set up a new pension fund for new employees, without the agreement of the works council and without consultation with the unions. This played in 2013. At the request of the Chamber, the Secretary of State then spoke with the central works council and Shell's management. It then insisted that the Executive Board resume consultations with the Central Works Council. However, Shell's board rejected that. The central works council now has a procedure in place at the College of Human Rights to obtain a ruling on whether there is discrimination. Shell could do this because of a gap in the Works Councils Act. That gap is being repaired right now, and Shell got a slap on the wrist. I agree with Mrs Vermeij's question: what does this law mean for the case Shell? Can Shell just keep going? Or can we derive from this law the right to say to Shell: go back into your loft? The latter would mean that Shell not only got a hit afterwards, but that that tap actually has an effect. For many people, the pension is the biggest savings they build. It's deferred pay, so controlling the pension agreement is of great importance to your future. More and more pension funds are considering moving to Belgium. This bill states that such a move requires the approval of the works council. This morning we read in Het Financieele Dagblad that the pension fund of ExxonMobil is moving to Belgium, with the permission of the works council. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that on 6 May 2014 the Minister of Finance said that he considered the relocation of funds abroad, in this case Belgium, to be irresponsible. That was his reaction to Aon's intention to move to Belgium at the time. Aon is also a pension advisor; we should not forget that. I can imagine that if Aon chooses the road to Belgium, it will advise companies to follow that route as well. The Minister of Finance found that irresponsible. I'm very curious to know what the Secretary of State thinks about that. Will the government accept the pension fund flight to Belgium or will the State Secretary take measures to make this pension fund flight impossible? So, does the Secretary of State think that's irresponsible, too? If she also finds it irresponsible, what measures does she take to stop that flight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u12	I see some members jumping up. I think Mr Van Weyenberg was just a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u13	On whether or not they should go to Belgium, you can have all kinds of opinions, I say as half Belgian. I note, however, that every time I want something in which the social partners have a responsibility, I hear from Mr Ulenbelt that I am not allowed to interfere, because it is up to them to decide. But in the event that Mr Ulenbelt quotes now, the company and the staff representation, the works council, want it itself. I am just looking for: where does Mr Ulenbelt say the primacy is? Should politics overrule the social partners? Do I understand Mr Ulenbelt's appeal so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u14	If you start with a caricature of my point of view and then fight that caricature, you always come out well. Of course, employers and employees are very important in the Netherlands, I call them bosses and unions, but like Mr Van Weyenberg I am not tied to the agreements they make. There's plenty of appointments I've been criticizing. I ask the Secretary of State what the government's opinion is on the transfer of funds to Belgium. The Minister of Finance found it irresponsible. What does the Secretary of State think about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u15	It is striking that Mr Ulenbelt is now suddenly using very different words. He was just trying to stop it, but now he's talking about asking questions. I notice that Mr Ulenbelt is backing down a little bit. I have come to the conclusion that, while Mr Ulenbelt is still in our Chamber, I have an example to say, every time he accuses me of going over social partners, that you do so yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u16	No, I really have to respond to this. Mrs Lodders has also asked questions about this and Mr Omtzigt has also been critical of this. I also asked questions about it. If a fund moves abroad, it is to the detriment of the employees and the Dutch taxpayer. I think we should keep them here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u17	This is kind of interesting. In Mr Ulenbelt's example, they have done it entirely according to the law we are dealing with, and yet he does not agree with it. Isn't he curious why they're going to Belgium and the or agreed to do so? That could be because the potential is more for the participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u18	Those are exactly the questions I asked. In the meantime, many pension legislation in the Netherlands against which the SP was opposed has been put forward as an argument to go to Belgium so that it can be indexed earlier and the pension is better. If that's true, I can understand one of those works councils. This means that it is one major criticism of pension legislation in the Netherlands. Pensions are falling and pension funds are fleeing. Is that what the Secretary of State wants with the pension system in the Netherlands? That was the best thing ever, but now there is a flight and we see a pension discount. That an enterprise then does things I wouldn't be for... It is very damaging to the Netherlands if we open the door wide to the flight of pension funds to Belgium, Malta or anywhere else. We have to keep them here. It is money from Dutch workers and this must be protected under Dutch law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u19	I understand that Mr Ulenbelt understands the works council well and that he is having another debate here. I would like to have that debate with him once again, and I also have a number of questions about this, but I think today we are talking about the consent of the works council and not about the comparison between the pension systems of the Netherlands and Belgium. In my opinion, there is still much to ask and say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u20	I took the liberty of talking about this. After all, the right of consent to move to Belgium is here. The Minister of Finance said in 2014 that it is irresponsible to evade Dutch legislation on this issue. I now think it is an excellent time to ask the State Secretary on pensions whether she agrees with the Minister of Finance that it is irresponsible. If it's irresponsible, doesn't the government have to do something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr Ulenbelt continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u22	There are also companies without a works council but with a pension scheme. If they are members of an occupational pension fund, control and participation are regulated. However, not all companies covered by the obligation or which do not have collective agreements have a works council. That is why I have tabled an amendment aimed at giving the staff representation we know in the Works Council Act the right of assent on pension matters. The rights of staff representatives are considerably less than those of the works council, but if there are substantial issues such as working time and health, reintegration and so on, they have the right to consent. We all consider pensions to be very important, and that is why I propose that staff representation be given this right of assent. I hope that the Secretary of State agrees with me and if she does not agree with me, that at least my colleagues agree with me and that they will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u23	If Members wish to say something that they believe should be recorded in the Acts or be able to be heard at home, they should use the microphone. If not, it'll just be a little college talk. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr. Chairman. A brief input. My sincere apologies to Mr Ulenbelt for trying to push for this; I have looked wrong on the list. We are talking about the works councils and their involvement in the labour-conditional aspects of the pension scheme. The PVV wants the supporters of a fund, participants and pensioners to be involved as much as possible in pension changes. It is a good idea that a works council should be given more powers if a pension agreement is amended. The pension is there for the employees; it is deferred wages of the employees. This has been said before today. When these workers retire, they want to be able to rely on it. That is why we are discussing the pension system. I have a few questions about this proposal. What is and is not the matter of the works council in the present changes? The explanatory memorandum states: "The proposed amendment will have the effect of giving the OR the right to consent to any proposed decision establishing, amending or repealing a scheme relating to the pension agreement, whether or not the pension provider is a pension fund, an insurer, a contribution pension institution or a foreign exporter." There is one exception, i.e. that the right to consent is not granted if the subject matter is already governed by a collective agreement or by a regulation of working conditions laid down by a public body. In other words, some are determined by agreements between the social partners. However, we believe that these agreements also apply to workers. For example, should the or not have a say in the choice of the pension holder and parts of the pension regulations? After all, that's their business too. We would like a clarification from the Secretary of State on this one point. Furthermore, the PVV sees few objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr. Chairman. A lot of people save part of their salary for later, retirement. Retirement is deferred pay and therefore it is an important condition of employment. Employers and employees are jointly responsible for the implementation of this employment condition. In the case of non-collective undertakings, participation is regulated through the works council. An employer may, in certain situations, decide to change the pension scheme, where the works council has no influence on the proposed decision. Since the decision to change the pension scheme may have an impact on the pension, it is not desirable for employees not to have a say in it. This is a gap in the current law, to which the previous speakers have also referred. The right of assent of the works council should be about the adoption, modification and/or withdrawal of a pension contract, in so far as this may have a direct impact on pension and working conditions. The present amendment of the law will solve that. This can be supported by the VVD Group. I do have a few questions for the Secretary of State. Have all the gaps with this change of law been resolved? Is it now clear for all parties, the employer and the employees/entrepreneurs council, when and when no right of consent applies to the parts of the implementation agreement? I am asking this question because the letter of amendment states that consent may be required for all matters in the implementation agreement or the implementing rules affecting the employment condition pension. Mr Omtzigt also pointed out that the direct explanation was deleted from the last letter of amendment. This can lead to uncertainty, but also to the extension of the right of assent. If this is not sufficiently clear, processes will be more difficult. This could lead to delays in decision-making. The VVD also wants to prevent a accumulation of participation. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? And is she prepared to mention Mrs Vermeij for two years in the coming period, but a year can also be able to monitor developments and inform the Chamber in particular about this part? I can leave it at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a legislative amendment which will give works councils more say in the pension of employees. This concerns cases where there are no agreements in the collective agreement and, where appropriate, a compulsory pension fund. It is clear that my group will support this law because it removes a gap and gives workers the reins in cases where they are not involved in collective bargaining. The original bill contained two points that we were concerned about. Our main concern was that consent would only apply to the transfer of a pension fund abroad, and not to a change within the Netherlands. In my group's view, this was contrary to the free movement of services within the European Union, and thus contrary to the law. I am pleased that this has changed in the letter of amendment and that the right of assent has been extended. I think that's a good thing. The word "direct" has also been deleted. I understand that colleagues have concerns about possible ambiguity, but adding the word "direct" could, of course, also lead to a great deal of confusion. My belief is that it may have been widened by making this general now, but it has also become clear. Otherwise, I think we would have had whole debates in the sense of: because the word 'direct' is in it, you have no role to play. I agree with that, but I think it would be a good idea for the Secretary of State to elaborate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u27	I now hear Mr Van Weyenberg commenting that it would be good if the Secretary of State were to comment on this. My question was precisely in the following. I hear from the pension field that if you delete "directly," the right of consent could be extended and that all parts of the implementing agreement could be called for consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u28	My basic attitude is that when things change that have a real impact on the interests of participants, I find the right of consent the desired direction. On the contrary, the possible limitation by the word 'direct' raised many questions for my group. I look forward to the answer, but I believe that the right of consent is aimed at everything that has an impact on the future pension and how it is organised. I think Mrs Lodder's concern is slightly greater than mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u29	We will await the answer by the Secretary of State on this point. I am very interested in the position of the D66 Group. As far as my group is concerned, it cannot be the case that the implementation agreement should give consent to all aspects where responsibility lies with the pension administrator. If the D66 Group is in favour of this, it is good to make that clear in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u30	I don't think that was the plea I made. I did say that there is a role in things that really have an impact on participants. I was able to read all about Mrs Lodder's concerns in the written round. That made me feel like it was okay. I will, of course, listen to the answer. Apparently, Mrs Lodders has not yet been reassured. Of course, that's her right. I have a number of questions, first of all about representativeness. The works council represents employees, but not former members and beneficiaries. Can the Secretary of State explain a little more about how they are involved in important matters? In the past, I had discussions with the Secretary of State on the participation of pensioners, after which she introduced limits which, as far as I am concerned, would have been more generous. The answer in the documents that the works council is also supposed to be speaking for former workers was too fast. I'd like to get a little more explanation on that. In the case of arrangements where there is a collective agreement, the social partners continue to make decisions through this collective agreement. We'll see that the representation rate is falling. That worries me. In the written debate, my group and other groups asked for the following. Is there a lower limit in which you say: "actually, there is so little representativeness in the collective agreement agreements that we should include them"? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Finally, how do we prevent the law from becoming a paper tiger? By the way, you didn't turn on my bell again, Mr. President. Of course, I find that joyful, but you may be less. There can, of course, always be differences of opinion about the right of assent. Mrs Lodders and I had a debate on it just now. Indeed, the boundary between the content of the pension scheme and its implementation is not always easy to lay. In the event that the employer has not requested agreement where he should have done so, the decision shall be void, provided that the works council makes a written appeal to nullity within one month. After this, the employer can go back to court, if we understand correctly. That procedure seems a bit cumbersome to me. A works council must deal with this within a month. How do we prevent, knowing that the employer probably has a great information origin, that the law has less impact in practice than the Secretary of State is aiming for? From discussions with works council organisations, we have the impression that they fear that few works councils would dare to adopt such a procedure for annulment. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Does it see any possibility of strengthening the position of works councils in this regard? Otherwise, due to all kinds of complexity, they may be 2-0 behind. All in all, my group is satisfied. We consider transparency and greater control to be a great asset, precisely about such an important employment condition as pension. For a lot of people, it's the biggest piggy bank they have. The time when pension funds or employers could only say "trust us," must be a thing of the past. This is a first step towards a system in which we make people much more fundamental boss of their own pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u31	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to prepare her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their positive contribution. In fact, all Members have said that this law helps. It is important that employees have the right to consent to proposed decisions by the employer when it comes to pensions. This legislative proposal regulates this for the establishment, modification or withdrawal of the pension scheme, regardless of the type of pension administrator. Obviously, I'm happy about that. Mr President, with your permission, I intend to pass on the contributions of the spokesmen. A number of questions have been put to me and an amendment has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt to which I would like to comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u33	I'll allow you to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u34	Very pleasant, thank you very much. I shall begin with Mr Ulenbelt's amendment, which has already been debated by Members. Mr Ulenbelt also wants to give workers of smaller companies the right to consent to the employment pension. These are companies between 10 and 50 employees who do not have a works council. These medium-sized employers would then be obliged to seek agreement from the staff representatives or, in the absence of such agreement, from the staff at a staff meeting. I think that is a sympathetic idea in itself, but it is important to find out how this relates to the system of the Works Councils Act. Staff representation in small businesses currently has a limited number of rights of consent. The staff at the staff meeting has no right of assent at all, but only advisory rights. So we really need to find out the effect of such a substantial extension of the right of assent. What does it mean for the burden on small employers and what requirements does it impose on staff expertise? I would therefore very much like to ask the ESC for its opinion on this. Once again, I think it is a nice amendment, but I must advise against it now. We can't change the law on this right now. A number of things really need to be worked out. I would like the law to be put to the vote, so I would like to ask for advice on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u35	I see that Mr Van Weyenberg wishes to intervene, although it concerns Mr Ulenbelt's amendment. I gave him the floor at first, but he used it to walk the other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mr Ulenbelt does this more often when D66 makes suggestions. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's own appreciation. Where exactly is it going? Doesn't such a staff representation have an advisory right now? I'd like to hear some more details. We may have to vote later on on this amendment, which also sounds sympathetic to me. Will the Secretary of State reach a different verdict if it only applies to the official pvt and not to such a meeting? [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb de SER hoog zitten, maar om nu alles afhankelijk te maken van de SER, gaat mij wat ver.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u37	Is pvt for staff association or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u38	As I said, it represents staff representation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u39	I said for a reason that even smaller companies would like to know how the staff feel about changes around the pension. I think that is a very sympathetic idea in itself, but it is really too short a time when we put that into this law immediately and without delay by amendment. We cannot overlook the repercussions at all. I need advice from the ESC on this, as I did with this law. It is also a helping hand to the initiator, and I do so because I think it is an amendment with a sympathetic undertones.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u40	Nothing to the detriment of the ESC, but it seems now almost as if every right of amendment is being conditioned, because the ESC must also like it. That's not my direction. Would the State Secretary's opinion change if Mr Ulenbelt's amendment were to deal only with the current official staff representation and not with the staff meeting? I am asking because the Secretary of State put great emphasis on this in the first part of her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u41	No, that would not really change my view in that sense. We are talking about works councils in the context of the Works Councils Act, and the amendment, of course, aims to give consent to smaller staff units. For that, we really need to figure out a few things. For example, we need to know what it means for the company as such, the employer, the capacity of the staff representatives and, of course, for the expertise of those representations. I really think we should do this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u42	I have not yet heard a concrete assessment of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u43	I have already given my opinion on the amendment that is now before us. That's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u44	There are a lot of staff representatives who are very competent, because they also deal with complex issues such as work and health, working hours and shiftwork. They all have to, and I think that's why they can do it. But, of course, I also have to count my buttons, because if the Secretary of State does not recommend an amendment, I know how it ends here. Let me take my chance and withdraw the amendment. I will only do so if the Secretary of State gives the positive attitude she expresses here to the ESC.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u45	Oh, yeah! Of course, I have asked the Economic and Social Committee at first instance to advise us on this bill as well. This has resulted in commendable opinions which I have taken into account in the proposal. I will do exactly the same with the ideas of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u46	Under this condition... I see Mrs. Lodders standing up. Is that to help me get a majority? If so, I might be able to arrange it today. I see from her that it does not look like that, and that is why I am withdrawing the amendment under that condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u47	The Ulenbelt amendment (Doc. 8) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u48	The Secretary of State makes a commitment. It's always good to map something like this. As far as I am concerned, she has to go a little further. If what is laid down in the ESC relates only to pensions, it may be that there will be more powers of the works council for the staff representatives. I therefore really want to know the full extent of the impact of this on both staff representation and employers. Only when it's in the picture can I judge it. So we shouldn't get half an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u49	Yes, we can take that with us. Fine. We are, of course, focusing on pensions in the context of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u50	I meant it a little less enthusiastic. If we give this kind of consent to a staff representation, the powers that currently apply to the works council, but not to the staff representatives, could soon apply to all aspects. It is very doubtful whether this is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u51	I understand that very well. Again, I have interpreted the amendment in such a way that we are now focusing on pensions. I will continue with some of Mr Omtzigt's questions. He bit off at the beginning, and I would like to stress to the Acts that he did so two years ago. Thanks to him, of course, the right of assent of the works council has become what it is now in the pension file. Honor who deserves credit! Is the right of consent applicable in the case of implementing agreements on everything and, if so, does this include the payment scheme of the pension premium? The main rule is: in principle, no right of agreement on the execution contract, unless there is an impact on the pension agreement. A payment period of the pension premium is not included, and that must be clear. More questions have been asked about this and I shall now go into them briefly. For example, Mrs Lodder has asked whether all the gaps have been closed and what the implementation agreement is about; that is actually the same question as Mr Omtzigt's. She also asks if I am prepared to monitor the period ahead, as Mrs Vermeij also asked. The answer to that is yes. Mrs Vermeij mentioned a period of two years. I think that's excellent. I think that is a good time to look very closely at how these things work out, also in the context of the implementation agreement. So that's fine. Mr Van Weyenberg also drew attention to this. In the implementation agreement, for example, you can think of criteria for payment, a scheme for determining the contribution and the choice of a particular pension provider. These are all examples in this context. Mr Omtzigt asked why this legislation uses the word "schemes" instead of "agreements." We have followed the terminology of the ESC. These are pension arrangements. I hope this doesn't cause any noise on the line. We have therefore followed the terminology of the ESC in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u52	The terminology of the ESC has been followed in the relevant article of law, but not in the relevant definitions of the Pension Act. The Pension Act still refers to "a pension agreement" and "a pension regulation," as well as to "a pension agreement." They're defined. However, the article refers to "a regulation relating to'. What "in relation to" and "in relation to" mean is, of course, legal hair-clubbing, but the pension lawyers I speak to can show me all kinds of small differences on the basis of which you could have very nice lawsuits. Is the Secretary of State prepared to include the SER definition in the article by means of a letter of amendment to the Pension Act, or to include the current definition of the Pension Act in the article, or to clarify the difference in the Chamber? That would matter to a number of lawsuits. Then the colleague of the Secretary of State on Security and Justice is happy again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u53	I'm picking up the glove. Let's take a look at what's most obvious. I will inform the Chamber of that. We are going to see how we can prevent such hair clovering. I agree with Mr Omtzigt that it probably doesn't matter so much on the content, but that you can have a huge exchange of views on this. I imagine that a collectible law could be a foundation to settle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u54	Until that last sentence I thought: this is going well! I would like to receive a letter before the vote in which the Secretary of State describes the difference. In this legal process, in which this terminology has been chosen, it should be clear why this terminology has been chosen. If that means we vote one week later, it is not a big problem in itself, but we can figure that out before then, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u55	As I said, we have chosen this wording on the basis of the terminology used by the ESC, but I would like to see whether we can send further information to the Chamber on this point as soon as possible. If anything needs to be changed, we have a number of vehicles to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u56	I can also make a neutral suggestion: we could also suspend for another ten minutes, so that you can take it with you in the second term. It's up to you to decide whether that's going too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u57	I'm gonna take that under advisement. In itself, I think it's nice to put it on paper for a while. Then it's clear. Nevertheless, thank you for the suggestion. Where should the right of consent for reinsurance lie? That lies with the board of the pension fund and not with the employer. Since this cannot be a decision of the employer, there is also no right of consent of the employer. That's clear. I have also been asked why there would be no right of assent in the case of directly insured schemes. This bill also applies to directly insured schemes. If the employer wishes to establish, amend or withdraw the scheme, the employer has the right to consent. Then I come to the question by Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Vermeij to confirm once again that a pension fund cannot leave the Netherlands without the right of assent of the Council. To that, I say yes. So the Or really has a right of assent on this point. The choice for a pension administrator, including that for a foreign pension administrator, is subject to consent. I do not know how to put it any more firmly, but that has also been underlined for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u58	That's very clear. So I think it's clear to everyone. Now there may be a case in which it has not been consulted, so it has not given its consent, but where it has subsequently taken place. Then the corridor to the canton court is open. That canton judge will in many cases ask for an alternative, another solution. He'll say it should've happened first, so you're gonna figure something out. Does the Secretary of State have any idea how that's gonna work out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u59	That's, of course, But it is of course good practice that the judge always looks at what legislation has been cut and is also tapped by Parliament. Reactive force cannot be considered here. That must be very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u60	Apparently, I'm not expressing myself clearly. Suppose this bill was passed by Lower House and Upper House, and then entered into force, and suppose that then what we agreed by law does not happen. If the or then says that he would have wanted to know and would not have agreed, he must go to the canton court. What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u61	If the or goes to court because he has not been able to make full use of his consent, it is up to the court to say yes or no to that. If the judge were to say that the or indeed has a point, the employer would still have to sit down with the or.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u62	We already know some of these kind of statements. Then at least the canton court will be looking for the middle. What means does it have under this law to ensure that the decision is immediately reversed and that one stays in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u63	The fine thing about this law is that it still has to come into force, and it is clear to the judge that the works councils have the right to consent to these very important matters, namely pensions. The judge will undoubtedly involve this legislation as a basis for action. So things are changing in that respect, because this law wasn't there before. Employers were therefore able to say that this was done; this was also discussed in the debate and that they were sorry, but could still go abroad or do other matters concerning the pension without immediately involving the views of the participants, of the employees. So that's final.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u64	Finally. Would you at least include in your monitor what kind of judgments, if there have been court cases, are being made, especially with regard to that foreign route?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u65	Sure, follower. The position of pensioners and former members has also been requested. It must really take account of the interests of all workers, including ex-workers. Or-members I think some of us have also been members of an or-members well know that they themselves will one day be entitled to a pension or perhaps ex-participant. Thus, when an employee is no longer employed by the employer and is therefore a former participant or pension entitled, he no longer actually has a position towards the employer, but still has a formal position. That is why it is very logical that the interests should be taken into account, including those of ex-workers in the broad sense of the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u66	I argued something else. This is perfectly logical in a normal pension scheme. In addition, the interests are fairly parallel. If you have one pension scheme for the former employees and the current employees and everyone has an equal or no index, it also makes sense to me that the or co-decide on behalf of former employees. However, I am concerned about the situation in which an employer places the old rights in an old scheme and starts new arrangements for new workers. That's when the interests break up. When the employer decides to re-insure the old rights and never index them again, the old insured are affected by them and the current employees benefit from them because the unpaid premium can be used for higher indexation for their current pensions. At that time, the or is not at all representative to make a decision for the former participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u67	And your point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u68	In what way is it ensured that the former workers are taken into account at that time? Would it not be more logical at that time to apply a different right of consent if it has an effect on the content of the scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u69	That's a relevant question. This type of action has been prevented from being undertaken by employers. I could now very easily say that the members of a good works council realise that this can happen to them if they are former employees at any time. A good works council looks at all layers of course, but sometimes his jacket blows the way the wind blows. This means that I can follow Mr Omtzigt on his own, but it is simply not possible to give separate consent to former participants. Nor is this law applied. I really think that we should call on all works councils to look at all aspects, including those who have been pointed out, such as nobility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u70	A call like that is good. In areas where there is a harmonious agreement, such as an association of former workers, this will also be taken into account. The law is only intended for the situations in which there is a conflict. That's why there's a right of consent. This example is and will be more frequent in the future, since more and more employers are moving from a middle wage and a final wage scheme to an available premium scheme. So it is not a hypothetical case at all; this is going to happen on a large scale. My question is therefore whether the Secretary of State wishes to pay attention to this in one way or another, either in the letter or in the ESC request. Otherwise, we will have conflicts in the future that we can already foresee. This can also be done with the ESC's advice process on the new pension system, because it also implicitly raises the question of cutting everything off. This doesn't have to stop the legal treatment, but we have to mark this as something we'll have to pick up in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u71	That's really a point of attention. I think Mr Omtzigt's point is that one can start from time to time with a clean slate, leaving former participants somewhere behind, but their rights must be well anchored, very worthwhile in view of the new pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u72	Can I see this as a commitment to submit this question to the ESC, along with the other question? We leave it to the ESC at what point he will take that question, either in the opinion on the new system or in the already promised opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u73	I think that's a good suggestion. This is where I took it over. Mr Ulenbelt has put forward the case of Shell very clearly. I've actually already gone into that, but it's good to name it again. He recalled how that case was handled at the time. I have just said that with the new law there is no retroactive effect on this point. I would also like to say this briefly about this case. Mr Ulenbelt asked what the cabinet thought about the transfer of pension funds abroad, in this case Belgium. I have listened very carefully to the debate that is unfolding between the spokesmen. The aim is for the social partners to agree on the employment condition for retirement. I agree. If the employer and the works council decide that this law aims to give the works council a much better position together, it is in the interest of the participants that the fund should be placed elsewhere, then that is possible. There are, of course, safeguards for the protection of the Dutch participants. That is why we are blowing our party along with us in Europe. Of course you're looking at it, and I'm looking at it, but if the social partners choose that together, that's possible, sure. This naturally applies to occupational pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u74	I think that's a little bit short. I've been asking questions about this. During the course of the work, I made a point of answering these questions for next Tuesday. This is very specific about an employer and employees. However, there is another component, and in this respect I expect a firm attitude from the cabinet: pension funds avoid the Netherlands because of regulation. That's very bad. I hope that the cabinet will take a different view on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u75	Well, 'other opinion'... Certainly, I would like to answer the questions of you and Mr Ulenbelt very quickly after the weekend. I understand that this is what you have asked for in the regulation of work. Then, if appropriate, we can discuss this in general next week's discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u76	The general consultation is next Wednesday. I will not continue the debate now, because we do not have any answers to the questions asked. The Secretary of State mentioned "watching it with suspicion," but I expect this attitude from the Cabinet: how can we ensure that the Netherlands, with a great deal of expertise in the area of pensions, is a valuable country for other Member States to bring their pensions to? In my view, that should be the attitude of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u77	Sure. In the answer, we will show that you cannot, of course, compare things in this respect. We make it very clear under what conditions what can be done. For the sake of clarity, I think it is wise that my colleague in the finance department and I should answer the questions as soon as possible. I will even do my best to get that done tomorrow, because then the Members of Parliament will have the weekend to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u78	Good. So at least before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u79	On 6 May 2014, the Minister of Finance said that he felt it irresponsible for pension funds to move to Belgium or another country. Now the Secretary of State says, "I'm cool with it, so figure it out with the works councils." However, that is a completely irresponsible attitude. If a fund had gone to Hungary, where the funds were later nationalized, it would have lost its money. I thought the Pension Act was designed to protect agreements made. But if a fund is in Belgium, then the Pension Act has nothing more to say! I hope that the Secretary of State will come to the conclusion when he answers the questions that the funds are going to Belgium for the wrong reasons and that she will stop doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u80	I think I have made it clear that, together with my colleague in the Finance Committee, I am putting one thing at the heart of the answer to the questions: the interest of the participant. That's the point, of course. The Court can therefore look forward to the answer. I'd like to talk to the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u81	I hope it goes the right way, because how will it work with that company that has put the pension in Malta for 80 people from Oldenzaal? We don't know what's going on in there, do we? Nor do we know exactly what will happen in Belgium. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will find out all of this and then tell us that flights to Belgium for another purpose may be good, but not for your retirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u82	That is a beautiful song to which Mr Ulenbelt refers. I will make sure that the answer is with the Chamber very soon. Mr De Graaf asked what exactly the works council is about and why a collective agreement is in place at times. The system of the Works Councils Act states that the agreement of the social partners takes precedence over the consent of the works council when the subject matter is covered by the collective agreement. This is, of course, also sometimes the case for pensions. The collective agreement therefore goes beyond the right of assent of the works councils. Mr Van Weyenberg asked what would happen if the representativeness of the social partners in collective agreements was low. That is, of course, in the broad sense of the word. This is a question that Mr Van Weyenberg has often asked. Shouldn't the or have a role anyway? It has no role if the matter is governed by the collective agreement. I'm gonna stick with that. I understand that Mr Van Weyenberg says that he actually wants some sort of lower limit. Of course, we have debated this on many occasions, but we have a collective agreement here, and I think that is a very good thing in itself; Mr Van Weyenberg knows that from me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u83	I think that's a great thing, too, but the question is what you do when you fall through the lower limits of representativeness, which makes people in a works council say, for example, that they actually want something quite different. The Secretary of State has just said on two subjects that she will ask the ESC for further advice on this matter. As far as I am concerned, this is the third issue. What if they say somewhere: that collective agreement is not really representative of our company at all and we want to make other agreements with the staff, because it is below the lower limit? I am therefore curious about the view of the ESC on this point. I do indeed already have my own opinion on it, but perhaps the ESC will give me new ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u84	I'm not gonna step on that. Mr Van Weyenberg and I have discussed this on many occasions. I did a hand-picking to the Chamber on two parts towards the SER. At this point, there will be no hand-off from my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u85	I find that remarkable, because it became a bit of the company game in which everything we don't get out of now goes to the SER.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u86	This seems to me to be an excellent opportunity for your second term. The Secretary of State will answer you and you will find something, but this is not an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u87	I wasn't finished talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u88	No, but I'm establishing...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u89	You can determine everything, but I think I can simply introduce my questions in my own way. I might be saving you my second term, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u90	I yield to that last skill, but not to the earlier one. Interruptions are short, pointy questions. If it is easy to do so in the second term, and if it is a political judgement on the position of the cabinet, it is not always appropriate for an interruption. But let us not be too difficult about it; go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u91	No, Mr President, I also know the Rules of Procedure. I'd still like the Secretary of State's own judgment. What does she say to people who work in a company where the collective agreement is not really representative at all and who say by a large majority that they want to make an appointment? Does the Secretary of State say, "You can go down the tree"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u92	I hardly ever tell people that they can go down the tree, and certainly not these people. But, yes, a collective agreement is a collective agreement. It's gotten mixed up with these people, too. So it's the way it is. I have listened very carefully to Mr Van Weyenberg. I come to the last question from the Chamber that I have recorded. Mr Van Weyenberg felt that the WOR procedure in the courts was cumbersome. Can we in one way or another set them up in such a way that the position of the or is strengthened? I actually like this question as a swinger. Yes, this is the WOR procedure, but the SER makes an information document and I will point out to the SER that he can include this part in that document. I understand Mr Van Weyenberg's question very well. Mr President, I have come to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u93	The Secretary of State will monitor, including the court rulings. I ask the Secretary of State to include the preliminary phase. I fear that some of them may not even go to court. If that practice could be followed properly in the coming year, it would be worth a sweet thing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u94	Yeah, I think that's worth it. By the way, we said that we would take two years to monitor. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u95	This brings us to the end of the answer given by the Secretary of State. Let me see if there is a need for a short second term among Members. That is the case here and there. I should first like to give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers and commitments. I am very curious to know what advice we are getting on closed pension schemes. I would like to mention one small point. A works council is not a union, in the sense that the works council has the legal mandate to stand up only for the present employees. It is therefore not necessary to balance interests and is not bound by them. This is different with a trade union and with the board of a pension fund; they have to look after all stakeholders. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clarity with regard to Mrs Vermeij and myself that a pension fund cannot in any way move to another country without agreement. I am also very interested to hear the opinion on Mr Ulenbelt's amendment, because a company that is less than 50 employees can, of course, put its pension scheme somewhere else. And then a company like that grows. It is therefore important that these arrangements do not end in masse in Cyprus and Malta. For the CDA, there is still a difference between a company that is in two countries and wants to have a pension fund in one country. I really do understand that. For me, that is really a different situation than a 100% Dutch company that places its pension fund somewhere else, just like Dutch transporters who house all their employment contracts in Cyprus. That's not what I'm waiting for. But yes, if you have a half-Dutch, half-German company, I can imagine that you would like to place your administration in one place. But aside from that... I would have liked to have thought a little more about the European consequences, but I would like to do so during next week's debate, or I would like to ask a VAO about the IORP. We cannot, of course, deal with the whole European pension project during this debate on the works council. However, the opinion of the CDA Group is unchanged. The system is Dutch and should remain Dutch. After all, it is Dutch legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u97	With your permission, we'll turn the word "stakeholders" into "interested parties."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for embracing very positively the amendment on the right of assent at the staff representation and presenting it to the ESC for practical purposes. I have a proposal for my colleagues. I am a little concerned by the ease with which the Secretary of State said that it is up to the works council and the employer to decide whether the fund can go to Belgium, Cyprus or anywhere else. There are bigger interests. If Aon, who goes to Belgium himself, actively advise companies in the Netherlands to go to Belgium for this, that, sister or so, then we are destroying the Dutch system. I would like to propose to my fellow Members that we vote on this legislative proposal only after the general consultation and after the questions have been answered, so that, if necessary, we can table amendments on how to deal with the relocation of pension funds abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u99	It's not very common to make an order proposal from that place, but I'll allow it. Perhaps colleagues could respond to Mr Ulenbelt's proposal to vote not on Tuesday but on Tuesday. If, for whatever reason, this would lead to technical problems, it might be possible to do so next Thursday, but at least after the general consultation scheduled for next Wednesday. I would like to hear the reaction of Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u100	I wholeheartedly support Mr Ulenbelt's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u101	I'm looking a little bit questionable. We have a general discussion next Wednesday, and then we may be able to table motions. In my view, this is another legislative proposal, which at least eliminates a number of gaps in the Works Councils Act and in the Pension Act. I think that can go on. Moreover, the Secretary of State has said to Mr Omtzigt that there will be a letter on the concepts used in the present legislative proposal. In any case, the question is whether we can vote on this on Tuesday. So I doubt whether we should suspend this whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u102	Before we make it any more complicated: the Secretary of State has promised that if it succeeds she will send that letter to the Chamber before the weekend, and otherwise at the latest before the votes. There is therefore no prospect of a postponement of voting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u103	That is a very important question, Mr President. The pension concepts currently used in the law are taken over from the ESC. I share Mr Omtzigt's point, namely that it is obvious to bring it into line with the law. If there's a letter of amendment, we'll need a little more time, but that doesn't have to take very long, unless we opt for a law of sweeping. But that does make it problematic. I would like this law simply to be put to the vote. As far as I am concerned, this can happen next Tuesday, Thursday or next Tuesday, but at least around that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u104	You therefore support the proposal, provided that it is put to the vote within two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u105	If a colleague asks for any vote to be postponed, and there is no great urge behind it, we may well have a week's delay, even if I did not necessarily have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u106	I agree with Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u107	I hesitate. There's already a majority, so it doesn't really matter. If a colleague wishes to do so, I am always prepared to postpone. However, I cannot judge until I have seen that letter and received the answers to the questions. I find it strange to put that question to the Chamber at the moment. Anyway, I'd prefer to vote next week. And if there is no other way on Tuesday, but that is, as far as I am concerned, the deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u108	I will make a proposal at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u109	Why am I bringing this up? We always get answers to our questions from the Ministry of Social Affairs in time, unless there is a problem outside the door. The questions put by Mrs Lodders and me have not been answered within the time limit set. They're coming now. It's about the question of being able to go abroad. The Minister of Finance said at the time that he thought that was irresponsible. The Secretary of State says otherwise now. I do not think that we should deal with a law which implicitly takes that judgment into account. If we take the space until after next week's AO, I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u110	I think we had discussed this point, but now that you start again, I will give Mrs Vermeij the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u111	Now I withdraw my support for the order proposal. I am very sorry, but Mr Ulenbelt is having another debate here. This is a debate to be held next week during a general discussion. We are now discussing a bill that will regulate something for the works councils. So I say no to Mr Ulenbelt. We have that debate on Wednesday with more spokesmen. Then we will see if that debate has any consequences. We can simply vote on this proposal, as it stands, with the Secretary of State's commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u112	I agree with that. We'll have an AO next week. That could lead to a VAO. That's where motions can be filed. Then we have the opportunity to make the call for legislation to be transposed by means of a law of sweeping.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u113	In concrete terms, therefore, you will come back to your commitment just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u114	I'm not really getting back to that. We are also waiting for the letter in response to Mr Omtzigt. So we can vote next week, unless the Secretary of State's letter is a little later, because then we'll vote the next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u115	I shall make a proposal at the end of the deliberations, after hearing this discussion. I note that Mr Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg have waived their second term. Then I'd be happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u116	Mr. Chairman. Thanks again to the members of the Chamber. It seems to me that it would be a good time to explain exactly what we have to look at together in the next few days. I have promised the members of the Chamber, particularly Mr Ulenbelt and Mrs Lodders, that I, together with my colleague, will try to have the answer to their written questions with the Chamber tomorrow. These are the written questions that do not relate to this bill, but the answers should be for general consultation with the Chamber. Mrs. Lodders didn't ask for this for nothing. I'll do my utmost to do that, but, again, this doesn't interact with this bill. I have promised Mr Omtzigt that I will send a letter to the Chamber for the votes next Tuesday on the terminology of this bill so that it can be synchronised as much as possible. I agree with him that we should not have any noise on the line at this point. That's two different things that got cut. I would like to stress this once again from the cabinet. If I have listened carefully to the Chamber, we all believe that it is a good idea to extend the right of assent of the works councils to pensions as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. You will understand that I am in favour of voting as soon as possible if the letter to Mr Omtzigt does not raise any further questions. This is the case with regard to the procedure as such. Then Mr Omtzigt asked another question about the balance of interests. We have already thought about this in the first place. We must also have the courage to look further at closed pension schemes. Mr Omtzigt says that there is no need for a balanced balance of interests on this point. In practice, however, the members of the or will be well aware that they will also once be entitled to a pension or become ex-worker. The Or will probably look at those interests. However, this is a point of attention and Mr Omtzigt and I have already exchanged the view that this really belongs in the future pension debate. Then this will probably get cut more often. Actually, no further questions have been asked. So my second term may be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u117	I'm gonna take a look around and see if this goes for everyone. It does not seem to apply to Mr Ulenbelt of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u118	The Secretary of State says it has nothing to do with moving abroad, but it has everything to do with that. After all, the law states that you can move abroad if you have the agreement of the or. One of the questions asked is whether it is wise to make it possible to move in the Netherlands at all. In that sense, it has everything to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u119	Isn't this a little repetition of moves, Mr Ulenbelt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u120	Yeah, but if the Secretary of State makes a mistake, I think it's my expensive duty to correct that. But, yes, a majority does not want to postpone voting, so I have to come up with another trick.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u121	This brings back all sorts of reactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u122	The core is that you can move abroad already. This law ensures that you will not be able to do this again without the agreement of the works council if you have more than 50 employees. In this sense, Mr Ulenbelt is now doing a bit of violence to the truth, but he is free to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u123	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u124	I would add that if something really needs to be changed in the law, it is primarily the Pension Act which lays down the conditions under which companies could do so. That has nothing to do with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u125	I would like to draw attention to another point. There is another question on my side, the question about the court of Den Bosch. Will the Secretary of State please come back to that at a given moment in writing? I would like to add to the Minutes that this does not have to be done before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u126	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-10.u127	I thank the Secretary of State. Having heard everything and having heard the discussion, I propose that we vote next Tuesday. I would point out that prior to the vote there is still an arrangement of work. Should the letter give rise to a postponement, it may be raised during that arrangement. We shall then see whether and, if so, with which ruse Mr Ulenbelt comes.
