ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u1	I welcome the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are already 20 months on after the Action Programme Integrated Approach to Jihadism presented by the government in August 2014. This is a very long period in which no use could be made of the measures that are now being proposed. This is painful in itself, but what makes it particularly painful is that the really necessary measures are still not being taken. I am talking about criminalising residence on terrorist-controlled territory and the return of jihad-goers to detention. No, people who are willing to blow themselves up and drag countless citizens into it will soon be banned and banned from contact. Wow. And maybe they even get a notification obligation and an anklet. Thus banning the person concerned from a particular area or place will seriously impede him in preparing or committing, for example, an attack, according to the explanatory statement. If it wasn't all so horrible, I'd laugh about it. Not only the CDA group is critical, but also the mayor of Amsterdam and those of The Hague, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the national police have indicated that the bill does not go far enough to intervene in areas where radicalisation and a radical thought are present. According to the written advice accompanying the bill, there is clearly a gap between what mayors, agents and prosecutors think they need in practice and what the cabinet is prepared to give them. The sunny thought that we will have world peace in five years' time also shows little sense of reality. Of course, we changed that crazy right out of it. Of course, this law, which allows for far-reaching measures, must be evaluated, but that simply applies to every law. I come to the discussion of the content of the law itself. First of all, I will deal with the restrictive conditions in the context of national security. The CDA Group wants the government to focus on preventing people from becoming dangerous and not to intervene only when there is a danger. At an early stage, the breeding ground of radicalisation must be recognized and immediately smothered in the bud. This requires and advises that the link with national security is not made too firm. However, this cannot be changed. I didn't. That requires a very different view. This concerns me with the Minister. In the consultation round, the College of Attorneys General writes, so the Public Prosecutor's Office: in what way is a single person who suddenly leaves his beard, who wears a djellaba and visits a not well-known mosque and who is even known to listen to a hate-preaching imam, a danger to national security? The government's response to this is that the use of freedom-limiting measures in this example is not simply justified. We had to chew on that, because that is of course true. The immediate handcuffing of someone in broad daylight by an arrest team is not at all what we have in mind. But let's go through with that. If police, justice and mayors have a well-founded feeling of unrest among people they monitor and investigate and conclude that a ban on contact with certain imams, a ban on territory at a controversial mosque or perhaps a duty of notification would be desirable, shouldn't they be given space? We have to realize that what we see is often just the tip of the iceberg. A lot takes place in the hidden, as we have learned by now. Will the Minister acknowledge that there may also be a need for action in such areas? If so, the proposal before us is inadequate. There must be a whole pattern of behaviour before, for example, a notification obligation, a ban on territory or a ban on contact can be imposed. That can be worrying, because incidents and one-off calls and actions can pose a threat. Think of waving IS flags and demonstrating in the summer of 2014. But the one-off calls for terrorist violence can also be very risky. Shouldn't you want to intervene? Are these not the cases where you say that the government should perhaps be able to take action? The special thing is that the withdrawal of a grant or a licence is possible if an extremist speaker is invited once. So the first question is: is it absolutely necessary that this blanket of national security should always be over? Or under certain circumstances, should you be able to see if there's anything you can do earlier? We really had to push and pull this cabinet in order to do something more than just a ban or a reporting obligation. Eventually, the minister switched sides and came with the anklet. It's something, but it's still a naive ideal picture. Electronic surveillance is fully relied on to monitor radicalised individuals. However, we know that a judge who previously imposed this was ultimately empty-handed, because the person who had been given an anklet had left and eventually died in Syria. So it doesn't work! Is this not just for returned Syrians too thin? We got a letter about the latest investigation. In it you can read what happens when people are received in Syria: the men are separated from the women and they are immediately deployed in a training for terrorism. Surely it can't be that we think we can control the people who return with an anklet? Then the proposal we have made together with the VVD for criminalising residence in such an area is absolutely necessary, isn't it? Unless we ensure that people who come here are monitored more closely in one way or another, with also a restriction of freedom, where the judge also plays an important role. The naivety of that anklet doesn't really pass here. Then there are a few measures that we are absolutely enthusiastic about. Administrative bodies will soon be given the opportunity to reject applications for grants, licences, exemptions and recognitions or to withdraw decisions. This will prevent the unintended contribution of the public authorities to terrorist activities through grants, permits, exemptions and recognitions. This point came up in the mosque in Utrecht the other day, and there was also a desire to intervene. All kinds of organisations, welfare organisations, a children's website, language and Islam lessons played this role. We want to know whether municipalities are actively encouraged to use them and how municipalities are advised on how best to do so. What's the contact with the Ministry about that? Then I have another amendment that I will discuss right away. That amendment concerns the power of decision. All decisions relating to the ban and the like have been taken by the Minister on his own behalf. He has the power to impose measures. We have proposed that these powers should, if necessary, be temporarily and swiftly deposited with the mayor. After all, the mayor is the key figure in terms of security in the region and the one who already has an important role to play in imposing bans on contact and territory. After all, it is a strange idea that the Minister of Security and Justice, after consultation, is the one who decides that someone should report to the police station, if we know that such decisions are always fed from the local triangle? In his reply, the Minister also stressed the importance of cooperation between the authorities at local level and the security services. Shouldn't it be the case that in the event of acute danger, a mayor himself can do something? In particular, in an acute situation, the Minister laid down that competence solely on his own behalf, and therefore with little contact. The CDA group wonders whether it is not very important to place the mayor more firmly in that. I had also promised to ask a question on behalf of Mr Segers, because the Christian Union cannot be here, but has an important point. What can the mayor in The Hague do acutely when people are showing radical thoughts by waving flags, calling for everything and putting all the radical ideas down? What can the mayor of The Hague soon do what he couldn't do the last time he saw what happened in his city, The Hague? That was my commitment to the Christian Union. Then there is capacity and financial resources. The financial constraints in the security and intelligence services continue to give rise to concerns. The Chamber awaits the Spring Note and the new budget with Princess Day to see what additional funds the Ministry will soon be willing to deploy throughout the safety chain. So far all the solutions that have been put forward have been a bit of a string. The Secretary of State has already announced that 50 additional people will join the Royal Marechaussee, to assist in the summer at Schiphol Airport. We understand that these are being removed elsewhere in the country. That's never supposed to happen, is it? Then what is true of strengthening the safety chain? We have seen it before when strengthening police capacity in the South of the Netherlands, for tackling serious crime. This one was pulled away elsewhere, too. So, what's the specifics about this report on the marshalssee? The Minister says that 50 fte are removed from customs, the Judicial Institutions Service and by an internal redeployment at the KMar. What is the real cost of this? How does the Minister see this? How is he actually going to ensure that services are strengthened? At the beginning, I said something about the temporality of the law. We cannot really understand why the government has chosen to automatically abolish the law after five years, especially since it itself states that it has no reason to believe that this terrorist threat will disappear in a few years' time. Isn't it true that everything you devote to expertise and experience is then destroyed when you say that by definition this law is only valid for five years? Shouldn't you just put that down firmly to make sure it's all hands on deck, with a proper evaluation, to see if it's important? If then nothing seems to be possible or to happen at all, then you can see what you want with it. If you say it's five years now, everyone thinks after four years: well, it's another year, what am I supposed to invest in? That's such a wrong signal. This means that we have tabled an amendment to ensure that this crazy goes out. Finally, I would like to say something about cooperation. We often know very little about people. We are also not very useful in sharing the bit we know. On this point, I note that our border regions have additional concerns. They see municipalities that are partly on this side and partly in Belgium or in Limburg, and then just across the border with Germany and Belgium. How's the cooperation there? A very concrete plan has emerged in Limburg to look at a kind of euro-regional centre, where you can exchange information about radicalisation in those border municipalities. Can the Minister answer that? Or can the RIEC advocate a cross-border approach to have good contact with these border municipalities? That is a concern in our border municipalities. I think it is important to present that today. In short, the bill now before us is actually too little, too late. It's gonna be all we got, so for God's sakes, let's do this. For God's sake, it's actually a bad term. Let's do this. I would like to know whether the Minister still intends to leave it at that as far as the measures are concerned. Isn't he thinking about a firmer deprivation of liberty for people who really pose a danger? He merely makes a commitment to meet the Court's demand by setting up an ankle bracelet. I told you, if it wasn't so serious, it was laughable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u3	Mr. Chairman. A periodic reporting obligation, a ban on territory and a ban on contact: in the Schilderswijk, on Kanaleneiland and in other Islamic settlements in the Netherlands one shudders. The Minister's acting. And how. Indeed: a periodic reporting obligation, a land ban and a restraining order. Such measures may be imposed for the protection of national security on a person who may be associated with or support terrorist activities on the basis of his or her conduct. I think it is important to note that this evening's debate is, of course, mainly about Islamic terror, about jihadism. That terror serves only one purpose, and that is to prepare the people of the dr al-harb, the part of the world that is not yet Islamic, for the eventual introduction of Sharia. I would like to establish that, because, apart from the PVV, no party really recognizes or appoints it. It's not about accidental terror. It is an effective and planned submission. Does the Minister share this view? The Minister is working hard. Fine. But with effort it is important that you do the right thing and that you not only do the less important things well. The PVV considers the proposed measures to be totally inadequate. I think this is in line with the opinion of the CDA of the moment. The Minister assumes that jihadis respect these measures properly, but what if that is not the case? Even the anklet does not provide a solution for a jihadi who does not comply with an area ban and reporting obligation. An anklet can be cut off. The GPS signal may be gone if the batteries are not charged by the jihadi in training or not who wears the anklet. If someone breaks the measure, the Minister can say that this is a signal that action may have to be taken and that the violation of the measure is punishable, but the bird has of course been flying for a long time. And there you are with your protection of national security. The Minister gives an example of the ban. We believe that this ban applies, of course, to the whole of the Netherlands. Let's get that straight. This also concerns the overseas territories. Get out. The Minister's example imposes a ban on the territory for the duration of a particular event. That shows little realism. What does a jihadi do to make his attack in another area out of frustration, where he is allowed to come? The Minister says that the government does not accept this, but it has to, because the attacks in Brussels were also intended for Paris. Why isn't it at least decided on an area bid that the D.A. and the police are asking for? I'd like to hear a response. The PVV believes that no risk should be taken with these dangerous figures. No risk at all. The Minister must protect society as much as possible. In the explanatory memorandum, on page 3, the Minister uses great words. Let me give you a few examples. He talks about "Dutch sympathizers of jihadist groups," who "become (solitaire) attackers." He also referred to "measures needed to protect national security against, in particular, attacks on Dutch territory" and to the protection of "the fundamental rights and freedom of citizens"... "as in the extreme case the right to life." Such big words must be accompanied by firm measures. After all, the security of citizens and fundamental rights must not be allowed to continue. I'm just saying. These are real measures, measures that make the Netherlands really safer. Therefore, the PVV wants to make administrative detention legally possible. Not only the so-called returners, but also stopped out-of-travelers pose a threat to our national security. This is already apparent from the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands (DTN). Following the example of Israel, where this is done very well, the Netherlands must be able to prevent people who can be associated with terrorist activities because of their behaviour. This concerns everyone who can pose a risk to national security in this respect. In the opinion of the PVV, it is the services that a potential terrorist should present to the Minister of the Interior for administrative detention. Sometimes that will happen in consultation with the D.A.'s office, but it doesn't necessarily have to be. The Minister then decides whether or not the person concerned is being detained preventively. The detention may then be extended by six months each. The judicial review is guaranteed by the fact that the person concerned can appeal directly to the court against the Minister's extension decision. In order not to waste precious time, and in the context of security, we have also taken into account in the proposal that the possible use of the appeal does not entail suspensive effect. By the way, this is entirely in line with the current Article 6.16 of the General Administrative Law Act, so there is nothing new under the sun at that point. The criminal investigation can, of course, continue. Furthermore, the aim is, of course, to denaturalise and eviction. I come to the criminal investigation and the difficult burden of proof. The PVV does not want any jihadi on Dutch soil; let that be clear. But for cases where someone has already returned to the Netherlands, the PVV wants to reverse the burden of proof. Let those who are already present here, thanks to the government, prove that they have only helped to cross older women, water plants or remedial teaching at one of the beautiful schools in the Islamic State or in other places where Islam is in charge or threatens to get it and fight for it. The recent report Destiny Syria of the Rotterdam Court has established that the defence that was not taken part in the armed struggle is no longer sustainable. The Rotterdam Court has also confirmed this in two judgments on 18 February this year, which conclude that whoever travels to ISIS area knowingly makes the choice to join a group that engages in terrorist activities and commits or intends to commit attacks in Europe. In practice this means that both male and female extravagants, armed or otherwise, participate in the struggle of, in this case, the Islamic State. I would like a response from the Minister, because we are considering tabling a motion on this point. As I have just said, one of the DTN reports shows that stopped out-of-travelers are also a threat to the Netherlands. That is one of the reasons why my group opposes the proposed exit ban, i.e. a ban on leaving the Schengen area. This is also reflected in our proposed amendment. If there is a well-founded suspicion that people will join a terrorist struggle group abroad, and usually that is an Islamic one, we prefer to see them leave, but in combination with the fact that they will never be able to put their feet on Dutch soil again. We must withdraw their Dutch identity, declare them undesirable, and above all we must re-establish the old-fashioned border controls. It's bizarre that we're gonna release bombs on them while they're getting trespassing here. Apart from this position of principle, the exit ban is not a very big deal either. The exit ban applies to the Schengen area, but why does it not apply to our own territory? The Minister indicated that this was not enforceable because of the lack of internal borders, but France and Germany did regulate this for their own territory. Do they have controls at internal borders? The Minister further indicated that enforcement of double-nationals is very difficult. In answering our questions, it became clear once again that most of the now well-known travellers have access to this; not to mention the SIS2 alert for viewers at home: the Schengen Information System 2.0. If a person's alert is already detected, the border guard is not even authorized to apprehend anyone. It's nice that this is being worked on at EU level, but it doesn't matter to anyone, because it's not about running a playground association. All this happens, while the Minister insists that the introduction of the legislative proposals, including the present one, is in a hurry. Finally. My group agrees, and only logically so, that an administrative body should be able to reject or withdraw an application for a grant, authorisation, exemption or recognition if the applicant can be associated with terrorist activities on the basis of his behaviour and there is a serious risk that the grant, authorisation and so on will be used for terrorist activities or for the preparation or support of such activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is at war with IS and it has to do with a huge threat of terror. It is therefore a good thing that we can finally discuss this bill in plenary. It's not common, but I'd like to start with a compliment. In a number of areas, the cabinet ignores the opinion of the Council of State. Legislation is not watered down and measures such as the ban and the obligation to notify remain in the proposal. My group supports the general thrust of this law, but we believe that the proposal does not go far enough in many areas. First of all, we are questioning temporaryity. It is very naive to assume that the terrorist threat will be over in five years' time. The proposal must enter into force indefinitely. In order to remove the temporary nature, we will support the amendment tabled by the CDA. I will continue with my question on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Of course, joining a terrorist organisation can also take place in the Netherlands. Why does a person in such a situation lose his Dutch identity only if he or she is outside the Kingdom? I'd like a response from the Minister. This bill also seems to do little to organisations that offer scope for radicalisation. Last weekend we saw again a terror preacher who unhindered in a mosque in Boskoop proclaimed his poisonous message. How does this legislation contribute both to preventing violence preachers and to addressing organisations that facilitate these preachers of violence? Will the Minister be able to dissolve these organizations in the near future? I'd like a response. The Minister states each time that the immediate retention of recurring jihadists is the starting point. Can he tell us how often this actually happens and in what circumstances it does not happen? I'd like a response. Returning jihadists and potential terrorists must of course be detained immediately, but the minister still does not want to do so. In his view, administrative detention does not fit into the rule of law. Of course, that's total bullshit. Friends of democratic states such as the United States, Australia and the United Kingdom already have the possibility of pre-emptive detention of suspected terrorists. Within a six-month period, an administrative judge shall assess whether there is a need for renewal. Let us be honest: administrative detention is also the means needed here. Last week the AIVD warned that jihadists in the Netherlands are actively looking for weapons. We don't have time to waste. With only a ban on territory, a notification obligation and possibly an anklet, we do not face any concrete threat. We need to secure these people. Therefore, make administrative detention possible in the Netherlands. Why doesn't the cabinet choose to criminalise the stay in terrorist territory? That was the proposal of coalition party VVD, wasn't it? It's too complicated for the Minister of his own mind. Absurd to see! What is also incomprehensible is that the cabinet does not want to impose an exit ban from the Netherlands, but from the whole Schengen area. So how do we keep an eye on these dangerous people and prevent attacks from being prepared in other Schengen countries? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Finally, the maximum sentence of up to one year in prison or a fine of the third category in this legislative proposal is totally inadequate. Why not opt for a much higher penalty limit, as in Germany? I'd like a response. We have seen in Brussels and Paris the enemy we are dealing with. A merciless enemy. Further tightening up of our legislation to combat these terrorists is urgently needed. We can't afford to be naive about this. This is about the safety of the Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u5	Mr. Chairman. After the horrendous attacks in European capitals involving sometimes returned Syrians, there is, of course, a need to take preventive action before the evil happens. This is an essential task for the State: to guarantee the safety of people. But that must be done effectively. Last week we had a working breakfast with French parliamentarians. This was about terrorism. In addition to an arsenal of criminal measures, France also has all the administrative measures under discussion here today. The unilateral repression in France means that they want to learn from the Dutch preventive approach. We have that district agent in the heart of society, and a probation which has had years of experience in deradicalisation. But is the focus of Dutch policy with the introduction of these new administrative measures going in the French direction, which the French themselves say is not working? I'm here to talk about the bill. This serves two purposes: to protect national security by preventing terrorist crimes and to prevent participation in or support jihadism. D66 wholeheartedly supports these objectives, but we do have reservations about this law because of the far-reaching consequences of the freedom-limiting measures that the Minister can take. They are often referred to here as a notification obligation, a ban on contact, a ban on territory or a combination thereof, for example a ban on territory reinforced by a duty of reporting to the police to ensure that the person is not in the prohibited area. These far-reaching consequences give D66 cause for critical comments on four points: the urgent need for the law, proportionality, legal protection and effectiveness of the proposed measures. To begin with, is there an urgent need for this law? Can we not now take preventive action to prevent an attack? On the contrary. In recent years, the Code of Criminal Law has been amended and extended to a large number of areas. The list of terrorist offences in Article 83 of the Criminal Code has become much longer. A grasp of this brings you to the following things: to commit or threaten a bombing, to hostage, to participate in an organization with a terrorist purpose and prohibited possession of weapons. Not only do criminal offences of this type for the purpose of terrorism be subject to more severe penalties, but also to their preparation or facilitation are severely punished. This means that someone is already punishable, for example, if he rents a car for a planned attack or buys a phone to communicate with accomplices. The stroman who hires a warehouse to store weapons is also a criminal offence, because it facilitates the attack. It didn't stop there. Special measures have also been taken to increase the possibilities for the police and the judiciary to detect terrorist offences very early and then to intervene. For example, a suspect of a terrorist offence can be detained for up to two years before it has been convicted and without any serious objections to it. The police can also, without suspicion, carry out all kinds of far-reaching investigative acts on the basis of indications of terrorism. They can intervene deeply in the defendant's privacy. For example, the police may systematically observe and track the suspect person, or seek information about the person concerned from his bank or internet provider. The police can tap the phone and search the car, search the person, or even infiltrate a group of people a person belongs to, all as long as there is evidence that that group or person could commit a terrorist offence. Then you wonder, is there still a hole? In what cases does justice stand empty-handed? When can the police do nothing and when is there a reason to think that someone is planning an attack? The College of Attorney General has already asked the same question. According to the College, if criminal law cannot be applied, the requirement that the measure is necessary for the protection of national security may rarely or never be met. In other words, if that requirement is met, there will almost always be a terrorist offence. The Minister still does not mention a specific situation in the explanatory statement which was modified in response to that criticism. However, the Minister says that the measures may be imposed in particular on returners, on persons supporting terrorist activities, which may also be financial or on persons who are not or are no longer suspects. It's always about people who aren't under criminal investigation. It seems that the Minister's proposed administrative measures are intended to circumvent criminal law and the legal guarantees laid down therein. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. There's no other way. On the contrary, Germany has opted for criminal law. There, for example, the financing of terrorist activities has been punishable. Exodus is also qualified as a criminal preparatory act. Why didn't our minister choose to extend the criminal justice instruments, if that would be inadequate now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u6	I'm a little surprised. A few weeks ago we had two debates here on the attacks in Brussels. I remember very well, in fact, I think it was with this interrupting microphone that the chairman of the D66 group made a heart-warming plea for the possibility of following one of the perpetrators of the attacks in Brussels, who had been deported to the Netherlands, reading his mobile and keeping an eye on him. He made a very warm plea for all such administrative measures, in order to avoid, above all, that these types of figures could be a danger to Dutch security. When I listen to my colleague Mr Swinkels at the moment, I hear that she has a completely different route in mind, and that said no good or good in this law at all. I would therefore like to ask: are you in favour of this law or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u7	Mr. Swinkels is only halfway there. The plea of my group chairman, myself and of D66 as a whole has always been: to combat terrorists as much as possible and to prevent terrorist crimes. It was therefore D66 who argued in favour of keeping the security services strong, because they must be able to do all the things that the group chairman mentioned and you have just quoted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u8	My question was: Are you for or against this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u9	I have a number of critical questions for the Minister and there are also amendments. I'd like to wait for the debate before I reach my verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u10	Does Mrs Swinkels not agree with the VVD and most of the parties in this house that this could be a useful addition to the criminal instruments she is talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u11	For D66, it is important that measures are effective. I will now go on to say whether we believe these administrative measures are effective. I'll get to that in a minute. First of all, I would like to say something about the proportionality of the proposed measures. The restrictions on freedom may be imposed if necessary for the protection of national security and if the person concerned can be associated with or support terrorist activities. It can be associated with terrorist activities: that sounds very broad to me. It's a vague criterion. What kind of behavior are we talking about? A definition is missing, apparently to give the Minister some room for manoeuvre. But there are serious objections to this ambiguity. The Court of Justice, the NJCM and the College of Human Rights have already pointed out. Indeed, these restrictions of fundamental freedoms can only be permitted in a rule of law if there is a legal basis for them and if it is sufficiently foreseeable for citizens to know what behaviour is punishable. I therefore propose to clarify this by joining Article 83 of the Code of Criminal Law, which lists a whole list of terrorist offences, so that citizens as well as the courts have a little more guidance. I have tabled an amendment for a clearer definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u12	A beautiful little bridge about clarity. Do I hear Mrs Swinkels say now that we are going back a little bit in the debate, and that it is a pity that in the Netherlands we have not chosen the same course as in Germany, a kind of criminalisation of departures? I think D66 was against that when the CDA, together with the VVD, filed a motion to see if we could get it done to make it criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u13	Again, D66 is in favour of effective measures. We have always advocated that the police should be on strength and that the security services should be on strength. That is what has been advocated and that is what extra money has been allocated. Mrs Van Toorenburg has also voted in favour of this in the context of the opposition's joint action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u14	Mrs. Swinkels doesn't want to answer. I ask her a very specific question. We are very much in agreement. I can bring in all the debates: all fine, fun and nice. I am concerned now with what Mrs Swinkels just said, namely that she did not seem to think this was a useful toolbox. She referred to Germany. She almost literally said: why didn't the cabinet choose to criminalise the exit in the footsteps of Germany? We had come up with a brilliant plan for this, even if it was only to travel to terrorist-controlled territory. Kind of limited. A nice definition about it and we're done. Is that D66's objection? Then together we will come up with a definition of 'terrorist-controlled territory'. Maybe we'll finally have a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u15	I think that Mrs Van Toorenburg did not understand me correctly or did not listen properly. My argument was that, according to D66, criminal law offers sufficient opportunities to intervene preventively and that if more were needed, it would have to be done through criminal law. In that case, the criminal justice system should be extended. In this context, I referred to what has happened in Germany. Similar measures have been introduced through criminal law. My point is that criminal law contains legal guarantees. My next point was, therefore, whether it might have been the intention to circumvent criminal law through administrative law. That was the only point on which I sought to join Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u16	All I'm looking for is the words of D66. First, D66 here in the Chamber says in a vote: we do not want criminal law. And now D66 uses that as an excuse to put the heels in the sand in government law. It's insufferable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u17	We are not putting our feet in the sand in administrative law, we are making critical comments because we are in favour of effective measures. According to D66, criminal law offers a lot of effective measures, in the sense that today, even the criminal lawman can read that in the newspaper, even the description of the crime is already so far advanced that it is again a question of human rights. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with my speech. I had stuck to the application criterion for these administrative measures. I think that's vague. The second paragraph of that application criterion, which can be linked to terrorist activities, also provides ample scope for restricting everyone. After all, everyone can always be associated with something in one way or another. A link is quickly established. When is that connection so close that an infringement of a person's freedom in our rule of law is justified? Suppose the husband of a colleague with whom I run weekly, wears a djellaba, has a hip beard and sometimes goes to a notorious mosque where sometimes a radical imam speaks. Is that enough for the conclusion that this man, and perhaps his wife, or perhaps me, too, is a danger to national security? Evidence is not necessary for these administrative measures, which we must always keep in mind. According to the explanatory memorandum, it is only reasonable to establish that a person has committed such conduct. When is that the case? How does this relate to common criteria such as legal and convincing evidence, serious objections, suspicions or indications? Will gossip, rumors, suspicions or other unverifiable information be sufficient to justify such measures? Apart from that, the question arises as to whether it is accepted in a rule of law that people against whom there is no suspicion and even no indication that they are involved in terrorism are subject to restrictions on freedom based on vague criteria. Aren't we going to be on a slippery slope? In addition, the proposed measures can apply for an unlimited period of time, not until six months, but they can be extended each time. The previous bill contained a maximum period of two years. Why isn't he in there anymore? Doesn't the Minister intend to launch a criminal investigation at some point in the event of an extension? Or can the measures continue to apply for years without any evidence? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Then I come to my third point: legal protection. Fundamental human rights such as freedom of movement and the right to privacy are at stake here. The decision on measures in breach of that rule requires that the explanatory memorandum always states "suitable work'. Each person must take account of all the special circumstances of the case, and the interests and freedoms of the individual must be weighed against the interests of society and national security. When I read that, I thought of the judge. That is someone who is ideally suited to make these kinds of considerations in complete independence. For criminal justice, these measures are also daily costs. So I was surprised when I read that the Minister is going to impose the proposed measures himself and that there is no prior judicial review. My question to the Minister is why this has not been chosen, as in the United Kingdom, for example, where the Supreme Court has to authorise similar measures. In the Netherlands it goes exactly the other way around. Here the measure is first taken and then one can go to court. This procedure will soon take a few weeks, even in the case of interim measures. In the meantime, the measure will continue to apply until the court has decided otherwise, with all the far-reaching consequences. What about the possibility of defending? These measures will often be based on confidential information from the police or intelligence services. This is usually covered by a confidentiality obligation, with the result that information may not be disclosed. This means that even more people will be given a measure that they do not even know why it is happening and against which they can hardly defend themselves. It doesn't give much confidence if the judge is allowed to fix decisions afterwards. According to this legislative proposal, the judge may involve new facts arising after the decision in the question whether the measure previously imposed has also been correctly imposed. The temptation to do it first and then think only then becomes very big, with again all kinds of negative consequences for potentially innocent people. I come to my final point, and that is the effectiveness of these measures. If these measures are introduced, D66 believes that the probation should be involved. The probation has experience in deradicalisation and can contribute to increasing the effectiveness of these measures in the longer term. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he wants to go along with this. Mr. Chairman. You've heard a lot of critical concerns from me. I would therefore like to conclude with what we do want. D66 opts for effective measures and the maintenance of basic principles of our rule of law. It therefore wants to resist the temptation to use symbol legislation to show decisiveness. We always want to work towards effective international cooperation and exchange of information between the security services, because that has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u18	The question that Mr Tellegen asked earlier is: how does this position relate to your group chairman's speech a few weeks ago? That was about the lack of instruments to do what he argued tightly and glowfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u19	The thrust of my group chairman's speech and mine is always that D66 wants terrorists to be combated as much as possible and that terrorist crimes are prevented. For that, you need the police in order, and for that you need security services with sufficient capacity and powers. That means that the Marechaussee at Schiphol Airport must be on strength. These measures are effective and must be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u20	Your group's speech a few weeks ago and the exchange of views with the executive in the Chamber made it clear that the competent authority lacked the appropriate instruments to act effectively against Mr El Bakraoui. What measures do you propose in concrete terms to prevent the repetition of this kind of scenes, other than those contained in this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u21	You say that Mr El Bakraoui could have been stopped if there had been criminal jurisdiction. It wasn't that. In this case, there has been insufficient exchange of information between Turkey and the Netherlands. If that cooperation had been better, then D66 would have been hammered over and over again, possibly the worst of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u22	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u23	All right, let's finish. The exchange of information is one aspect. No one will fight that it was flawed. She just wasn't in order and she still isn't. At the same time, the debate on this issue highlighted the lack of appropriate instruments. There was a missing box in the toolbox of the competent authorities to be able to pick up El Bakraoui, hold on or whatever. I'm still curious what D66 is proposing to eliminate or fill this gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u24	That's assuming there's a gap. However, I do not think there is a gap at the moment. Again, the most effective are all the measures that are taking place at the pre-stage. I cannot repeat it enough: the point is that there are enough district agents to identify early signs or make alerts on radicalisation. It is therefore a matter of sufficient marechaussee at Schiphol Airport and keeping the police in order, with sufficient capacity. It is not the case that there are not enough powers at the moment. If that were the case, it should be dealt with through criminal law. I do not recognize the problem that Mr Bishop is pointing out at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u25	Mrs. Swinkels is keeping it very exciting. I still have no idea how D66 will deal with this law. I would like to know on the basis of which criteria Mrs Swinkels and her group will or will not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u26	It remains exciting, because I want to wait for the Minister's further debate and response. For D66, the maintenance of the fundamental principles of the rule of law will always lead the judgment of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u27	Once again, what points are crucial for the D66 Group to vote in favour of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u28	That gives me the opportunity to add one more point: the effectiveness of the proposed measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u29	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u30	Yeah, finally. I can't get an answer to my question. However, I do have a very different question for Mrs Swinkels. This law actually sees three problematic groups in this country: the returners, the frustrated extravagants and the radicalized. How will D66 provide an answer or solution for the returners if it does not agree with this law with administrative measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u31	That question is based on the assumption that we do not agree with these measures. I have now made critical comments and will reserve my judgment for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u32	Mr. Chairman. A oppressive feeling gradually makes itself master of the free West. Recent terrorist attacks in the heart of Europe, in Paris and in Brussels are affecting security. In the Netherlands, the threat of terrorism is substantial. We need to be prepared for a terrorist attack. Police and justice, intelligence and security services and the armed forces are doing their utmost to protect the Netherlands from these atrocities. Every day, the women and men of these services are ready to protect our democracy. For that, great thanks and appreciation are appropriate. We as legislator and co-legislator must protect our freedoms. The crucial question of conscience is, of course, how to do that. For GroenLinks that is a big dilemma. For us, the problem lies precisely in the fact that our freedoms must not be too lightly damaged, even if the aim of this attack is to protect the democratic rule of law with these freedoms. GroenLinks is not yet convinced of the need for new administrative measures that are at odds with protecting the principles of the democratic rule of law. The administrative measures introduced in this legislative proposal can be applied without judicial intervention. In view of its far-reaching nature, it is at odds with the constitutional principles. I'm also concerned about the expected judicial test. In the end, the judge of the administration will be judged marginally. In addition, facts and circumstances arising after the imposition of the measure may be taken into account in the judicial judgment. That's the so-called ex-tunc test. In administrative law, that is exceptional. Why exactly was this chosen? Is my assumption that measures should be withdrawn in any case if facts and circumstances show that the person concerned has nothing to do with terrorism? Doesn't the ex-tunc review mainly give the public administration an advantage? Any breach of the conditions laid down may be subject to far-reaching investigative powers which may give rise to material which subsequently justify the measure previously imposed. This creates the risk of overly light-hearted imposition of far-reaching administrative measures deep in personal freedom. We would like to hear an explanation from the Minister of why the ex-tunc test was chosen. The Minister will have to agree with us that the administrative judge will ultimately be a marginal judge. How does he bring that into line with the rule of law? Together with D66, GroenLinks has tabled an amendment to provide for judicial consent to be sought for the imposition of the above-mentioned administrative measures. Why couldn't I? What's to stop the Minister from doing that? What's the essential point? Why wouldn't a prior judicial test be possible? So I would like to hear what the Minister thinks of this amendment. The Council of State wonders why the current administrative and criminal powers are not sufficient. For the sake of time, I will not repeat the whole story about what is already possible in criminal law that my colleague Schwinkels has kept as clear. With the Council of State, GroenLinks asks the Minister for a precise analysis of the current legal instruments and of where they are lacking in practice. In fact, we read in the opinions, including from the College, that there will be hardly any cases which really threaten national security and which are therefore not covered by the extended criminal law measures. Can the Minister explain this? What cases does he expect for which this law is really necessary? Then there's the preventive action. Of course, something only works preventively if you can foresee that it will apply to you. That too, as Mrs Swinkels has clearly explained, will rarely be the case. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister which group is really adding something to this and is going to work preventively. Which people would be scratching behind the ears now that we have this test, for example with regard to the suspension of subsidies or the suspension or withdrawal of subsidies, and will indeed not go back to something that will put them in a situation where they can be associated with a terrorist act? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, clarity and predictability are essential elements of criminal law and also of these administrative measures, which are actually an extension of criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u33	I don't get that last part. With regard to permits, the idea is that the government does not want to participate in anything that could lead to terrorism. What do you mean, foreseeability would be a reason not to? This whole box doesn't apply to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u34	It should be foreseeable. Suppose you have a foundation, with a board. One of the board members may be associated with terrorism, while the other board members of that foundation do not know that. Whether or not there is a criminal offence is completely unclear. How can this foundation already apply for the grant but not? That's the preventive effect because the board already knows in one way or another that one of the board members might be associated with a preparatory action in the future? That foundation board can't know that at all. It will then be faced with a withdrawal of a grant decision. Mrs Swinkels has already explained that the board is unlikely to be able to oppose this, because the information on the basis of which that subsidy is withdrawn is probably not shared. There is only a minor review, a procedural review by the administrative judge. That does not help at all to get all kinds of foundations to make sure that terrorism is less common in the Netherlands. It only gives rise to a great deal of legal uncertainty. Legal uncertainty does not help in prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u35	If that proves to be the case, there will be no subsidy and intervention, or no money will be given, which will prevent the criminal conduct from continuing. If such a foundation board finds out why this is happening, do they kick out the one who pretends to do it and can the permit still be applied for again on the right grounds? So if we don't do something, we're gonna help. Then everyone's gonna put their hands in the air and nothing's changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u36	As far as the CDA is concerned, should someone be expelled from an administrative function if they are simply and exclusively associated with a possible preparatory act for terrorism? There has not even been a prosecution, let alone a conviction. Criminal law is not applicable to it. On that ground, someone needs to be kicked out of a board already. In any case, GroenLinks does not consider this method to be consistent with the fundamental principles of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u37	Then I really recommend to Mrs Van Tongeren to read very carefully what has really been arranged. It is, of course, a question of not taking these decisions lightly. If there is sufficient reason to assume that the money or the subsidy will make something possible, which means that national security is directly at stake there, should we be able to take action? GroenLinks apparently thinks it's okay that nothing happens, because the board members might not know that they themselves had someone in their ranks who wanted to do this. I am glad that action will be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u38	Please continue, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u39	I would like to respond to this comment. If it were light, I wouldn't understand why the CDA is resisting a judicial test. If it is strong enough, a judge will also give immediate permission to impose such a measure in advance. Either there is sufficient evidence to convince a judge and have him impose the measure and suspend the subsidy, or there is not enough evidence. According to GroenLinks, it does not have a preventive effect. On what basis should a board of directors know that one of the board members in its ranks might be associated with it if even a judge could not be persuaded of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u41	I just lost track of where I was. I was with the amendment. How does the Minister feel about doing that first? Then I came to the preventive action. I'd like to know from the Minister how something preventive can work, if you don't know for yourself that it's going to affect you. I asked the Minister if he could give us some examples. In what cases do we really need it? How does the Minister propose the practical effect of the imposed measure? Does he not also fear that the person concerned and his immediate surroundings are radicalising more quickly through the imposed measure? I would like to quote the state law professor Praise, who is also a member of the Human Rights College. He warns that people may feel that the normal requirements, which apply to everyone in public action, do not apply to them in this particular case. This will encourage alienation from Dutch society. How does the Minister intend to avoid this paradoxical effect of this bill? Does the Minister recognize this effect? GroenLinks continues to question whether the main problem in the end is not so much the current legal instruments as the operational area of the services concerned. There would be one district agent on every 5,000 inhabitants. With some creative accounting you can meet this standard. However, the question arises as to whether the district agents are there where they are most needed. Police stations are rapidly disappearing from the city scene. That affects the idea that a police force is physically present. My group chairman has already spoken out for the Special Interventions Service. It beeps and cracks at this service. Highly qualified personnel operating in the highest civilian spectrum of violence appear to be overburdening. My group welcomes the measures taken by the Minister for Special Interventions. However, we expect to be regularly informed about the practical improvements and reinforcements to that service. Classical is the conflict of interest between intelligence and security services, police and justice in the exchange of information. In addition, nothing must go wrong. This requires a culture of cooperation on both sides. How will this culture be strengthened in terms of cooperation? How can we trust that everything that is known about possible safety risks is adequately deployed in all relevant sections of the safety chain? In the end, the Netherlands is best protected with excellent detective work. Is the safety chain capable of doing so? That is a question which the GroenLinks Group strongly asks the Minister. Preventing and combating terrorist attacks here, and anywhere in the world, is one of the greatest challenges of the present. But perhaps even greater is the challenge of not becoming the greatest enemy of our own. It is now important to take effective measures that relate to the foundation of our enlightenment ideals: the democratic rule of law. Let us not, in the fight against terrorism, take measures that alienate peoples from us, that weaken the rule of law of our laws and that weaken the freedoms that come to us all, except for everyone's responsibility for the law. If we do, the terrorists will still win.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u42	Mr. Chairman. The fight against terrorism is aimed at prevention. That's a pretty simple observation. Criminal law, on the other hand, is always reactive. Criminal law responds to something that's happened. Criminal law has been stretched to the limit to be preventive as well. That started after the attacks on 11 September. We have discussed whether we really should. Do you have to stretch the criminal justice system so it works preventively? Or would you have to make a separate law for that, so a law of terrorism or whatever you'd like to call it? In the end, it is included in criminal law in the Netherlands. The laws adopted after 11 September have also been introduced with a temporary character, but they have never been undone. This aside. I welcome the fact that we are not going any further along the path of putting criminal law on the preventive side, but that we are using this instrument, which is administrative law. Administrative law is a review of legal protection and thus substantially different from criminal law. I hear this gets mixed up a couple of times. The second point I would like to make in advance concerns customization. Too much repression can be counterproductive. We can take people, groups of people who do not mean any harm, who, together with the government, want to fight terrorism as an ally, and turn away from us. We shouldn't have that. Only preventive measures ignore the ruthless nature of terrorism. The last report of the AIVD leaves no doubt about that. The people sitting there now, they're deadly dangerous. In short, think and apply customization. Only when you feel that it is not right, I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg, do you have to search until you know what is going on and then take appropriate measures. I support the bill. Although it goes a long way when the Minister imposes a duty of notification or an exit ban on a person on the basis of the national security criterion, this is unfortunately necessary given the threat posed by jihadism. That does not alter the fact that I would like to comment on a number of points on which my group has questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u43	Mr Recourt has a thing for judges and the rule of law. That's what's good for him. If we take these measures, doesn't he think it's important that a judge always looks at them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u44	Yeah, I think that's important. A judicial test must always be carried out, especially on such far-reaching measures. We used to think it was ridiculous that the Soviet Union was working with travel bans and that it was said where you should and should not be. Now we're gonna do the same. This may be necessary because of terrorism, but with a judicial test.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u45	I assume that Mr Recourt also believes that this judicial test should be carried out in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u46	No, it's not. I shall now return to my introduction. The measures we are discussing today are administrative measures. We have rightly set up these measures in such a way that the authorities decide and judge whether the government has done so correctly. I'll come back later on to exactly how the judge should do that. However, the judicial review shall always take place after the decision has been taken. It's not the judge, it's the government that decides. The judge then checks whether the government has done the right thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u47	We will therefore have freedom-limiting measures imposed by the Minister. That can't be the intention of a former judge, can it? If someone threatens or threatens to commit a terrorist attack, or facilitates that attack, in any way, we will take him in, we will intervene. We have all kinds of ways of doing that. A land ban, a notification obligation or an exit ban has very little to do with a concrete acute threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u48	Mr Van Raak asks two questions. To start with the last one, it's about customization. If you have concrete indications of an attack, the customisation does not consist of an administrative measure, but of a criminal measure. Someone has committed a criminal offence and criminal law offers ample opportunities. Mr Van Raak's other question was what I think as a former judge. I'm a former foreign judge. We put strangers in alien custody. That's what the board does. The foreign judge checks whether that was right. You do so by means of a provisional provision very shortly thereafter, but you do so in that order. The board decides, the judge controls.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u49	Can Mr Recourt explain to me why administrative law is better suited to such measures than criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u50	That's what I started my input on. Criminal law is reactive to its very nature. I think criminal law has already been stretched to the limit to get to the front of the crime. It can't be. That doesn't fit. We are a long way off with the preparatory work. I don't want to go any further. However, in the context of national security, we cannot, therefore, impose a measure as a punitive measure, for example, in order to prevent a person from leaving. Then administrative law is the most appropriate way and not criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u51	And if you look at the nature of the violation of fundamental freedoms, would that not justify a way through criminal law, given the guarantees contained therein, which are greater than those under administrative law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u52	In fact, criminal law offers a very closed set of safeguards. It's densely defined, it has to be known. That's what criminal law is for. Now we're taking administrative measures. There are also safeguards and a judicial test, albeit in a different way, namely more afterwards. I think that is justified because we are not talking about penalties here, but about prevention, about security. That is why I do not think that the amendment tabled by GroenLinks and D66 is a good one, although I doubt it. The close definition of what exactly the terrorist purpose... I've lost the exact term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u53	Activity. You don't remember!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u54	Activity. That doesn't make sense that it's primarily up to the board. You shouldn't introduce a criminal framework into an administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u55	At least you would expect, whether through the band of criminal law or not, that there will be a clear definition? Isn't that what administrative law requires?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u56	Of course, it must be clear that a measure is proportionate, that national security - which is the basic criterion - is at stake. All this must be substantiated in the sense that it must be demonstrated. We do not do this on the basis of feeling or on the basis of something hanging in the air. To this end, administrative law is also available. In fact, this is already happening in administrative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u57	Customization leads to randomness. We have seen this in several areas. The fact that administrative law already regulates this in this way can never be a legitimate argument. I put a specific question to Mr Recourt. What would be customised in relation to Article 2: a person who could be associated with or support a terrorist activity on the basis of his behaviour? I know Mr Recourt as a former judge, but I wonder what his behavioral qualities are in assessing behaviour in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u58	You can't think of that in advance. Reality is always multiform. You can think of the craziest things, but in reality it's always a bit crazier. It is precisely a question of establishing criteria on the basis of which, in the first instance, the board can decide and then review the judge. The administration must therefore clearly demonstrate that acts and behaviours related to terrorist activities are involved. How? That will have to be demonstrated in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u59	We have different laws and rules. I remember the discussion about the mandatory ggz Act. That's where we're gonna ask the administrative judge on the front for a court order. We're doing it to psychiatric patients with a court order on the front, so before a care facility comes into use. Isn't it weird, then, in these activities, with this bill, to do it in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u60	The judicial authorization concerns the civil court, but that aside. The word already says it: it is a jurisdiction of the judge. The judge must determine whether a person poses such a danger to himself or his environment that he must be deprived of his freedom. That's one way to fix it. In criminal law, we also leave it to the judge to determine whether someone did it, yes or no and, if so, what punishment he then deserves. In the context of administrative measures, we leave it to the administration first. In the Netherlands, for example, we have a multitude of legal instruments. This seems to me to be an excellent measure that leaves you to the board. I explained why. Because criminal law doesn't have to come up front. You leave the measure to the board and afterward the judge will review it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u61	It is not quite clear to me why Mr Recourt chooses the reverse order in this case. If we find together that the Minister's explanation of behaviour which may contribute to terrorist activities may differ from that of the judge, is Mr Recourt not afraid that he is forcing this minister to apply arbitrary measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u62	I'm not sure I understand that, but I do understand that there's a certain degree of arbitrariness if you want to deliver customization. I can understand the tension. If it is simply a generic measure, which is the same for everyone, then you no longer have randomness, but often no justice. It is always a search for a balance between clarity on the one hand and looking carefully at the particularity of an individual case on the other. I simply cannot link that to the question of whether it should be dealt with in administrative law, in criminal law or in civil law. As far as I am concerned, these are really administrative measures, because criminal law is at the back and not at the front. We're talking about the front here. I therefore consider this to be a legitimate choice of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u63	I assume that the PvdA does not support this law because it believes that it is symbolic legislation. The PvdA Group must therefore think that there are real groups that are deterred by this new law in order to be associated with the preparation of terrorist acts. If that is true, which I assume is true, how does Mr Recourt view the opinion of the College of Attorneys General? It states that, in fact, the requirement of national security must be met rarely or never. If that requirement is met, you can intervene through criminal law. Is it, then, symbolic legislation and does the PvdA say "this minister already has a few scratches on his head and there shouldn't be one more; it's not really going to happen to anyone, so just do it," or can the PvdA actually indicate a group that could be covered by this law and even better, for whom it can have a preventative effect? What group would suddenly think by this law "well, I won't do it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u64	I do not believe in preventive action. Some people might think 'I won't do it anyway', but I don't think that administrative measures imposed on others will get someone with radicalised thoughts off that path very quickly. So I am not so impressed by the preventive effect. It is precisely individual cases where criminal law is not yet in sight, but the administration can do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u65	The College of Attorney General says that those groups are actually not there. It says that it will rarely or never be able to meet the requirement of necessity for the protection of national security. That doesn't really leave a group. If there is no preventive action and if there is no group for whom you are doing this, then it is very much in the direction of symbol legislation. Or can Mr Recourt clearly indicate which group will be punished or dealt with under this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u66	It is not about a group and it is not about punishment, but it is about protecting national security. That's always in an individual case. You have two arguments for using an administrative measure and not a criminal one. Firstly, criminal measures are often used in a more serious situation. So that's in the context of customization. Secondly, the use of criminal law measures is always reactive. I'm just gonna say that again. You're gonna have to collect evidence for that, and you're gonna be working on it for a while. If you haven't imposed an exit ban, the bird could have flown long ago to Syria. In short, there is also a speed element in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u67	I don't understand. It must be important enough to damage national security, because that is the basis on which you take such an administrative measure. Mr Recourt cannot call a group of individuals deterred by this. He doesn't have to call me the name of a particular neighborhood, but it has to be more than one person every three years. If it can only theoretically affect one person every three years, then I think it is symbolic legislation. I'm assuming the PvdA will agree. It really has to be a whole group of people who do threaten national security but do not meet all the different conditions of criminal law. Incredible rapid action can also be taken on the basis of criminal law. That does not take weeks, as Mr Recourt knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u68	I don't understand Mrs. Van Tongeren. Again, these are individual cases. She asks which group is involved. It's about the group of radicalized or potentially radicalized people, but that's very broad. There's nothing legal about that. It is therefore an individual case in which the administration has a view that someone wants to travel through Turkey to Syria. An exit ban should be available at that time. This may, for example, be anticipating criminal action, if there is sufficient evidence to support it. If that is not the case, then it is good that we can already act on an administrative basis. It is precisely in order to provide tailor-made solutions that these administrative measures are needed. That is why there is no such thing as symbol legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u69	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u70	Mr. Chairman. I am defending the bill on all sides, but I do have some critical questions. I'll put it to you now. An exit ban is difficult to enforce. As there are in principle no border controls within Schengen, enforcement of an exit ban will mainly take place at the external borders of the Schengen area. However, there are still serious gaps. Persons subject to an exit ban shall be entered in SIS II. When persons who are alerted leave the Schengen area and are checked, they may run into the light. However, checks at the external border of Schengen do not take place systematically. The Minister also recognises that an alert of a person in SIS II may remain unseen. Persons with an exit ban can still travel to Syria with their expired Dutch passport. Moreover, if they are caught, they should not even be arrested. This requires a European arrest warrant. In order to increase the likelihood that someone will run into a problem, the second bill, which is not currently in question, annuls the passport of a person with an exit ban. These passports are entered in a register of identified passports: the Stolen and Lost Travel Documents Database (SLTD). That register can again be systematically checked at the external border of Schengen. However, the SLTD contains only the numbers of the expired documents and is not a personal register. In other words, someone with a second non-Dutch passport can then just cross the border, I think. Am I getting that right? And that, while it has turned out that a large majority of Dutch Syrians have a dual nationality. What happens if someone in the SLTD comes up? Can SIS II also be looked at? If so, what are the follow-up steps? The usefulness of an exit ban seems to be that the person with an exit ban who tries to leave the country via Schiphol will run into trouble because the exit ban is in the national search register: OPS. That person will be apprehended because of the violation of the exit ban. I don't suppose many potential jihadists will travel through Schiphol. There has been a lot of talk recently about European agreements and the sharing of information. In order to enforce the exit ban, there is still much to gain. How does the Minister take care of that? Another point is that the mayor already has many powers introduced by this bill, namely through the football law: reporting obligation, ban on territory and ban on contact. The mayor may use those powers in the context of public order and security. The Minister must do so in the case of national security. As far as I am concerned, this latter interest justifies the fact that the Minister must have those powers and not the mayor. However, the enforcement of the ban on the territory, the obligation to notify or the ban on contact will take place locally. How's that gonna happen? Think of the anklet, which was introduced by letter of amendment and in which the probation is given a role. Part of the information that is at the basis of one of these administrative measures may be of local origin. I would not like the Minister to use his powers and only discuss them with the local triangle afterwards or to inform them, with the exception of urgent decisions. How does this work in practice? Are the multidisciplinary cases also intended to assess whether the Minister will be able to make use of or should use his administrative measures? Or does the Minister only do so on the basis of AIVD's official messages? How will the Minister be informed of information coming from the case-by-case submissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u71	Can the Labour Party give an explanation of the way in which it looks at the amendment that we have tabled to give the mayor, in exceptional circumstances, also powers, for reasons of urgency, which he does indeed already have in order to be able to act quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u72	In any case, that amendment touches on a point on which I myself also have concerns, as was also to be heard in my questions. However, I do not know whether this is the right solution. You then place the authority, albeit in exceptional situations, with the mayor with whom you get some sort of double-up. I am very curious to hear the Minister's reply. I can also imagine that you are making an arrangement whereby, in situations of exceptional urgency, the minister can be approached earlier by the municipalities or in some way the municipalities, the mayors and the minister cooperate very closely with each other. However, I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that there is a tension between the Minister on the one hand and the Mayor on the other as to who should act when.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u73	Then I hope that the Minister will be able to respond positively. The only intention we have is that it should be a supplement and that, in urgent cases, something should be done not only from the Minister's side, but also from the mayor's side in the context of local security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u74	In the written round of questions, we and other groups have already drawn attention to the distinction between criminal law and administrative law in the context of this legislative proposal. When will one be used and when will the other be used? If there are conducts involving a suspicion of criminal offences, criminal law and the prosecution will appear. In the case of other conduct, which does not necessarily have to be punishable, criminal law is not involved; then it is the proposed administrative measures. In his reply to page 18 of the note following the report, the Minister acknowledges that the proposed administrative measures and criminal law are close to each other. Furthermore, the Minister argues that this distinction can be made, but I still miss a few concrete examples of conduct which does not give rise to suspicion of a criminal offence, but which may justify one of the administrative measures. Colleagues also asked about this and I am therefore not entirely critical of this point. Especially since there is no clear distinction to be made, some explanation of the differences is in order. Then I come to something I thought I could skip, but I can't. So I'm gonna give it to the Minister after all. In the bill concerning the withdrawal of the Dutch citizenship that we are discussing in a number of weeks' time, withdrawal can take place if the Dutchman has joined an organisation that is on a list of terrorist organisations compiled by the Minister of Security and Justice. Can it be linked to such an organisation as a reason for administrative measures such as the ban on the territory, the ban on exit and so on? If so, in this context too, I wonder how to distinguish between criminal acts and acts that justify the intervention of administrative law. Then I have a brief question about the manner in which the judge of the administration is to carry out the tests. It's not like the board judge only has a marginal test. There is a wide range of possibilities for the administrative judge to review. On the one hand, the most far-reaching marginal assessment of reasonableness. On the other hand, the administrative judge can sometimes even apply a full test. Also because of the Acts, my question is: what test should the administrative judge take here? A full test is very exceptional; that is usually for decisions for which there is actually no discretionary margin. However, a completely marginal test also seems to me to be a bit spacious. How are these future judges supposed to do that? Colleagues quoted the ex nunc test: new information may count in the decision by the administrative judge. In terms of efficiency, I can imagine something about that. That's what happens to other decisions. I am, however, sensitive to the argument that this leads to some laxity. You don't have to get your file in order yet, because you don't have to until you're in court. How are we gonna prevent that? Then I have now asked my practical questions and I am almost at the end of my time. I'm curious to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u75	I have one more question for the PvdA Group, even though I have more. The Human Rights College points out the risk of increasing social tension and polarisation as a result of the application of these measures, as they encourage stigmatisation and discrimination against people with a migration background. How's the PvdA looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u76	I have already dealt with this in my introduction. There are two sides to tackling terrorism. Indeed, you must be very careful about stigmatisation, but that does not mean that you should not act very hard when it is necessary. That must always be individualized, testable and identifiable. I really am not afraid of stigmatisation if the government when it has a reasonable case and sees that people want to do very nasty things, is clear and intervenes. I fully agree with the general notion of 'beware', but I do not think that it is very much in line with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u77	The College says that stigmatisation is mainly due to lack of effectiveness of measures, lack of predictability in legislative proposals, lack of clarity in the definition of jurisdiction and lack of legal protection. I would like to know from Mr Recourt how the government should give concrete expression to that'serious look out for stigmatisation', as he just put it. Then how do you do that, that serious look out for stigmatization, yet you're going to apply this law, with all its flaws?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u78	The only way to look out for that is to apply it in individual cases, with a good file, good justification, not on feeling, but on fact, and by having that checked by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u79	A brief question to Mr Recourt. What does the PvdA Group think about the amendment that is also on the table here, not to allow this law to be temporary, but to be permanently adopted? What does Mr Recourt think of the need for this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u80	Of the law or of the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u81	Of the law itself. If the temporary character is taken from it...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u82	I am certainly not in favour of that amendment. Why not? Because it's a serious breach, as I said before. It is justified, but at the moment when that justification comes to an end, that legislation must also be removed. A lot of legislation is being introduced and continues to last for days. Well, that's gonna have to get rid of it. Besides, you have to look at it every five years. I do not believe that terrorism will be resolved in five years, so it will be extended a number of times. But I think it's very good to have a horizon clause. If I understand correctly, the question is whether the PvdA will vote for this bill if the amendment is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u83	It's okay to rephrase this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u84	I should discuss this with my group. However, I do not think that this is so heavy that we will not vote in favour of this good law because there has been a bad element in it. I repeat, we are very much in favour of this horizon clause. You should do that with all this kind of terrorism legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u85	Then I can only refer to what you said earlier in De Telegraaf: that it is good and necessary, but that there is a danger that you will not get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u86	Yes, I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u87	Mr. Chairman. After the attacks in Paris and Brussels, fear is also good in our country. People wonder whether they will soon be able to go safely to the Adele concert or to the Feyenoord-Utrecht cup competition. They're wondering if enough security measures have been taken around King's Day to prevent an attack. Guards at Schiphol Airport, after all reports about Zaventem, worry about their own safety. A fellow HEMA worker told me last week that she was just as scared when suddenly two men with scary masks came into the store. The fear is in it, while we are a very sober country and don't let us drive us crazy quickly. Following the attacks in Paris and Brussels, our country has once again become more aware that an attack is possible in the Netherlands as well. Everyone's fear is getting tighter and tighter between their ears. No, we shouldn't be intimidated and yes, we should just live our lives. But that does not relieve us of the duty to ask ourselves daily here in the House of Representatives: do we do what is necessary to prevent an attack and are the measures we take visible and invisible, effective and effective? In the Lower House these weeks a number of anti-terrorism laws are being dealt with and that is a good thing. While attacks were needed in France and Belgium to bring about new legislation, this cabinet is proactively taking steps in many areas to minimise the risk of an attack in our country. We need to keep that proactive attitude up. We must not act only when it is too late, but we must continue to do everything we can to counter jihadism, to tackle potential terrorists and to put a stop to radicalisation in this country. With the anti-terrorism law that we are discussing today, the cabinet is doing everything it can to ensure that the activities of potential terrorists can be obstructed, obstructed and stopped at an early stage, i.e. preventively. In doing so, this law is an important complement to the current criminal law instruments to tackle potential terrorists. The AIVD annual report for 2015 identifies three groups with a potential threat to national security. First, the infamous returners: jihadists who travelled from the Netherlands to Syria, fought with ISIS and then returned to the Netherlands with combat experience. At the end of 2015, they were about 40 returners. The AIVD reports that the new returners are even more extremist, are better trained and have gained more combat experience. Some of the perpetrators of the recent attacks in Paris and Brussels were returning. Our position on returners is clear: make their presence on terrorist territory criminal, because then we have resolved it. Unfortunately, however, there is still no majority in this Chamber. Secondly, the extravagants: jihadists who have been stopped in the Netherlands in their attempt to travel and who are frustrated in the Netherlands, with all the dangers of that. Thirdly: jihadists who do not intend to travel at all, but want to fight in the Netherlands. None of these three groups are in the Netherlands. Of all these groups, there is a potential threat to Dutch security. You can wait until you can prosecute them, but you can also intervene earlier by taking preventive action to minimise the risk of a real risk. That is precisely the purpose of the law that we are discussing today: preventive measures to prevent worse. It will therefore not be surprising that the VVD is in favour of this law. During the last terrorist debate following the attacks in Brussels, there was a call from all the parties present to make every effort to monitor, monitor, harass and thwart potential terrorists. It is therefore a good thing that there is now a law that allows action to be taken, even if there is no criminal offence, freedom-limiting measures, or withdrawal of subsidies or benefits. After all, we are not going to stamp out public money for activities that may contribute to terrorism. I have a number of specific questions for the Minister about this law. It was mentioned earlier: the cabinet wants this law to expire in five years' time. That is why we are talking about "temporary" measures. The VVD would prefer an evaluation to be carried out and only then will it be decided whether or not that law will be enforced. How does the Minister view that? Mr Van Toorenburg has already indicated that we have tabled an amendment on this. Now the division of powers between the minister and the mayors. The VVD believes that in practice it will almost never prevent the minister from obstructing a mayor who sees reason to use his powers. However, the VVD sees the opposite possibility, namely that the Minister should encourage a mayor to use his powers, for example on the basis of information that the mayor does not have. Can the Minister take away our concern that this law will affect the speed of action of a mayor? When I read the law, I think: what if the Minister decides to impose an area ban and the person who it is going to be goes to the administrative court? Of course, the judge is only asking one question: on what information was this decision taken? That information may come from the probation, from the police or from the D.A.'s office, but in many cases also from the AIVD. If the decision is made on the basis of a notice of office, the judge will want to know what's in that notice. How exactly is that dealt with? This is an anti-terrorism law, which focuses specifically on behaviours that contribute to terrorist activities. We therefore focus strongly on Syrians and returners from Syria. I assume that this law can apply equally to people from other jihad regions, and will therefore be widely applicable. I'd like to hear if the Minister can confirm this. I now come to a sentence in the explanatory statement which I would like to explain. That sentence reads as follows: "The fact that someone has joined a terrorist struggle group abroad is therefore, in itself, insufficient to impose a measure, even if only because a returned warrior, disillusioned, may have averted himself from radical thinking." Isn't that a sentence that would allow every returner's attorney to exonerate him? And that is precisely when we want someone who is certain that he has not distributed blankets or flowers in Syria to be followed as closely as possible and monitored. I'd like a response from the Minister. It is good that this law extends the instruments of personalised measures. Does this law also offer opportunities with regard to networks? Is it also possible, for example, to impose these measures jointly on several individuals, or is it not appropriate for administrative law to do so? This law concerns three groups that we want to address: extravagants, returners and radicalised people. But there is a fourth group: the group that can still be influenced, the potentials that can still radicalize. The VVD welcomes the possibilities offered by this law in relation to that group. In this way, recruiters can be banned. But what about the hate preachers and, just as important, organisations and institutions that invite hate preachers and offer a platform? Can they be adequately dealt with by this law? The VVD wants hate preachers to be effectively banned from the Netherlands, both from outside and from within the EU. How can this law contribute to this? The same applies to the inviting party. We have to be able to act against that, don't we? Organisations and institutions in the country that provide a platform for hate preachers, should we be able to tackle them? I'd like to hear a response to this. In conclusion. The VVD strongly supports the two main objectives of this law: to protect national security and to prevent participation in or support jihadism. Danger to national security should be addressed as early as possible and as effectively as possible. Radicalisation, the spread of jihadist ideas and the pursuit of terrorist activities must be avoided. A person who poses or threatens to pose a threat to national security, for example by planning an exit to Syria or by recruitment practices, should be cut off. The existing measures are not sufficient at present. Every effort must be made to achieve a wide range of measures. This includes preventive measures. The VVD will therefore also vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u88	Mrs Tellegen of the VVD indicated that there are four groups against which this bill is addressed. I want to present her with a fifth group and I want to know if she sees it that way. There are also people in our society who intend to attack mosques and other prayer houses, such as synagogues and churches. Are they also part of the scope of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u89	I do not have that impression, because with this bill people are very clearly focusing on the jihadistic ideas and on those who radicalize. As far as I can tell here, this law doesn't extend to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u90	I will ask the Minister that question later. Doesn't the VVD have a one-sided image of terrorism? Then I would really like to know what the VVD considers to be the definition of terrorism. I have a strong impression that this bill and the thought that comes with this bill only focus on one type of terrorism, while there are several forms of terrorism. The Minister has also recognised this in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u91	I fully agree with Mr Kuzu that terrorism has many faces, perspectives and perspectives and that action should be taken against any form of terrorism. I have read in the last letters of the cabinet that there is a very solid work being done to combat action against mosques. As far as I see it now, based on the way in which I read this law, this law is very specific to Syrians and returners and indeed it is often a jihadist idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u92	I will ask the Minister again later. When we talk about this bill and give a definition of terrorism, should we not fight all forms of terrorism, wherever and against anyone, and, when this is most likely to apply, will they not all fall under the same law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u93	I think it's an interesting thought. I said it and I repeat myself: I agree that any form of terrorism must be dealt with. But once again, as I am reading this law at the moment, it is indeed written for countering the threat currently posed by those who radicalize from the jihadist point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u94	According to the list of speakers, Mr Segers would now speak. Unfortunately, he's indisposed. I call Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u95	Mr. Chairman. Ibrahim El Bakraoui is a true Muslim, who deceived decadent Europe and sacrificed himself for the Islamic caliphate. That is the image of this attacker in the propaganda of IS; almost like an American superhero in an American action film, fighting against a corrupt system. Reality is very different. El Bakraoui is a failed criminal, who came into the hands of recruiters, who, to his own surprise, could easily travel from Turkey to Brussels via Amsterdam and here frustrated, traumatized and without a view, decided to blow himself up. That's what we found on the laptop that we found on him. The fight against terrorism begins with knowing your opponents. Those aren't good Muslims, they're frustrated criminals. They're not heroes, they're losers. They're not foreign warriors threatening us, they're young people who grew up here. The people who attacked Brussels, Paris, London, Copenhagen and elsewhere in Europe were known. They were often part of the same networks. These networks were not shut down, because secret services do not cooperate sufficiently. In our country, we have fed the breeding ground for hatred and violence ourselves, by giving Salafist organisations all the space. By asking them to dinner. By giving them subsidies. By sending kids to them. The list of Salafist organisations, of which SP leader Roemer and VVD leader Zijlstra asked for it to be made public, is still not available. I ask the Minister: why not? The most effective way to prevent young people from getting out of sight, becoming an early criminal and getting recruited is indeed the district agent. It is precisely that district agent who has been forgotten in the formation of the national police. There's been a lot of cuts on the neighborhood cop. Still, there aren't enough people around. Tonight, the Minister is presenting us with administrative measures to prevent people from committing attacks or helping others. I think we should do whatever is necessary, but I do not know whether this is the case. This is, for example, a ban on territory or a ban on contact, together with a reporting obligation. This was proposed in 2011. At that time, the law was repealed because the government felt that sufficient additional criminal law provisions had been introduced in the interim. New is the exit ban. Mr Recourt has already said some very sensible critical things about this. He was wondering if that would work. It is mainly linked to another law, to withdraw passports and identity cards, which we are not discussing today. Grants and licences should be withdrawn. Yeah, sure, but we can do that. The law is temporary and applies only for five years. A number of spokesmen came up with the example of El Bakraoui. They asked how we would deal with them if we didn't have this law. I was sitting around the corner having coffee, but I almost fell off my chair with amazement. We are talking about El Bakraoui, who went from Turkey to Brussels via Amsterdam and committed an attack there. We'll talk about a restraining order tonight. I do not think this minister can impose land bans in Molenbeek. We're talking about a reporting obligation, but we didn't know he was coming. We are talking about an exit ban, while Turkey sent him to us without knowing for itself. What I am trying to say is that precisely the example that was mentioned shows very much the limitations of this law. To tackle someone like El Bakraoui, we need information to be exchanged. For that, we need secret services to work together. That is why we need ministers in Europe who know what they are doing. These are all things that are absolutely out of order right now. If I look at the measures contained in the ban on territory law, notification obligation, exit ban................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I think those are all things that can already be done. The same applies to the intention to improve cooperation and exchange information between the municipality, the police, the youth services and the ggz. I hope we don't need a law for that. The difference is that the Minister now intends to take these measures himself, without the intervention of the judge, without prior judicial examination. That is a fundamental step in criminal law. This is also what the College of Human Rights says: extra-judicial punishment by the Minister. Now, of course, I can talk about my trust in the Minister. That's not that big. This is mainly because I have very little faith in the Ministry of Security and Justice, where truth seems to be an option, but that is not the case and where the security of our country is often not in good hands. A ministry where there's police, where there's justice, where secret services are being run today, I think. And now it's board. A ministry that's pretty much done everything, but hasn't shown that it's capable of doing so. However, I do not want to talk about this tonight. I would like to talk about why we want to defend the rule of law by restricting it. If the Minister wants our support, he will have to convince us why this violation of our rule of law can now be justified in this way. Let me say for the record that I have no sympathy for terrorists. If possible attackers return from the Middle East or stand up in our own country, they may, as far as I am concerned, be obliged to do so in a closed programme for deradicalisation. I'd love to! We have called on the Minister to do so, but always with a judicial test. When I read the law, I was reminded of the fates of the family in Huizen, who was arrested at the end of August 2014. This shows that mistakes are being made and that the rule of law can help to prevent errors. I'm afraid too much power in the hands of one ministry increases the chance of error. The separation of powers is not a luxury, but a foundation of our rule of law. The Minister asks for that foundation to be broken for five years. Once again, I want to discuss everything, but above all I am asking for more explanation than we have received so far, much more explanation about the need. I'd like to give the Minister that chance tonight. I think he needs that opportunity, because as a former senator I can give him the opportunity to have this state-law discussion with him on the other side of the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u96	A glowing speech by Mr Van Raak. I do, however, miss the solutions of the SP. Am I to understand that the SP wants to keep the boundaries open?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u97	I'd love to, because I want to go on vacation and I want to go back. Now let's take this El Bakraoui. We talked to the Minister about him for three weeks. That man was arrested as a potential jihadist at the Syrian border. He was put on a plane and asked, "God, where are you going?" Well, El Bakraoui had been thinking longer too. He said, "Do me Amsterdam, because they don't know anything about me." In Amsterdam he sat down to a train.The intercity apparently sometimes drives to Brussels, to Molenbeek. He ended up there in his old network and blew himself up. Everything went wrong here. Secret services need to work together. Information must be exchanged. We need ministers in the Netherlands and in other countries in Europe who are up to their task. We need district agents who see radicalisation. We need a lot of things. I also think that there should be bans on areas, hotlines and exit bans. It can all be done, as far as I am concerned, not all by this minister and not without the intervention of the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u98	A very comprehensive answer to a very simple question. Mr El Bakraoui is, of course, a nice example. The easiest thing that could have happened in this case, the most effective instrument that could have been used, is border controls, including at Schiphol Airport. Nevertheless, Mr Van Raak of the SP wants to keep the borders open. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u99	I want to go on vacation and I want to go back. The point is that when El Bakraoui is arrested at the border of Syria and put on a plane, alarm bells must ring all over Europe, that people are informed and that he is not sent insanely to Amsterdam but to Brussels. If a mistake is made and he ends up in Amsterdam and he is being checked, we need to know exactly who he is. Then he must be arrested immediately and measures taken, because he is a jihadist, a terrorist. Then you can go after him in criminal terms. That is the problem now and we are looking for a solution. That doesn't have much to do with this whole law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u100	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u101	What it does have to do with, excuse me: has, I said for a moment in the Scheveningen section, that the boundaries are open. The most effective means of stopping someone is close borders, but the Socialist Party is always insisting that these borders should remain open, that we should include refugee flows, as they call them, here, that terrorists can travel back and forth, because that is what it is all about, and that is what has gone wrong here. The Socialist Party does not want to take the most effective measure, namely the introduction of border controls and the taking of control over who you do and who you do not allow into your country. The SP leaves its own voters in the cold by not choosing that dense border. I find that disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u102	I think that's a funny play I see here. I am very much in favour of border control, I can assure Mr De Graaf. There's no way to close boundaries. The terrorists will come in. I know all kinds of sandy paths at Poppel where terrorists can go in like this. You can't shut all that down. The only way to really fight this is that, at the moment they get here, there's information in any place, in the military and in the police. Then it must be known who they are and they must be followed. That's one way to stop them. What Mr De Graaf is advocating here is almost as much a dummy solution as the proposals in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u103	Mr. Chairman. This temporary anti-terrorism law is one of the government's proposals in the 2014 Integral Approach Jihadism Action Programme. This action programme also contains many other measures to deal with the major threat of terrorism wherever possible. In the meantime, we're two years away. Attacks in Paris, Brussels and Copenhagen have claimed many deaths. The threat of attacks in many countries is still present. Terrorism requires a structural, firm approach, both preventive and repressive. The criminal law approach and the need to cooperate have been discussed several times. We're gonna let that rest for a while. The SGP is convinced that it is necessary to take other measures in the fight against terrorism. It has been said earlier this evening by a colleague: terrorism, especially jihadist terrorism, is a form of war, of modern warfare, and must also be approached as such. In doing so, there will be tension if we do our utmost to uphold the values of our democratic rule of law and not to undermine them. I think, I say a little in anticipation of a conclusion, that this bill has succeeded to a great extent. Terrorism policy also calls for a strong preventive approach. The SGP appreciates that this bill is a good start. We are surprised that a temporary law has been chosen. Of course, it is quite clear that, over time, there will have to be a thorough assessment of whether this law is still needed and whether there will be any need for adjustments. However, to say in advance that the legislative proposal may not be able to survive seems rather strange to us. The government argues that there are measures of a "major nature" and that the law is therefore of a temporary nature, but with that argument you can make any legislative proposal temporary. In fact, prison is far more important than the measures proposed in this legislative proposal. The SGP is actually very simple: either you opt for a bill because you believe that it is necessary in the fight against terrorism on convincing grounds, or you doubt it and decide not to submit a bill. As far as we are concerned, this is a strange intermediate route which threatens to affect precisely the effectiveness of the legislative proposal. The SGP will therefore wholeheartedly support the CDA and VVD amendment to remove the temporaryity from the legislative proposal. If, in due course, the evaluation shows that the proposal raises problems, we can then decide to amend the law. If world peace is broken and terrorism is wiped out, then we will repeal the law in five years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u104	History shows that passed laws without a horizon are never repealed. They're always handy. This is about powers that interfere with someone's life. A prison sentence can be worse, but crime we always keep. We are talking about terrorist crimes which you indeed hope will be completed at some point, although this will not be after five years and not after ten years. Isn't it much wiser to just violate fundamental rights as long as it's necessary? Should we not install a guarantee in the form of a kind of beep system? If there's no beeping, the law goes down. That is a much better guarantee than the other way around: if there is no beeping, the law will remain in force forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u105	That's a difference of opinion. If you could reasonably foresee that in five years' time the threat of terrorism will be reduced so that you no longer need this tool, I would be absolutely in favour of it. However, as it now appears, you will still need these tools for a long time. As far as we are concerned, it is advisable to give a strong signal, to make the statement that we are dealing with it in this way. That's for the long run. We must, however, periodically include an evaluation. That is better than saying that it will be over after five years and that after that period we will have to re-establish the law or whatever. We are more in favour of a fixed course of action on the assumption that terrorism will not be over in five years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u106	I'm afraid so, too. In an interruption, Mr Bishop indicated earlier that we absolutely need this law to tackle people like El Bakraoui. I am very curious to see how a land ban, a reporting obligation and an exit ban could have helped to tackle El Bakraoui.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u107	It's always a combination of factors. This point has also been raised. It has, of course, also affected a good exchange of information between the various services. We have tabled an amendment to better regulate this exchange with the help of this law. I'll come back to that later. If it had been in order, for example, the obligation to notify would have been a good instrument to control Mr El Bakraoui in a sense. If you want something else and you have concrete suspicions, you're gonna have to follow the criminal trail. That would have been the alternative. As long as no criminal offence has been committed, that will of course be a difficult task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u108	If the secret services had done their best and if Turkey had exchanged information, criminal law in the case of Mr El Bakraoui would have been a very passable road, I think. I'm pretty sure about that. You must be a threat to national security. You need to be involved in preparing or helping with terrorist attacks. That is why I was wondering what kind of people we are looking for to whom this applies. All this is being thought of by the Minister, because he is going to decide it on his own. What kind of people can we deal with in the future, which we cannot deal with through the mayors or anyone else?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u109	This is an instrument by which you can impose preventive control on certain persons who give signals that they are radicalising or that they wish to leave or who have returned. This is a very good addition to the entire toolbox that is now being filled with Jihadism thanks to the Action Programme Integral Approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u110	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u111	I'm gonna take a look at the contents. Then I want to talk about the scope of the law. In order to be happy, I will also talk about enforcement. As regards the content, what measures are contained in this legislative proposal? In concrete terms, these are five administrative measures aimed at protecting national security, including reporting to the police. They've all been through the review, so I can skip them for a while. These measures will enable the Minister to prevent involvement in terrorism at an early stage. Of course, make sure that, if possible, the possibilities of criminal law are always exploited. They're in the lead. If that is possible, we certainly need to use, for example, pre-trial detention. If that is not possible, this bill offers good opportunities. In this broad sense, the SGP is therefore in agreement. Then I come to the scope of the law. We have made a few proposals which we believe are improvements. Firstly, the SGP believes that the legislative proposal should be more widely applicable. The first point is that the imposition of measures is only possible if someone carries out a terrorist activity that poses problems for the national security of the Netherlands. We were wondering why this was chosen. With the lessons from the El Bakraoui affair in mind, let's look again at this new law. From that point of view, we learn that we need to keep our eyes more focused on the outside. Countries and agencies can work together better than each occupying their own island and allowing the fire to continue at the neighbors. Let me give you an example. Suppose a radicalized Muslim from Roosendaal is busy to see how terrorism can be promoted in Belgium. He has not yet committed concrete acts of terrorism that can be prosecuted or for which remand is possible. However, the Belgian security service is aware of its ideas and plans and lets the Netherlands know. In that case, it is not possible to impose a reporting obligation on him. This bill won't allow that. The activities in Belgium do not have an automatic impact on national security in the Netherlands. Hence the question of why this was chosen. The SGP considers it necessary to allow a notification obligation and a ban on travelling to Belgium, for example. That is why we have prepared this amendment. Not only should the national security of the Netherlands be able to give rise to administrative measures, but this must also be possible if national security is to be compromised elsewhere. This greatly promotes cooperation between countries to counter terrorism. A second point concerning the scope of the law is the possibility of obtaining a temporary exemption from a measure. If a measure is imposed to ensure national security, it must be enforced effectively. Of course, there can always be special circumstances which require and require a temporary exemption. However, the SGP believes that this should really be limited to those exceptional, special cases. The intended impact of the protection of national security should also be ensured in that case. If that is not possible, no exemption can be granted. The possibility of a temporary exemption is now too general. In the second amendment, the amendment to item No. 14, we have tightened the legal text on that point a little bit so that there is more clarity. A third point concerning the scope of the law concerns the possibility of not granting or withdrawing a grant. This is only possible under Article 6 in the event of a serious risk that the subsidy will be co-used for terrorist activities or their support. The SGP wonders why this only occurs in the event of serious danger. Is just danger not enough? Do we accept when there is "only" danger of a subsidy being used for terrorist activities? In addition: is the character of serious danger not almost unproven? That is why we would like a somewhat stricter wording on this point. I come to the fourth and final point on the scope. In it, the SGP calls once again for the attention of the Minister for the criminalisation of residence in the terrorist area. We cannot accept that people travel to Syria, for example, with impunity, to support ISIS. Something must be done about that. That is why we call on the Minister to come forward quickly with further proposals for additional criminalisation, including in the light of the comments of the Public Prosecutor's Office on this matter. When can we expect such plans from the Minister? I would also like to dwell on the question of enforcement, which is an important point. The SGP is thinking in particular of ways of preventing exit. When a person has been banned from travelling, leaving the Schengen area, checks are needed and the passport is taken. The latter is also the subject of the amendment of the Passport Act. Now we are talking about control at the external borders of the Union, of the Schengen area. At various times we see that it is not possible to carry out a systematic check. Only discreet and unobtrusive control is allowed. It may still be the case, therefore, that a person who has an exit ban at the border is allowed to go through the databases of expired documents. How is the government going to ensure effective compliance with the legal measures? What possibility does the Minister see of arresting a person crossing the border himself for violating the exit ban? Another problem arises in the case of people with dual nationality. Even if the passport is taken from someone, it is possible that he will cross the border with his second passport whistling. It would be reasonable, at least, if the country in question had the willingness to do so, to have that other passport withdrawn as well. I will conclude with the point of judicial review, that thorny point. It has already been discussed. The SGP has the impression that through the usual administrative procedures there is simply plenty of room for review of the measures. If necessary, this can also be done by means of an emergency procedure. In addition, these are not punitive sanctions. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the conclusion is that the legal safeguards are adequately regulated. We look forward to a clear and benevolent response from the Minister to our questions and amendments. The SGP is also keen to see this extension of the scope for the fight against terrorism, which complements the toolbox that is gradually being filled up to combat terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u112	Mr. Chairman. The Kuzu/Öztürk group, better known as DENK, believes that terrorists need to be tackled hard and that we should do everything we can, that everything should be aimed at tackling terrorists and preferably preventing terrorist attacks. Terror ruins our society. Terror aims to divide society and turn people against each other. Terrorists want to hurt humanity through inhumane acts. Terror knows no religion, no descent and no boundaries. Terror is a common enemy of all of us, whether in Paris, Brussels, Ankara or Kabul; it is one and the same. We must also take the right measures to prevent terrorism in the Netherlands. I would like to say straight away that there has been a terrorist attack in Enschede recently, when a molotov cocktail was thrown into a mosque in broad daylight. Despite this, we are critical of this bill and ask the Minister whether he is not going to go through with it. We ask the Minister whether the measures contained in this bill will not be counterproductive. We ask him whether these measures will not lead to further stigmatisation of population groups in society and whether they will be effective. We've been a lot of jokes and jokes lately. Maarten van Rossem recently said: the reality is that the chance of a civilian being killed in a terrorist attack is less than drowning in a bathtub. We at DENK have four doubts about this bill: 1. the rule of law, 2. the chance of arbitrariness, 3. the effects on human rights and 4. the one-sided basis when we talk about terrorism. Firstly, we have concerns about the rule of law. At the same time, we are concerned about the fact that this bill extends the powers of the Minister. The proposal allows the Minister to impose a notification obligation, a ban on contact, a ban on territory and an exit ban without prior judicial review. The Minister wants to use the legislative proposal to give himself more and more powers to take preventive action for the sake of national security. That's why I'm asking the following questions. Does that mean that there doesn't even need to be a specific suspicion of a criminal offence? Is it morally responsible, or at all desirable, for a minister to be allowed and able to decide on matters that we have already agreed on in the past and for which we have included criminal law measures in our legislation? With these measures, are we not undermining the value of the separation of powers we use in the Netherlands? Do we not use these measures to use a reverse burden of proof? Are citizens not already suspected by this policy in advance? Isn't the rule "you're innocent until proven guilty" changed to "you're guilty until proven guilty"? I'd like a response. Secondly, we have concerns about the possible arbitrariness of this bill. The bill states that the Minister may impose measures on persons exhibiting certain "behaviours" that may be associated with terrorist activities. What are "behaviors that can be linked to terrorist activities" at all? For example, is a person with a head scarf, a beard, a djellaba or a burqa a danger to national security? Are these the specific behaviours mentioned in this bill? If that is not the case, I hope that the Minister will be prepared to explain, by means of a ministerial arrangement, what exactly are these behaviours? If not, he has already seen our amendment. We are getting more and more signals that people wearing headscarfs, going to the mosque or having a beard are being placed in the suspect bench. Recently, a young man came to the group with the story that the police went to his neighbors to find out if he showed radical behavior. Near his neighbors! The reason for this was a simple beard, a beard that the boy didn't leave behind before. Probably had a call in. Can the Minister imagine what it means for a young man's enjoyment of living in a neighborhood when the police come by to ask if there is a radical behavior? The boy about whom it is, attends specialist ophthalmology training. People are increasingly being looked at and addressed on their appearance or clothing. Are these "behaviourals that can be linked to terrorist activities"? I say again: I fervently hope not. However, it is social reality. How is the Minister going to test it, or do we do it collectively, as in the example I gave? Let's do it all over the street? Let's do it all over the neighborhood? I am sure we do not have to explain to the Minister that the legislative proposal can be arbitrary if there is no clear definition of these broad concepts. I'll make it stronger: it's gonna make it random. Thirdly, we are concerned about the impact of the bill on human rights. Can the Minister respond to Amnesty International's concerns? That organisation speaks with concern about the legislative proposal and the measures that give the government the power to restrict freedoms and rights of individuals. According to Amnesty International, the proposed powers could lead to disproportionate violations of the human rights of those concerned, in particular the right to freedom of movement and the protection of privacy. In addition, these measures increase feelings of further stigmatisation and discrimination against ethnic and religious minorities. I'd like a response. Fourthly, we have concerns about the unilateral basis of the concept of terrorism. When we talk about terrorism in the Chamber, we often talk about one type of terrorism. Last month I was present in Rotterdam at a demonstration against terror. The turnout was not expected, but this had absolutely nothing to do with the willingness to make a fist against terror together. This had to do with the fear that exists in it, in particular, the Muslim community. Until an hour before the demonstration, I received messages from people who were afraid to make their voices heard against terror. They were afraid of attacks by right-wing extremists. They were afraid of attacks because they were wearing a headscarf. They were afraid of attacks because they had a beard. Especially after the attacks in January and November last year, individuals were the target of Islamophobia. 89% of the cases involved people who were visible Muslims. Then where's the media hype? Are there numerous parliamentary questions asked? Are there so many oral questions on these subjects? Why is the focus at the moment one-sided on the dangers of terrorism, while right-wing extremists in the Netherlands are on the rise? We at DENK call on the Minister to assume his responsibility and to act against all forms of terrorism, wherever and directed against anyone. Is he gonna do that? Is he prepared to impose a restraining order, a restraining order or a reporting obligation on people planning an attack on a mosque? I'm rounding up. The attacks on innocent civilians following the attack in Paris last year and the attack in Brussels this year teach us that we should not be guided by fear. We must prevent all of us from taking measures through that fear, leading to injustice, ineffectiveness and arbitrariness. If we do that, we actually do exactly what terrorists want; then we do panic politics. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u113	Mr Kuzu was glowingly in favour of tackling all forms of terrorism. Of course, you can only agree with that. However, in order to combat terrorism effectively, is it not necessary to distinguish between types of terrorism? Should not Mr Kuzu, with the other members of the Chamber, come to the conclusion that jihadist, Islamic-inspired terrorism is currently the greatest threat to national security? Such attacks are of a different order than an attack by a bunch of criminals and right-wing radicals throwing a molotov cocktail. After an attack by the latter species, the rule of law does its job and the perpetrators are arrested. After that, the stakeholders will examine what can be done further in consultation with the directors and policy makers. I would ask Mr Kuzu if this is not of any other order. In my view, there is a great danger in the way Mr Kuzu singles out all terrorism, namely the danger that the diabolic nature of certain types of terrorism will disappear. The view of that just disappears. Does Mr Kuzu agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u114	I'm not afraid of that last one. If we are to act together against terrorism and to tackle and combat terrorism, we must, as far as I am concerned, ensure that a clear definition of terrorism is used. Terrorism is the inflammation of fear, the creation of contradictions. There is terrorism when people are attacked in broad daylight at a station or in a mosque. As far as I'm concerned, that's the same thing. If Mr Bishop is trying to point out here that, for example, the death of people in a mosque attack is less problematic or less serious, or has less to do with a terrorist motive, then I say to him that he is making the biggest mistake in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u115	I thought the people of the DENK movement called on them to think. I find such an insinuation so far beyond me that I will not even attempt to refute it. There has been no reason whatsoever to consider such a suggestion. I ask Mr Kuzu once again, because he is doing a fantastic job of bypassing the answer to my question. Is it jihadist-Islamic-inspired terrorism, backed up and equipped with money and weapons by IS, not of a kind other than a form of reprehensible right-wing violence, namely terrorism against mosques, for which the rule of law indeed has sufficient means to act against?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u116	I thought the S of the SGP stood for "Stately," but apparently I am also wrong about that. I'm sticking to my answer. I believe that there should be no distinction between forms of terrorism, whether inspired by Islam or by right-wing extremism. I do not think that we should classify the various bases of terrorism, unlike the SGP, and that we should not say that dealing with certain forms of extremism is more priority than dealing with other forms of extremism. We must fight all forms of extremism equally hard. I understand that Mr Bishop argues that if he is not, he should say that we must deal with certain forms of terrorism less harshly than the form of terrorism he is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u117	I would advise Mr Kuzu to listen carefully when I give an explanation or when colleagues give an explanation. Here too, his remark does not in any way make any sense. Mr Kuzu cannot in any way derive from my reaction that I say that right-wing extremism should be dealt with more flexibly or less firmly. I am concerned about the real threat. Mr Kuzu carefully avoids answering my question. That is his right, but I regret it, because now the possibility of jointly seeking a real approach to the problem is being blocked. We should work together to find a basis on which we can find each other in order to tackle the current problems of jihadist-Islamic-inspired extremism, as the people concerned call it; I quote only 'Jihadist-Islamic-inspired extremism'. The way that extremism is manifesting at the moment, the real threat it poses, is of a different nature. I say to Mr Kuzu, recognize the different species and types. Otherwise he gets everything on one plate and eventually he gets nothing at all. The threat will only get bigger. I hope for a good answer, but I find it difficult to ask the question for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u118	Although Mr Bishop asks the question a fourth, fifth or sixth time, I find that, if the answer to his question is not acceptable to him, he pretends not to have understood the answer to his question. I say very clearly here that we should not classify the foundations of terrorism. I believe that we must treat all forms of terror, wherever it is in the world, even here in the Netherlands, regardless of the basis on which it is based, in the same way, that is, very hard. Once again, I see that the way Mr Bishop explains his story only leads to classification and leads to the conclusion that we need to tackle one form of terror harder than the other. That's not what DENK stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u119	We have arrived at the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. The Minister needs a twenty-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u120	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u121	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to all the spokesmen for their comments and questions. For me, the legislative proposal we are debating today is one of the many measures we are taking to ensure the national security of the Netherlands. First of all, we do this by means of preventive measures. I will carry it out with my colleague Asscher. Of course, we pay attention to the role of mayors and municipalities. We know the so-called case consultation, which looks very actively at people who may be radicalised or already radicalised. Then we look at how we can deal with this effectively. Of course, there is also attention to repression, which primarily concerns criminal law. We have already extended our criminal instruments in such a way that, in fact, any behaviour which we believe should be punishable by criminal law can also be criminally convicted. That is also an answer to questions from Mrs Swinkels and others. They asked if there was no other way. Mrs Swinkels gave the example of the German exit ban. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked a question about this and said that it was an interesting suggestion from D66. However, it is already a criminal offence in the Netherlands and a number of convictions have already been issued for travelling out. This is part of the so-called preparatory actions. So I refer Mrs Swinkels to our own law on that point. I will not go into that further. Let's say criminal instruments are needed and possible. I call it criminalizing staying in the area. We have had it investigated. Part of the Chamber has also ruled on this. That was not a majority at the time. Nevertheless, I have already discussed it with the Public Prosecutor. The prosecution has said that we are actually seeing this was a moving insight, and that is why we are giving you positive advice on this matter. Why? Because we can sometimes not get enough evidence for the serious criminal acts, for example being a member of a terrorist organisation, preparing attacks or cooperating in terrorist activities as part of a terrorist organisation in a specific area. If we can prove that someone has actually been there, it might be possible, also on the basis of the two reports which have also been discussed this evening: the Erasmus University report, which provides important insights into how people in those areas can evade terrorist activity, and the AIVD report, which is now well-known, in which the same conclusion is drawn, namely that you cannot be in those areas without being guilty of either terrorist activity or intensive support for it. At the moment, I consider both aspects of whether it is desirable, as the Chamber suggests, to regard the residence in that area as a criminal offence, despite the investigation by the WODC, which we had previously requested from the Chamber. This showed that there was no reason to settle this in criminal law. At that point, there is moving insight. That can also be expected from the government. I very much appreciate the fact that the Chamber is keeping us on that point. The developments in recent years are not the same. The debate cited the example of someone who was in Syria. That is a different kind of return than someone who has returned in recent years. In many cases there has been much longer. We also see very few people returning. That was really different in the early years of the trip. Then a lot of people came back disillusioned. Now we're not actually seeing that happen at all anymore. The concerns we have about the people who are returning now are also many times greater. I have said it many times, and the expectation is that if someone returns now, in almost all cases there will be criminal activity. The Public Prosecutor's Office is already building files on well-known expatriates and what we know about the stay and the like. So now the question arises: that is what this bill is for if you don't have enough or enough in your hands for a criminal conviction. What else can you do? Then the answer is very little, until we get this bill through the Second and Upper Chambers. In any case, in the interests of national security, I can take a number of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u122	Then the bright side of the day is that the Minister wants to take a serious look at the criminalisation of voluntary residence on terrorist territory. Can the Minister say a little more about the time he still thinks he needs to come up with a proposal? I would ask this also in view of the fact that we have had to wait 20 months for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u123	Of course, the bright spot was there a little earlier, because I sent a letter to the Chamber about this. Mrs Van Toorenburg may have missed the point of light that has been there for a long time, but perhaps this is a brighter shining light. I think, however, that the letter to the Chamber should also be mentioned as a light. I believe that I also wrote in that letter that I expect to be able to take further decisions before the summer. I will therefore report to the Chamber on any timetable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u124	That is very good, because from the letter we mainly said that there were some ideas, but the Minister now seems to want to make this proposal in a very concrete way. We're happy if we can do that before the summer. Perhaps it can even be done at such a time before the summer that we can deal with it very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u125	Maybe I will speak for my turn and the Minister's answer will still be forthcoming, but I would like to ask the following questions. The Minister just spoke of the danger posed by returners. The explanatory statement states "The fact that someone has joined a terrorist group abroad is therefore not sufficient to impose the measure, even if only because a returned warrior may have turned away from radical thinking - disillusioned." How am I supposed to read that sentence? I actually just heard the Minister say that there are fewer and fewer of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u126	One doesn't bite the other at all. The experience was that in the past, after a fairly short stay in those areas, many people returned because they had seen what it meant to be there. Those people have had intensive conversations with them. All these people have been spoken to. They have all been looked at and may or may not have been included in the case consultation, because it is of course about people who were radicalised or who had radicalised intentions. In these cases, therefore, it is carefully determined whether such a person constitutes a risk to national security. For such a person, who has been found to have actually withdrawn, the fact that he was once a member of such an organisation is not enough for a criminal approach, but probably not enough for this approach, because the element "danger to society" is missing. The jumping point in this bill is that I can take the proposed measures when national security is at risk, while there is insufficient or insufficient justification for a criminal law approach. While you're collecting evidence, you may not be able to apply pre-trial detention because you haven't finished the case, but you're already worried and you'll say: let's at least take some measures, for example, an exit ban or a reporting obligation, to keep this person under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u127	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u128	I'll come to the questions. I'll do that in seven blocks. I therefore have a very thick document entitled 'amendments'. Given that we now have two weeks of recess, I suggest that I write a letter in which I give my opinion on each amendment. In view of the time I may not have to do that tonight. If the House agrees, I will send it well before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u129	I see that everyone agrees to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u130	A number of Members have asked whether this bill is intended to circumvent the safeguards of criminal law. No, of course not. It is really about the additional powers you need to be able to protect national security in addition to criminal law. I have already touched on the issue of Mrs Swinkels on the extension of criminal law. If, at any time, it appears that there are acts where we have not provided sufficient room for manoeuvre in our criminal law, then I am always prepared to do so because national security requires us to do so. Mr Bontes asked about the criminalisation of residence on the territory. I have indicated that I am in agreement with the Public Prosecutor's Office on this. That's what the letter to the Chamber says. If that consultation is positive, I will inform the Chamber. I say to Mr Bontes that traveling is basically punishable because it could be a preparatory act for a terrorist activity. Mr Bontes also asked whether all returners were being detained. At least they're always being held up. In principle, all known expatriate files are built up. Depending on the amount of information, the criminal law option is chosen or, if not possible, some of the measures proposed today can be taken on the basis of national security. In the context of this discussion, Mr De Graaf asked whether it was not a good idea to introduce the reversal of the burden of proof. That is very complicated, as Mr De Graaf, I think, knows. Such a change is at odds with the principle of innocence, which is enshrined not only in our Constitution, but also in all human rights treaties. Mr De Graaf's example also shows that the judge in the Netherlands is very well equipped with the current criminal law of evidence. We have recently seen quite a few convictions of people who have been condemned in all kinds of ways, either by recruitment, by funding or by calls for action, just within the criminal law in force. We have been asked whether this bill can be used to prevent violent preachers. We already have a number of other measures, which are very successful. The recent example of Eindhoven was mentioned, in which, through cooperation between the national government and the municipal government, a number of people on different grounds, in different ways and by different instruments succeeded in making preaching impossible. This bill is not necessary in itself. There will also be no need for separate criminalisation. We can do a lot of things about violence preachers. It is now also possible, and this has been agreed by the judge, to act against people who are legally resident in Europe. No visa can be withdrawn from them, but they can be successfully banned by the mayor. The Chamber knows that the municipality of Eindhoven and other municipalities also hold very intensive consultations with the NCTV. Mrs Tellegen asked whether this bill could also effectively address the organisations behind hate preachers. This proposal will not, in principle, be able to do so. You can take criminal action in any case if there is an inciting of criminal activity or if there is an inciting of hatred, violence, discrimination or other criminal offences. Then there's just the criminal element. In the end, on the basis of Article 20 of Book 2 you can deprive any organization with legal personality of its legal personality by disbanding it. For that, we do not need this bill in itself. We have already talked about this in relation to its financing, because I can find some clues for this in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u131	I have a question about the preachers of violence or hate preachers, whatever you want to call them. Take the example of Boskoop last weekend. In Boskoop a notorious preacher of violence, known from Sharia4Belgium and associated with a German violent organization, appeared. Those in the Netherlands, in Boskoop, can visit a mosque and address young people. If I understand the Minister correctly, it shouldn't be possible, but it will. What's the deal with that, exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u132	I do not know that example; it seems to have escaped my attention. The general rule is the following. As soon as we know that someone like that is coming, we have to know that in advance. Firstly, the question is whether such a person has a visa. If so, can we withdraw that visa? We have to have grounds for that. That is what is happening actively. Secondly, the question for the municipality is whether it wishes to do so. In general, it is wise for municipalities to come into contact with the mosque to see if it is wise to invite the person concerned. Thirdly, the municipalities have instruments, including an area ban, to make preaching impossible. Fourthly, there is always the relapse option that can be carefully considered whether what someone says is contrary to the law. If so, criminal action can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u133	It is a pity that the Minister does not know about this incident, because it has really been in all the newspapers. Mayor Spies of Boskoop got himself into trouble. Anyway, that aside. I'm just not sure this is gonna happen next time. Perhaps we should go a step further to stop this for once. Apparently, these guys can spread their hate message here in the Netherlands undisturbed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u134	That is absolutely not the intention. The intention is that they will not be able to spread these hate messages undisturbed. That happens with a lot of regularity. Mr Bontes knows the examples; I have spoken with him on many occasions. We have the instruments, we work well with the municipalities. In principle, our policy is to prevent this kind of people in the Netherlands from preaching hatred. If they do, we still have the opportunity to take criminal action against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u135	I have a question at the same time. There are two problems. We have hate preachers with an EU passport. The minister already talked about that. He has worked very hard with hate preachers from outside the EU, but within the EU, of course, is a different story. Those people are just free to go and stand wherever they want. They can simply travel to the Netherlands with an EU passport, just as Mr Bontes said. Too often we cannot act effectively to prevent these people. How does the Minister intend to talk to his colleagues in the EU about how we can collectively act against these figures within the EU, with the same commitment he is already making towards non-EU hate preachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u136	We already do. Mrs Tellegen also called for this. I picked up that glove and discussed it with my colleagues in the framework of the JHA Council a long time ago. I also invited them to exchange information both with each other and bilaterally on this group of hate preachers. That is what is happening, and that is why we are now working with a number of countries. We have lists and we'll warn each other if we know one of them moves from A to B. Of course, we also work intensively together when it comes to, for example, a visa issued by a Member State. We can then warn that Member State and ask for that visa to be withdrawn if it appears that the person concerned is using it to come to the Netherlands to deliver messages that are displeasure to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u137	That sounds encouraging, but what I really want to go to is that the mayor isn't put in front of a failure again and again by a hate preacher who is invited by an institution or an organisation here in the Netherlands who wants to offer him a platform. But that aside. Does the Minister now work at EU level towards a single list that we can consult from all EU Member States when someone announces that they are coming? So we can say, no, you're on the list, you can't get in!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u138	Of course, the latter is difficult, because for "you won't get in" you don't have a title. But you do have a title if that's someone who people are worried about in another country, like we have people we're worried about. In good mutual agreement, we can ensure that everything we can do is done. We can use a restraining order from the mayor's side to make sure that someone like that can't preach. It is also right what Mrs Tellegen says about the fact that these people are invited by an organisation. In the context of prevention, it is very important that we do not allow this to continue. That is a real task for the local government, but I know that a lot of local authorities are very active in this too. They must enter into dialogue with the local mosque or the mosque organisation and say: let's see who you do and who you don't invite. And: ask us early for advice whether or not it is a good idea for such a person to come to the Netherlands. This happens very often in practice; fortunately, where it does not happen, we also have resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u139	I'd like to continue on those resources. A conversation with an organization that invites someone like that is one thing. But what kind of sanction does a mayor have to say to an organization, a foundation or a mosque: listen, this is a hate preacher and he should not be able to deliver his message in the Netherlands? And if you don't withdraw that invitation, then... What possibilities are there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u140	A good example is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u141	What are the possibilities of sanctioning this platform, so not so much the hate preacher himself, but also the organisation? Because that is, of course, the most scandalous thing: that this organisation in the Netherlands can simply get away with such an invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u142	The mayor has the opportunity to make preaching impossible, for example by banning the territory. That has now also been reviewed by the judge, in the case of Eindhoven, and agreed. Well, that's for sure. That's one of the instruments you have. In addition, individuals will be able to be dealt with by criminal law, but also the organisation that systematically invites people to preach hatred can eventually be addressed through the same Article 20 of Book 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u143	I'm going to go back to that example. From today until 11 May there will be a conference at the As-Soennah Mosque, on Fruitweg 5, the friends the Mayor of The Hague is sleeping with. The mayor has the King secured by salafists when he goes to the market. He praises the As-Sunnah constantly in heaven and does not answer the Minister's questions by saying that he no longer cooperates with salafists. How can you expect such a mayor of The Hague to find out which people As-Soennah invites to such a conference? They do distribute pamphlets and announcements on Facebook, but they don't put on who they invite. That could be where the most horrible preachers of violence can sit and we can't get them out. What does the Minister have to say to that? How are we gonna find out who they are?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u144	I do not go into this particular example, but in general I can say, on the basis of my own observation in the last year, that there is very intensive contact in practice with organisations that come to invite people. We look very carefully at what kind of people they are. Measures will then be taken if necessary. That's kind of complicated. Mr De Graaf knows as well as I do that people who take the trouble to come to the Netherlands from another Member State will ensure that they operate within the limits of the law. It is therefore also up to the local authority to remain in dialogue with these organisations and to ensure that the people you do not want do not come here. I think that is very important. How to shape that is really up to local authority and that should also be discussed with the city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u145	That's a mistake of the Minister's mind. There is no dialogue with Islamic organisations. That is always a monologue on the Islamic side. That goes too far theologically for this debate, but it is useful for the Minister to know. Then how do we do it with mayors sleeping with these organizations? That is no longer a question of control by competent authority, is it? That is a far-reaching form of bending for that organisation, as mayor Van Aartsen does in The Hague. Well, then I'll come to that particular case. A mayor like that can't really control what he's supposed to control when he gets in bed with them, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u146	Mr De Graaf, please refer to the content and not to the person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u147	We have ensured in our country at a number of levels that there are checks-and-balances or controls for all forms of political directors. If there is a course of action by a mayor who might be uncomfortable, then it is up to the city council to take action. That is the answer to Mr De Graaf's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u148	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u149	Thanks for the answer. In any case, it is clear that the Minister is taking some distance from the mayor in The Hague. He says it's up to the city council. Of course, the Minister can't do anything about that right away. However, I am pleased that the Minister distances himself from Mayor Van Aartsen and says that this may be a situation that we should not want in the Netherlands. I think that's a nice opening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u150	I believe that I did not say that, but I do believe that it is clear that Mr De Graaf and I agree on this, and that is not only true of Mr De Graaf, but that is true of Chambers everywhere that when people deliver a message which we say is contrary to our national standards and values, we do not think that that message should in principle be conveyed. At least that's where we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u151	I'd like to continue with that for a moment. A good conversation with a board of a mosque can be very useful, if there is an intention to do good, but there is no such intention in salafistic mosques. That's where you're being fooled. The group chairmen of the VVD and the SP have repeatedly asked the government, with an elected chamber of inquiry, to make public what Salafist organisations there are. What mosques are there of salafists? That means that as mayor or police, you have to deal with it in a different way, because it's a different kind of people, with different intentions. I don't think there's gonna be a list. Why isn't that list here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u152	In my view, a comprehensive response was given when all the motions were answered. One thing's for sure. For me, the starting point is that we do not want people to convey a message that we say is contrary to our national standards and values. Whether we have a list or not is not so relevant to me. I really think we should look at this particular example. We're putting all our energy into that, too. We note that we have created an instrument, especially if there is this law, which allows us to do a lot, to do exactly what Mr Van Raak and I want together; let us know that there is no place for that message in the Netherlands. We all know that this can be done on the Internet and in all kinds of other ways, but in any case we have ensured that the government and local government act well. So we can stop it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u153	Still, you have to know what kind of meat you have in the cockpit, so what kind of people you work with, or not. I find it very remarkable that a mosque that invites a hate preacher can have a friendly mosque board. But you don't know, maybe these people are incredibly clumsy or the board should do something like that from its financiers. But it is good to know where the Salafists are, where those who consciously fool us are, who are the breeding ground of radicalisation, who lead young people on the wrong path, who lead young people to recruiters; where the people who are the beginning of the chain of the Painting District to the Islamic State are. Why can't we be clear about that? You can't make that public or say that. It seems as if there is some sort of taboo within the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u154	There is no taboo on people who send uncomfortable messages. Just look at all the criminal statements made in recent months: there are also those people, recruiters, people who facilitate, who finance, who encourage other people to contribute in those countries. So there's really a lot of attention to that. I believe that with this law we have the tools to act more effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u155	The minister said between his nose and his lips that the mayor could impose a regional ban on a radical preacher. So that's what the mayor does. So one of the instruments of this law can be imposed by the mayor. This also applies to reporting obligations and the like. I wonder what exactly is the reason why the Minister should do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u156	This has been discussed extensively in the written reply. I would like to repeat all that, because it is still early in the evening and we have plenty of time. The difference is, of course, that a mayor can only be active in his own municipality, while the minister can be active throughout the country. I think that is enough to answer Mr Van Raak's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u157	I see that Mr Van Raak is not so sure. He can ask his question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u158	Can the Minister identify areas that are not in a municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u159	This minister can designate many areas that are not in a municipality, or where a mayor has no specific competence to do something. How many municipalities do we have in the Netherlands, 400 to 500? Mr Van Raak's alternative would be to allow them to do the same thing I can do on my own by making agreements. The latter seems more practical to me. Mr Kuzu has asked whether we are not going through with this bill. I don't think so. I believe that the imposition of these measures requires a well-considered policy, which I will also pursue. Of course, each measure always requires an independent justification and an independent balance between proportionality and subsidiarity. I cannot give guarantees of its effectiveness, but I do see a number of ways of using this law to improve the security of the country if the criminal instruments cannot be used for that purpose. Mr Kuzu further asked whether this bill was for jihadists only. No, this law is for anyone who commits a terrorist offence, so for anyone who endangers national security. This could therefore also be left-wing or right-wing extremists, if they fall within the scope of the law. Mr Bishop asked about the possibility of withdrawing subsidies; if the danger is not sufficient, why should it be a "serious" danger? I realize that this is a far-reaching semantic discussion. However, one thing is certain, and I say this also for the Acts: rejecting an application or withdrawing a subsidy in response to serious danger does not mean that terrorist activities must have already taken place. This serious danger can also be expressed in other ways. The withdrawal or rejection of an application or grant is, of course, a far-reaching competence, with potentially significant consequences for individuals and legal persons. I believe that this power is necessary in order to prevent undesirable activities and their support. The "serious danger" criterion is part of the Bibob Act, which also knows that criterion. This criterion is therefore extended by existing legislation. Mr Bishop asked whether it would not be a good idea to make the safety of another state a basis for taking action in the Netherlands. I believe that an amendment has also been tabled. I will come back to that in writing. I think it is difficult to imagine how you could take measures in the Netherlands that are simply intended to protect another state. I think that with a jihadist or with someone who has terrorist tendencies, the danger of the Netherlands will very soon concern other states as well. However, if it is only another state, the question arises as to whether you have sufficient reason to do so in the Netherlands. How can a judge who will ultimately have to judge my decision weigh the danger to that other state? I think that's pretty complicated. For this reason alone, I think that we should stick to the thinking that we have incorporated into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u160	In my opinion, this is one of the key points of this law. Is this law going to contribute to greater interstate cooperation or not? I mentioned a case of a radical Muslim in Roosendaal who wants to become active towards Belgium. This seems to me to be an example in which national security is clearly not directly at risk, but Belgium's. It's a bit analogous to El Bakraoui. It should be possible to intervene at the moment when you see as a state that another state is facing a threat. This seems to me to be quite essential for the intended cooperation between services and states.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u161	Of course. Of course, that's exactly what we're doing. Let me give you the example of Rotterdam. We take immediate action when the French ask us to take a look at a specific gentleman who is in Rotterdam. We do so because we are concerned about our own national security, but certainly also because the French services seem to be concerned about French security and the danger that this person may bring with them. Of course, it is almost always the case that one is a danger to national security and a danger to the security of other European Member States. In my view, therefore, there is no big difference. I would just like to point out to Mr Bishop that the question arises as to whether it will be sufficient for the judicial test if it is merely a risk to another Member State. As far as that's concerned, I don't think that's enough. You'll always need national security. That is why we have chosen to do so in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u162	I would like to suggest to the Minister that this should be done as widely as possible. Then there may be a chance that this will be allowed. If it is very restrictive, then we are sure that this will never be allowed as land.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u163	It is a decision with far-reaching consequences for someone who is in the Netherlands. My jurisdiction ends at the Dutch border. Whether we like it or not, we do. In any case, this has been the case to a large extent since 1831. The question then arises as to whether there would be sufficient ground to protect other countries with my powers. After all, the system is designed in such a way that other countries do so themselves. I think that in many cases the discussion is semantic, because someone who has jihadist or terrorist tendencies is also a danger to national security very quickly. That is why we do not have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u164	If that is really the case, I would take care of it in that sense. That is the purpose of the amendment. I would ask the Minister to look again at that amendment from that perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u165	I'll be sure to. I will also respond in writing. Mrs Swinkels and Mr Kuzu have asked what kind of behavior it will be. I cannot, of course, give a kaleidoscope of the behaviour that would fall under the law here, because it will have to be looked at from time to time. However, the decision I take must clearly show which behaviour has led specifically to judgment. Posts of office will, of course, be part of that support. I am not going to give an exhaustive list of behaviors here, for the simple reason that I want to keep space open. I am already giving some insight into the response to some of the amendments that have been tabled. I want to keep it as broad as possible, because we do not know what will happen in the coming years on this point. I therefore believe that it would be awkward, in the context of this debate, but also in the context of any amendments, to frame in advance the behaviour which might be the basis of the measures by defining definitions, as proposed by Mrs Swinkels and Mrs Van Tongeren. I thought Mr Kuzu had tabled a similar amendment, but to do it with AMvB. That seems to me to be very undesirable, because I think our society expects us not to restrict ourselves, but rather to look as widely as possible at behaviour that we believe is endangering our national security. Society can therefore expect us to be able to apply these measures if it is not possible or not yet possible to take criminal action. Mr Recourt asked about joining a terrorist organisation. When is it determined when you apply criminal law and when you apply administrative law? I think it is clear that it is preferable to apply criminal law, because then you will have the opportunity to apply pre-trial detention. Of course, that's the very best option, because then you'll have someone under control too. Then we do not need to come to these other measures. I really see administrative law as a panacea if criminal law does not apply or does not yet apply. At least we have these measures. They offer less protection. We are all aware of that. But they do make more possible than we can do today. I believe that these tools are needed to limit the activities of such people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u166	I want to make this clear. Then I'm going back to the point of behavior. The Minister states that he does not wish to draw up an exhaustive list of behaviours. So if a person who is prosecuted on the basis of this subsequent legislative proposal does not come into contact with the administrative judge in advance, on what basis should the administrative judge decide? Based on the minister's office messages? What exactly is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u167	I see it exactly as our legal protection in the Netherlands always works. So you will have to prove to the judge that the basis you have taken for your decision is sufficient and will also stand in court. The administrative judge shall review public transactions in the usual manner, as is always the case, in any decision taken by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u168	Yes, but it is true that, through this legislative proposal, we are launching a process in which the administrative judge will initially not know exactly what it is about. Each case should then be dealt with separately. Is it really not possible, on the basis of a number of directives, even if they are formulated in a general way, to make these behaviours transparent, so that the course of justice is clear and ultimately benefits from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u169	No, because it is precisely the intention of this law that we should keep it broad, because we do not know what behaviour will be covered in the future. There is one criterion: the danger to national security. That's the criterion the judge's gonna have to test. If it is not sufficiently substantiated that this applies, my decision will not stand. If it can be properly substantiated, the decision will stand. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u170	Then I'll find it interesting. The Minister actually says in his words that the word 'behaviour' in this bill is superfluous, because it is a matter of national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u171	National security is not compromised because someone exists. National security is at risk because someone behaves in a certain way. That leads us to worry about national security. These practices are such that they are not or are not yet sufficient for criminal prosecution. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u172	I find the way in which the Minister responds to something that we are really worried about trivializing. He himself indicates that behaviors cannot be made clear and that he wants to take a broad approach. He then gives such an answer. That really disappoints me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u173	I understand the Minister's explanation. Administrative measures are needed when criminal measures cannot yet be imposed. Can the Minister give an example of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u174	A very nice example I have just given is the following. The criminal investigation begins. You're gathering enough information. You still don't have enough reason to take someone into custody, but you're worried about the person's behavior. I think this is the example of a situation where you could apply it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u175	Yeah, I think so, too, but it's still pretty abstract. At least at the beginning of the detention, the possibilities are quite wide. You're free to take on someone pretty quickly on the basis of a terrorist crime. Can we take it one more step more concretely?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u176	You can also remember that the criminal investigation did not yield sufficient results, that the detention is suspended for that reason and that you then apply it. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u177	I just heard the Minister say that it is the charm of an administrative measure that we do not yet know that we can use it for still unknown behaviour in the future. Does the Minister agree with me that it is quite different in criminal law? That is always about foreseeable behavior. People need to know what is criminal if legitimate action is to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u178	Of course, of course. That goes for the same thing here. Anyone who knows that he is acting in such a way as to endanger national security may be eligible for this measure. That's the criterion. It's in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u179	Does the Minister agree with me that the law does not state when an administrative measure as proposed can be taken? The behaviours involved are not defined in this law. I miss that definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u180	This also applies to a lot of criminal law provisions. The recruitment of a person can take place in an infinite amount of different ways, all of which are covered by one and the same description of the criminalisation of recruitment. That's no different from criminal law. The behavior in itself can be very different, but can lead to the same conclusion. That's the way it is here. The behaviours can be very different and can be things that I cannot yet imagine can happen in the future. That can evolve in any way. The key is: there is a danger to national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u181	Does the Minister not agree with me that the Code of Criminal Law is full of criminal descriptions, where conduct has always been specifically indicated? We are only talking about acts that threaten national security. That's a world of difference, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u182	That is why there is also a difference between administrative law and criminal law. That's why one has a punitive character and the other doesn't. That's the way our system works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u183	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u184	It has been asked whether it is sufficient if someone has a beard or has put on a djellaba. I do not think that is sufficient reason, because that does not automatically mean that you are engaged in terrorist activities or pose a threat to national security. I come to the second element, the scope of the bill. Mr Bontes asked why the bill did not allow administrative detention. We have frequently exchanged the view that administrative detention is not possible on the basis that you do not have sufficient reason to deprive someone of their freedom. I have therefore promised, at the request of Mr Samsom and Mr Klaver van GroenLinks, that I would do my utmost to do the best I can within the ECHR. For that reason, I have chosen to link an anklet to the area ban, so that you get as close as possible to what administrative detention might have the advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u185	Mr. Bontes, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u186	I'm always short, Mr. Chairman, you know that. The Minister wrote in his letter that administrative detention runs counter to the rule of law and that it may be at odds with the ECHR. It seems to me that this is difficult, because in Britain they know administrative detention and Britain has also signed the ECHR. Why shouldn't it be possible in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u187	I have discussed this in detail with my Belgian colleagues, because they have said once that they would like to do so. They too have now come to the conclusion that it is not possible. I will look carefully at it in the second term, but I believe that there is something different in the United Kingdom than what is meant in the Netherlands by administrative detention. I would like to return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u188	Please continue. How much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u189	Mr President, I am on block two and I have announced that I have five blocks in total. I come to Mrs Van Toorenburg's question as to what happens if the administrative measures are broken. Then criminal action can be taken and, because of course many alarm bells go off in relation to such a person, there is also the possibility to see if there are any other steps or possibilities. Well, at least you'll be able to take criminal action. Mrs Van Tongeren said: don't you think someone will radicalize more quickly when they are imposed on them? I don't think so. If someone is being imposed a measure, there's enough reason to worry about that person. I think we should do something, even if that means that someone doesn't like it. That is not a measure of not imposing these measures. Mr Bontes and Mr Recourt asked for the choice to limit the exit ban to the Schengen area. The exit ban is, of course, primarily intended to prevent people from travelling to jihadist combat areas such as Syria. In the Netherlands, due to the lack of internal borders in the Schengen area, such an exit ban cannot be maintained because control is difficult. If someone leaves with a second passport that is not Dutch, then, even if the second, not Dutch passport is known, the person concerned will be reported in the national search register. Then, for example, he will be arrested at Schiphol Airport if he tries to leave the country. An attempt to violate the exit ban is, after all, punishable under this law. If someone travels with a passport from another Schengen country, i.e. not from the Netherlands, but on another passport, that person will also be identified in the Schengen Information System and can therefore be noticed by international border guards. We are working at EU level to see if we can further improve the follow-up possibilities for this alert. I've already talked about that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u190	I have also asked questions about this in my contribution. At that time I mentioned two countries which did manage that for their own country. One was Germany and I think the other was France. What is the difference between countries in the Schengen area? Why do we want to regulate it for the Schengen area, when, for example, Germany simply regulates it for its own territory? Why can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u191	I think Germany has done something else. The Germans can't do what we can't, so everyone does exactly the same thing at that point. The Germans have only tried to make travelling from Germany more difficult with a kind of separate identity card. I did not think that this would have been possible in the end, but I will confirm this with full certainty in the second period. If my memory doesn't add up, I'll report it, too. Of course, Germany's attempt is equally valid in the same way that there are no external borders of Schengen in that country either, so the enforcement of such a measure is extremely limited. I'll check that before my second-term announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u192	Thank you to the Minister for that answer. I am going to look for it myself, so that we can get back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u193	Fine. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked whether municipalities would be encouraged to use the powers to impose restrictions on freedom. I see it this way: if mayors are worried about someone and are themselves failing in their measures, for example because they see someone moving to another municipality or someone using their free travel opportunities, then I assume that those mayors will ask me to impose that measure. It is therefore up to us to ensure that we can do so very quickly. Mrs Van Toorenburg was right to point out that with a number of recent legislative proposals, including the so-called Football Act, we have ensured that mayors in their own municipalities can take substantial measures if necessary. I really see this as an addition to the instruments that the municipalities themselves already have. The mayor can consult with me directly. That was a question from Mrs Van Toorenburg, but also from Mrs Tellegen and Mr Recourt. In an urgent situation, of course, the mayor can approach me to impose measures. In general, mayors know how to like me, too. Then I'll get to the legal protection, the judicial test. In the Netherlands, we have a system in which the administrative judge is competent to judge decisions of the government. The board judge does that in two ways. It may do so by means of a provisional provision which can be obtained in the very short term. This would allow the operation of the measure to be suspended. One of the Members asked whether it would not take very long for clarity to be established. You don't have to do that. Within a number of hours, such a case may be brought to the attention of the administrative judge. In doing so, the person concerned has direct access to justice. There's no objection phase. He can go straight to court to appeal. He can therefore also be heard immediately, even in the full extent of the decision. He may be heard in ordinary proceedings, but also in the course of an interim application. This also means that there is no need for a prior judicial test. I would also find that very strange, because it would seem as if we are systematically going to refer the measures we are taking to a judge in the field of national security. The government would then, by definition, take measures that would not be able to pass the judicial test. I think we should simply choose the system we have. There was a small debate on whether the ex tunc or ex nunc review should take place. The review is ex nunc and not ex tunc as Mrs Van Tongeren said. In assessing the appeal, the court shall take into account facts and circumstances which have arisen after the contested decision has been taken. That can work in two ways. It can work to the benefit of the person concerned, but also to his disadvantage. It works to its advantage if it appears that the danger that existed at the time of the decision has disappeared after the decision was taken. Then the decision will not stand; that may be clear. The other way around, it can work to the disadvantage of the person concerned. If the decision has been taken and the person appears to have done something completely different, it will be taken into account by the administrative judge in the appeal. For both reasons, we have explicitly opted for an ex nunc review. If the decision is submitted to him, the court may consider all circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u194	What possibilities does the Minister see for the ex ante review of his decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u195	I see all kinds of possibilities. I have also seen an amendment that creates the possibility of doing so, but I am not in favour of it for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u196	Then the Minister has given me a great deal of clarity. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u197	I am again pleased that I have been able to satisfy Mr Van Raak in his need. Mr Recourt has rightly said that it is then a question of whether you are working carefully, because you can fall back on what has happened since then. That's true. That might be possible. Of course, no one is waiting for such a heavy decision to go on. The proposed measures will only be imposed if the dossier provides a sufficient basis for doing so. It also works the other way around. At the time you allow carelessness, further information may lead to the decision not being maintained in any case. It works both ways. Here, too, a provisional provision is possible. Mr Recourt asked which test the judge should use. The marginal test relates to the policy freedom of the administrative body, but not to the determination of facts or the interpretation of the law. The question whether the person concerned has shown certain conduct and whether it fulfils legal criteria such as the protection of national security is therefore fully examined by the administrative court. I have answered Mr Recourt's question. How can anyone defend themselves against measures? In dealing with confidential information, the usual rules are also applied under the General Administrative Law Act. In some cases, the information cannot be disclosed to the data subject and his lawyer, for example to protect sources of intelligence services. Article 8:29 of the Awb provides an arrangement for dealing with secret information in an appeal against a decision. This will allow interested parties, as far as possible, to have a decision also reviewed by a judge on the basis of information whose knowledge should be limited. This is also the case, therefore, on the basis of the existing law. There is no ceiling for the extension of measures, as Mrs Swinkles asked. The ceiling is based on whether there is still a danger to national security. If that danger is no longer present, the measure will, of course, be withdrawn. I'll come to the block about the execution. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the reinforcement funds and all the steps we have taken. At least that's how I understood her question. We have actually informed the Chamber about this very often. We have strengthened operational services by 128 million. Its expenditure is on schedule and in accordance with the schedule. They apply, among other things, to the Royal Marechaussee, the first two platoons of which High Risk Security are ready. The remaining four will come in the course of this year. As a result of the preparation, the Assistance Units can be redeemed. This restores the original flexibility of the Royal Marechaussee. The DSI and the observation teams have been expanded. The response concept is adapted to speed and flexibility. The Rapid Response Teams have also been strengthened, in accordance with the agreements we made with the Chamber. And the margin of this debate has still been asked for cooperation. I have also sent a letter to the Chamber on this matter recently. That really is one of the priorities of the Dutch Presidency. In this context, we have also carried out the Samsom/Pechtold motion by advocating non-binding cooperation and compulsory information sharing. There are still a number of steps that we are going to take to the JHA Council in June, in which we will come up with a concrete action plan. We were able to lay the foundations for this in the last JHA Council. In doing so, we are going to make sure, in a number of progressive ways, that there are very concrete arrangements for strengthening the information position. We agree that this is necessary. This has also been demonstrated in the debate on Brussels. The fact that it is much better than many people think is also due to the fact that, of course, in a number of areas, we work very much together with intelligence services that cannot be discussed. This cooperation is also very good in the area of police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is getting better and better, as the figures and information provided to systems such as SIS and Europol show.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u198	Brief question, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u199	The Minister is right to point out that there is ever better international cooperation. My question was precisely about more local cooperation in the border regions. Can the Minister promise that he will at least be in consultation with the RIECs to see how you get optimal cooperation in municipalities that are almost crossing the border? I am getting signals, especially from Limburg, that this could be a bit more solid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u200	The Regional Information and Expertise Centre in the East region focuses on organised crime, as Mrs Toorenburg knows. From there, of course, we are also considering how to cooperate with North Rhine-Westphalia. If necessary, this can of course also be used to tackle jihadism and radicalisation. That is something that has already been addressed by the RIECs in the East region. For me, above all, it must of course also be about cooperation through Europol, Eurojust and the Europol Counter Terrorism Centre. The various data files we have for that are of course essential. When someone shows up, you have to be able to control him. Then, at the end of the day, this also applies to the Counter Terrorism Group of the intelligence services.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u201	The Minister is not answering my question. That's okay. I would just like to say that the CDA Group has asked serious questions about this in the States of Limburg. I'm assuming they'll get to the Ministry through that tape. I think the Minister doesn't want to understand or understand what I mean. That's at this late hour, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u202	I understand very well what Mrs Van Toorenburg meant. I think I have given a very good answer to that. The RIECs focus primarily on undermining crime, but it is also possible to agree with Nordrhein-Westfalen on jihadism and radicalisation. The RIECs are free to do so. I think that's what we should want to do in the Netherlands as well. Mr Recourt asked whether the multidisciplinary case referrals were also intended to check the administrative measures or whether this was only done by means of official reports. I think it is important that both reports of office and the case-by-case consultation can play a role in deciding whether to impose a reporting obligation, a ban on territory, a ban on contact or an exit ban. The case-by-case consultation can also ask me to do so. It can of course also take measures within its own municipalities. Mrs. Swinkels asked about the parole. Reclassification The Netherlands has written a letter to the Chamber. I intend to designate Reclassification Netherlands for the actual implementation of the electronic monitoring to enforce the area ban. That's what I'm talking to her about. In reply to a question from Mr Recourt, I say that if a document is found in the international SLTD, it says "Stolen and Lost Travel Documents Database' that travel document is withheld. The person in question will then no longer be able to travel with it. This is also a reason for a Schengen border guard to consult the Schengen Information System. He may then determine whether that person is registered as a danger to the safety of a Member State. The Schengen border guard therefore informs the Member State concerned. In principle, the SLTD and the Schengen Information System are not yet linked. However, last week, in the JHA Council, we had a discussion on whether it would be desirable to link these systems, so that a single point of contact, i.e. with one entry, could be used to visit and question all databases. That is an important starting point. In any case, I have reacted positively, as have colleagues from many other Member States. Technically, that is quite complicated and there will still be some legal problems. We have said: at least start with it, work out the interoperability of these systems. If you encounter any legal obstacles, report back. Then we'll have to figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u203	It is probably due to the lateness of my response to the Minister's comment on my question on probation. It was related to electronic surveillance. My question was whether he intends to involve parole in getting in touch with people who are being imposed such measures to see if there is room for deradicalisation and, if so, whether it can be started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u204	Not just the parole. Those people will certainly be the subject of the case consultation where the probation is part of, but much more the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the municipality and the ggd. They're part of the case meeting. They will, of course, play an important role in discussing these people and consider whether they can be deradicalized or that there is more danger of them. That is, of course, the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u205	I understand that it is also intended to involve the specialized department of probation, I imagine the Minister well-known who has been involved in such programmes since 2012 if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u206	They've been turned on in the case report. They are part of this, and of course they can continue to play the role they already play. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u207	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u208	Mrs Swinkels asked if there were enough powers to request and retain data for the purpose of investigating terrorist activities, also in response to the many questions raised by Mr Pechtold regarding the powers of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is what the debate on Brussels was about. I'll inform the Chamber about that. There are, of course, some obstacles in this area, including those relating to retention periods. I think it is good that D66 has highlighted these obstacles once again. I see this as an important support, including for a number of other legislative proposals that are still in the Chamber. I call it the ANPR (Automatic Number Plate Recognition) system, where travel movements of people can be stored and requested later. We do, of course, need a retention period to make that possible. I am very pleased with the comments made by Mr Pechtold on this point. If you want to know months later what movements someone made in the Netherlands after he arrived in the country, as in the case of Mr El Bakraoui, you will of course have to have a number of systems with the correct retention periods. I shall make a number of proposals to the Chamber, following the urgent requests made by Mr Pechtold and Mr Buma and others in particular. I've already talked about the dissolution of legal entities. A question has been asked about the loss of Dutch citizenship. Of course, this question is not directly related to this bill. However, one thing is certain: the loss of Dutch citizenship is intended to ensure that the person concerned does not return to the Netherlands or at least cannot return to the Schengen area. It serves the protection of national security. If the person concerned is in the Netherlands, we can of course take other measures, such as criminal action, or the measures contained in this bill. Mr Kuzu asked whether this bill would not lead to a far-reaching violation of people's freedom of movement. Yes, in principle, the bill sees a possibility of restricting people's freedom of movement. However, if this freedom is restricted, it is necessary for national security. That's what the law's for. Mr Bishop asked whether the foreign travel document could also be confiscated from people of dual nationality. With the exit ban that's now in the bill, you can't. The Netherlands cannot legally declare travel documents of other countries invalid. The seizure is therefore not enforceable. That means that we do not have any options in this area. I have already said that there are other possibilities. There has also been talk of the temporality of the law. I think we will come back to that in the letter. The temporality of the law is included because it is a far-reaching law that offers far-reaching possibilities. The proposal also contains proposals that interfere with citizens' freedoms, such as freedom of movement. I will reflect further on this in the light of the amendment that has been tabled. This brings me to the end of the answers to the questions put to me. So I will answer two questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u209	I'm still missing answers to two questions I've asked. The first question was about the following. This evening we are discussing these terrorist attacks, which are being talked about in a rather miraculous way. According to the PVV, the aim of the attacks is to prepare the people from Islam for the introduction of Sharia. Does the Minister agree with the PVV? Does he agree that this is a deliberate series of terrorist attacks unleashed on the West? That is the first question that has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u210	And what was the second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u211	I have also talked about working with an area ban instead of an area ban. The PVV would of course prefer that the ban on this type of jihadis would apply to the whole of the Netherlands and also to the overseas territories. Isn't it much more logical, however, to impose a territorial order so that you can check where someone is? For example, the attacks that were carried out in Brussels were actually intended for Paris. In the case of an area ban for one place, there are still a lot of places where one can stay. So I'm saying it makes more sense to work with an area bid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u212	I'll go into the last question first. An area ban can, of course, also be imposed in conjunction with other measures. We must, of course, be realistic about this. You can impose an area ban and combine it with a reporting obligation or with an exit ban. So you can also impose a number of measures at the same time. This will enable you to improve the overall functioning of the measures. They also become more protective in the interests of national security. Moreover, I believe that it will also apply that proportionality can ultimately be brought before the courts. An area ban that would apply to the whole of the Netherlands would probably not be considered proportionate. That would only make sense if someone threatened national security so seriously that they could actually be dealt with in criminal law. In such a situation, the best restraining order is pre-trial detention. That is how I see these measures in conjunction with each other. On the first question put by Mr De Graaf, I would like to say the following. What exactly are the motives of the twisted spirits of people who are attacking innocent civilians, I do not know. It's really hard for me to get involved in that. I can only conclude that their aim is to scare people in our society in a horrible way. I find that extremely reprehensible. I think we should do everything we can to stop these people from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u213	On the basis of the last answer, I have to conclude that terrorism is really something and that terrorists are people who want to instill fear on other people. In fact, the Minister's understanding is so empty. There is no other explanation behind it, but there is no urge to make an explanation either. The PVV knows that explanation; we know exactly where it comes from. Why doesn't the Minister acknowledge that? It is clear that from Islam there is a campaign in progress, the third jihad in which we find ourselves to conquer the West and subject the population to Islam. This is part of it. I would like to mention the recognition of this point. As far as the area is concerned, we are probably getting a little closer together, because it would look like the reporting obligation. So someone who's dangerous would have to get a little higher in rank. Once again, we would like to see these figures all out of the country, but in so far as this has not yet been done, an area bid is closer to reporting. It will then have to be kept strictly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u214	That's exactly the intention. In accordance with the law I propose, all the measures we have are criminal offences if they are not complied with. On that basis, we will have the opportunity to act in criminal matters. We have very well provided for a proper sequence of these measures. You have the administrative measures you apply when the criminal measures are not or are not yet possible. By definition, when these administrative measures are infringed, a criminal law measure is possible. I come straight to Mr De Graaf's question about the United Kingdom. The Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures, the TPIM, make it possible to impose different administrative measures, including an area ban, an anklet, a restraining order, the reporting obligation and an exit ban. That is the situation in England. For 2004 it was possible to impose administrative detention in the United Kingdom as well. However, this was considered to be contrary to fundamental rights by the English authorities and no longer possible for that reason. In the second term, I will come back to the Schengen exit system in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u215	That is why we have reached the second deadline. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u216	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying in the first term. When I said that I saw a glimmer of light in dealing with the returners, I did not for nothing look at the letter sent by the Minister on this subject. That letter was clearly less concrete than the Minister was tonight. In that letter he wrote that he had only spoken with the Public Prosecutor's Office and that he thought he should take another look at it, but today I can hear that he will make serious efforts to ensure that residence on terrorist-controlled territory will be punishable. That then takes a huge flight, because then we can organize anything when someone returns. Then you can actually take someone into custody, because then he's done something criminal. If we were to ensure that these people could do nothing, it would give so much air to those who really care about safety. The Minister will comment on the amendments, but I would like to hear from the Minister this evening about the power of the mayor to do something from his position in an urgent situation. Can the Minister say anything about the amendment we have tabled on this subject? The Minister has said that everything has already been written about the Royal Marechaussee. Yeah, that's right. For example, on 22 April last, a letter reported that the 50 people who joined it at Schiphol Airport were removed elsewhere. That's the point. If they are removed elsewhere, how will they be supplemented? The Minister has not yet given a concrete answer. The Minister reacted a little faintly about cooperation in regional contexts. I understand that the Minister has the idea: put it all there; they will figure it out themselves. There is, however, no hook for those regional links at least not in Limburg to see how cooperation with Belgium can be improved. One might perhaps have cooperated sympathetically in Nordrijn-Westfalen, but could the Minister just give some thought to the way in which the concerns in Brabant, also appointed by Cyrille Fijnaut, cannot be addressed the least? Finally, I shall table one motion, along with the VVD Group. We are a little concerned about the fact that the Minister states that you should not regulate and define everything closely because it no longer offers room for manoeuvre. One could also say that a behavior that may not be criminal or that does not give rise to any concrete suspicion but is very scary, should perhaps be covered by the law or at least developed in the implementation process. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government has previously indicated that "multiple conduct" must have taken place in order to impose administrative measures in the context of national security;]] [[Whereas the imposition of measures to protect national security may also be desirable on the basis of a single conduct or expression;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the implementation process implementing this Act that the identification of behaviour and imposition of measures may also be based on one or more behaviours or expressions likely to threaten national security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34359-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u217	As the Minister said, it is a threat to national security. That is why we need to consider whether we can make it so broad that, if there is a real threat, action can always be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u218	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. We look forward to receiving written answers to the amendments. Fortunately, we are receiving them well before the vote on the legislative proposal. It is important to establish in the first period that I have also argued that a number of small measures, small measures, will not cause the Netherlands to lose all its jihadists, that the Netherlands will lose the Muslim terrorist threat. If you really want to deal with it, if you really want to take action, it's important to recognise where the threat comes from. Even after two attempts, the minister didn't get there. That is a pity, that is a shame for the whole of the Netherlands. After all, that does not give you the measures you want. In addition, we must establish that we must not keep people here, but let them go. After all, we do not need jihadists in the Netherlands. We must also note that, if we want the Netherlands to be free from Muslim terrorism, we must all talk about genuine measures and not stick to the three minor measures in this law. I have another motion, but I also see Mrs Van Toorenburg standing at the interrupting microphone. I'd like to give her the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u219	A very brief question, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u220	I still want to continue to act against the fact that it sometimes seems as if the PVV is okay with people travelling out, on whom we have no vision at all, simply spreading death and destruction elsewhere. The PVV seems to think: boy, if they're kids in Syria, what it itches me, fuck off. It can't be! It can't be here and it can't be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u221	So what do we do? That's where we throw bombs, and here we start with an exit ban. It's not in proportion to each other. The CDA can keep screaming and making a lot of misfits, but I don't get it. I don't even understand the whole twist, let me put it this way. We're not yelling, we're talking about reality. I shall table the next motion on the reversal of the burden of proof. The Minister replied, but I would like to table a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the burden of proof for the various offences of terrorist offences is very serious, especially in the case of so-called returners;]] [[Whereas any person whose conduct may be associated with terrorist activities poses a danger to Dutch society;]] [[Considering that the "Destination Syria" report states that whoever travels to ISIS territory will knowingly choose to join a group that engages in terrorist activities and attacks in Europe and that in practice this means that both male and female extraditors, armed or otherwise, participate in the fight of ISIS;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the burden of proof in these cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Graaf and Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34359-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u222	Mr. Chairman. We discussed a number of small measures this evening: a ban on territory, a ban on contact, an exit ban. It is a step in the right direction. We will therefore support the bill, but it is far from going far enough. We lack measures such as administrative detention and criminalisation of residence in terrorist territory. The Minister is working on this, but of course it should have been done by now. Something should have happened to the penalty limit and the temporality and to the approach of violence preachers and institutions that give these guys a stage. We all miss that in this bill, but it is nevertheless a step in the right direction. We therefore support this proposal, but it is far from enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u223	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering my questions, but I still had and I still have four serious objections to this bill, which provides for far-reaching measures, the Minister said that it itself could be imposed without concrete evidence and with unclear definitions. I will briefly repeat my four objections. Firstly, the need for the law for D66 has not become clear. My group believes that the criminal instruments are sufficient. Secondly, my group has doubts about the proportionality of the law. These are far-reaching measures. According to D66, these measures go too far and rely on far too vague criteria. Thirdly, there is a lack of legal protection because it is unclear what a measure is imposed on a person. Fourthly, D66 has doubts about the effectiveness of the measures. Much prefers my group to see the focus on measures that are effective and that, for example, would have really stopped an El Bakraoui. This is about the mandatory exchange of information by the intelligence services and the adequate equipment of the police and the intelligence services themselves. My main objection is and will continue to be that there is no prior judicial test, while, as far as my group is concerned, the judge is the institution of our rule of law which can determine whether anyone presents a danger to national security. The votes on the amendment I tabled with GroenLinks and on the amendment tabled by Mr Kuzu therefore determine the final position of D66 on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u224	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. At the beginning of my first term, I indicated that my group will vote in favour of this proposal, at least that I will advise it to do so. The answer has, however, increased that feeling. I wasn't aware in advance that this is a full judge's test. I think that is a strong point. As always in administrative law, the judge will check that sometimes briefly and sometimes slightly longer after the imposition of the measure by the board. It is therefore not necessary to make it a kind of criminal procedure and to leave that decision to the court and to have it examined in advance. No, the judge takes that test in many cases and in all cases in administrative law, at the end. That's good. Furthermore, I think it's okay, I realized that only later on, the ex-nunc key of course also means that the defense can bring in ex-nunc information and that the judge also weighs that information in the full test. That means that this bill with a horizon clause and other safeguards is in balance. On the right, it wants to be a little more left-wing, but the Labour Party is satisfied with the balance in this bill. Let's see how it works. If it doesn't work, it'll be gone in five years. Otherwise, we're gonna go on for a little longer until it's no longer necessary and then it's gonna go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u225	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the clear answer. The VVD strongly supports this bill and considers these administrative measures to be an important complement to the criminal law instruments we already have to combat and combat terrorism and jihadism in the Netherlands where possible. I make two more motions, because the VVD believes that we should do everything we can to prevent hate preachers and to address the institutions that invite them where possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary to ensure that persons susceptible to radicalisation are not inspired by hate preachers;]] [[Whereas there is a need among mayors to prevent hate preachers more easily;]] [[Considering that efforts are now being made at EU level to address hate preachers from outside the EU;]] [[whereas we do not yet have an answer to hate preachers travelling through Europe with an EU passport without being able to deny them access to our country;]] [[calls on the Government to address hate preachers from within the EU by drawing up a list of hate preachers from within the EU and, if possible, jointly with other EU Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary to ensure that persons susceptible to radicalisation are not inspired by hate preachers;]] [[Whereas organisations and institutions regularly invite hate preachers who make or have made statements that threaten our free society;]] [[considers that organisations and institutions have an obligation to provide a location to whom they make available;]] [[believes that organisations and institutions that offer hate preachers a stage should be affected;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible for organisations and institutions that invite hate preachers and/or a stage to be sanctioned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tellegen, Mr Bontes, Mr Bishop and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34359-21]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tellegen, Mr Bontes, Mr Bishop and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34359-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u226	Mr. Chairman. I remember years of debate on the granting of powers to mayors on football hooligans, but we now pass a bill in one evening. It turns out that fear is a very, very bad counselor. The tendency in our society to take harsh repressive measures on the basis of fears in society will cause society to continue to derail. In his reply, the Minister indicated that the instruments resulting from this bill apply to all terrorist offences. However, some of our objections remain, such as arbitraryness and definitions, which cannot be sufficiently clarified. Questions about the feelings of stigma and discrimination against ethnic and religious groups are not answered at all. In that sense, I ask the Minister whether he actually realizes that we are at a crossroads in our history. We stand before the decision whether we defend our achievements with man and power to show all those terrorists that they are not getting us under them or that we are giving in to the divisions and fears in society and the world, in which we hang our heads and go along with the repression. Which side of this story does the Minister intend to go into the history books? This bill seems to be a remedy for further damage to our rule of law. It is the beginning of a journey that can eventually end in a form of Guantánamo Bay. We'll fit in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u227	I see that the Minister is ready to reply; I believe that this can be done very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u228	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the spokesmen for their contributions in the first and second periods. Let us note that the background to this bill is that we see that there are groups in the world who want to change our way of life, who deny our freedom of expression, our freedom of religion, our freedom of assembly and our freedom of demonstration and who also have nothing to do with the understanding of physical integrity. That is why we in Western society, but certainly also in the Netherlands, are developing instruments to ensure that these groups and the individuals associated with them do not have the opportunity to limit our way of life. We are doing so by means of criminal measures and, if it is a bit lucky tonight with the assent of the Chamber, also by means of administrative measures. These measures are necessary in order to ensure effectively the national security of the Netherlands, as best we can. At the same time, we must also recognise that there is no 100% guarantee. I'll start the motions right away. I will also come back to Mr De Graaf's question on the system in Germany. In the motion in part No. 18 by Mrs Van Toorenburg, co-signed by Mrs Tellegen, the government is invited to consider, in the implementation process, whether one behavior on more behavior is not sufficient to threaten national security. I imagine that I will go into this motion in writing in the letter on the amendments. I would really like to take a careful look at this, partly in view of what we have written in the explanatory statement. So, with your permission, I shall suspend my judgment on this motion for a resolution. In the motion in part No. Mr De Graaf, co-signed by Mrs Helder, asked the government to reverse the burden of proof. I have already indicated in the debate why this is undesirable. I must therefore discourage the motion. Then I come to the motion in part No. 21 by Mrs Tellegen, Mr Bontes and Mr Bishop and Mrs Van Toorenburg. It calls on the government to address hate preachers and, in that context, to promote the establishment of a list of hate preachers within the EU and, where possible, to do so jointly with other EU Member States. I consider the work that I am being asked to do here to be the work I do. With the permission of the Chamber and also in consultation with the Chamber, I have been working on this a few months ago. I therefore see the motion as an important support for the policy I am pursuing. That is why I leave the motion to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 22 by Mrs Tellegen, inviting the government to enable organisations and institutions that invite hate preachers or offer a stage to be sanctioned. The fact that people are hate preachers and that you make it possible for them to do so is punishable on the basis of provocation and collusion of sedition. That's already in our Code of Criminal Law. People who are guilty of this can also be prosecuted. If I may see it as an understatement of the importance of using this criminal instrument wherever it can, I consider this motion to support policy and I would like to leave it to the Chamber. Then I come to Mr De Graaf's question about the German system. It's actually pretty simple. The Germans have opted for the system that they can withdraw a passport from someone and then issue an identity card to someone who lives in Germany. This then only applies in Germany as proof of identity, but does not give the right to cross the German border. Legally, there's no basis to leave the country. The practice is, of course, that there is no obstacle to travel within the Schengen area with that identity document given the lack of border controls. Although this has provided a legal basis for not leaving Germany, it will have very little effect in practice. If it has any effect, it will have the same effect as with us, if we signal a passport that has been declared invalid or if we signal someone in the Schengen Information System (SIS) or in another system. When such a person arrives and the identity card is examined in any form, it will lead to a signal that something is not right. I do not see the added value of the German system. The practical value is also limited, I think. For these reasons, I am not in favour of this. This brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-13.u229	The Minister will respond in writing to the amendments tabled and to Mrs Van Toorenburg's and Mrs Tellegen's motion for a resolution before the vote on 17 May. 18. On Tuesday 17 May we will vote on the bill, the amendments and the motions. I would like to thank Members of Parliament, the Minister, his supporting officials, the messengers and the people who have followed this debate on the Internet. I wish everyone a very nice recess.
