ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport to the First Chamber. I call Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Almost 70 years ago, in 1947, the first medical-ethical research code was established. This code contained ten ethical provisions to guarantee the rights of subjects participating in medical research. These ten provisions have together been called the Nuremberg Code, because they were pronounced during the doctoral process in which Nazi doctors were tried for unethical medical experiments during the war. The first provision was: "the voluntary consent of the subject is absolutely necessary." This provision, which was later taken up in the 1964 Helsinki Declaration of the World Medical Association, meant in fact that no medical scientific research could be carried out with children and other wiles, especially in the case of non-therapeutic research, i.e. research that could not benefit the subject himself. After all, they are not, or are not yet, able to take an autonomous, voluntary decision on participation in a scientific study. The underlying "protection paradigm" of these first ethical guidelines was understandable after the horrors of World War II. Over the years, however, the Helsinki Declaration has evolved along with changing social ideas. It was right to draw attention to the downside of such strict medical-ethical principles: if there is never research with children and other non-wisdoms, new medicines and interventions have not been tested on these groups either. But, to stay in pediatrics as an example, children are not small adults. For example, there are diseases that occur specifically in childhood, for example diseases that develop very early such as Duchenne muscle dystrophy, metabolic diseases and all treatments in neonatology, and children have a different metabolism than adults. Simply adjusting the dose to the weight does not work, and is even dangerous. In 70 years, we have moved from a "protection paradigm" to a "participant paradigm," in which subjects have become an important and as equal a partner in medical research as possible. But the current Medical Scientific Research Act with humans still relies heavily on the "protection paradigm." However, such research inherently raises the ethical question to what extent it is justified to include children and unqualified adults who are unable to give independent consent themselves in medical scientific research that they themselves cannot expect any benefit from. Progress and innovation in medical and scientific research and future treatments, on the one hand, and the well-being of the minor or unwilling subject, on the other hand, lead intrinsically to complex considerations. That is why I am grateful that we can discuss with each other and the Minister in plenary today to come forward with proposals to improve the guarantees of medical research with children and other non-skills. The members of the D66 Group specifically need to address one concern: the doubt as to whether there are sufficient checks-and-balances in the newly proposed situation. If the limit of acceptable risks and the burden of medical research is no longer absolute, but becomes a relative consideration, what is the limit of acceptable risks and what protective mechanisms are in place? Let me explain this concern. Under current legislation, non-therapeutic medical scientific research with will-skills is not permitted in principle, unless such research cannot be carried out other than with that group of persons. In the newly proposed situation, a Medical Ethics Review Committee, a METC, may give a positive opinion on a non-therapeutic research protocol if "the study involves only a minimum risk and a minimum burden compared to the standard treatment of the patient's condition in the case of scientific research which cannot benefit the subject himself." If there is no standard treatment, a METC may give a positive assessment of a study protocol if "the study involves only a minimum risk and a minimum burden due to the nature and severity of the patient's condition in the case of scientific research which cannot benefit the subject concerned." This is a big paradigm shift. From a policy of 'no, unless' we go to 'yes, if', where risks and taxes can be significantly higher than we now consider acceptable. Moreover, we now need to differentiate between different diseases and treatments, because we are moving from an absolute risk assessment to a relative assessment. In addition, it matters whether children and other non-skills still have a so-called "therapeutic window." That is, at what stage of the disease they are at and whether treatment is still possible. Let me give you an example. In children's oncology, most children receive chemotherapy, either curative or palliative. Almost all chemotherapy courses have annoying to even very serious side effects. In other words, these children are used to high risk and stress. Now there are two possibilities in this situation. First of all... The standard treatment still works, but the children are also eligible for so-called add-on studies that are often added to standard treatment such as lab tests, where blood, bone marrow and other tissue are taken away, e.g. a muscle biopt or different ways of inserting lines. Can we include these children in such studies when they themselves will not benefit because they were already used to taking high risks and heavy loads during their standard treatment, "because they are used to doing so"? Does palliative care at the end of life fall under standard treatment according to the Minister? I'd like a response from the Minister. Second. The standard treatment no longer works or is not there at all. A new medicine is available that is still to be tested in children and of which no individual benefit is to be expected. It is a so-called phase 1 study that looks at safety and the maximum tolerated dose. So hair loss, nausea, vomiting, risks of severe infections and long-term risks........................................................... are acceptable risks and stress in studies that these children will not experience an individual benefit?......................... I'd like to hear a response. Mind you, this is a non-therapeutic investigation. This therefore means a phase 1 study in which only the safety of a new product is investigated and not yet its efficacy. If the experimental intervention already reaches phase 2, in which the action is tested, the sick subject is often already dead. According to this bill, studies with children may be carried out when there is no standard treatment and when the study is at least risky and minimally burdensome, given the nature and severity of the disease. According to the Minister, does phase 1 research fall under this situation and therefore may the child be exposed to higher risks and more burdens than we now consider acceptable? Or should the study be designed in such a way that there is a chance of individual benefit for children as is currently the practice in combined phase 1 and 2 studies? I'd like a response from the Minister. Both scenarios therefore include children for the purpose of medical research, and for the benefit of children with cancer after them. Research into effective therapies for children with cancer and for many other diseases occurring at the child's age, such as Duchenne muscle dystrophy and rare genetic diseases, is of great importance, but it is important that we all realize, and also the people involved, that we ask for great sacrifices from such sick children for the purposes of others and society as a whole. I'd like a response from the Minister. In my group's written questions on checks-and-balances, the Minister responded that the METC or CCMO will ensure that children who experience the study as more than minimally burdensome are prevented from being included in such a study. Now I myself am a member of such a METC, and I know from experience that ethics committees judge the study protocol prior to the study. Once there is a green light for the study, it is out of reach of the METC or CCMO. Therefore, no individual cases are discussed. Only in case of a SAE, a serious adverse event, or a SUSAR, a suspected unexpected serious adverse reaction, i.e. in case of an undesirable event in the subject where the reasonable suspicion is that it is related to the study, should the METC be informed. So that's only when things really go wrong, and it doesn't say anything about the load, about how children experience the treatment. Can the Minister explain to my group how METC can ensure that no children are included who experience a study as too burdensome? And if this is beyond the scope and remit of the METC, what authority can do this? The METC decides in advance and afterward the individual inclusion is often with the doctor or researcher, especially in paediatrics, that is one and the same person.... and with the parents, and possibly with some older children also with the child itself. A persistent phenomenon in the inclusion of subjects is therapeutic misconception: the misconception that participation in research is the same as receiving a person-oriented treatment from the physician. The therapeutic misconception makes it difficult to obtain valid informed consent, because people confuse the goals of care and research. That is understandable, but certainly in non-therapeutic studies in very sick children, the doctors should actually say: "we can include your child in a non-therapeutic experiment. The chances that your child will benefit from it are almost nil, but children will benefit from the knowledge that is gained afterwards. You can also refrain from the experiment, go to Disneyland Paris with the family one more time and spend the last few months together." However, the chances of this being so honest are not so great, because studies have shown that doctors also suffer from therapeutic misconception, and because the whole hospital and our innovation model are set up to do something. Undoubtedly good intentions of doctors and parents can sometimes lead to very burdensome studies. That is why I ask the Minister whether there are enough protection mechanisms in the new law. Are there ways to prevent the relationship between doctor, parents and child from obtaining insufficient or adequately informed consent? These questions have, of course, already played a role in the current situation, but they become all the more important in the newly proposed situations where non-therapeutic studies can take place with higher risks and loads. Article 10a of the legislative proposal provides an important addition: "objections and risk are defined and monitored permanently by the person carrying out the scientific research." I would like to hear some more concrete proposals from the Minister for this, and I will also do something about it. What counts as risk or tax is very variable and also personal. We also know little about how children and adult wills in scientific research experience both therapeutic and non-therapeutic stress of research. Therefore, in non-therapeutic research, we could standardize the load by developing an app that asks the subject how it is doing every day. A reaction with a colour, for example green/orange/red or with smileys can be sufficient. The scores will end up with an independent doctor or a Data Safety and Monitoring Board, who will signal with orange or red, or with a sad smiley smiley face. In this way, the individual subject can be better monitored and we learn more about what he or she experiences as incriminating. Does the Minister see possibilities to formulate such additional conditions? Does the Minister see opportunities to encourage such initiatives? In addition, my group is in favour of a regular review of the legislative amendment with a strong voice for patients and patient associations. In order to learn more about how children and adult willless people experience tax and how responsible inclusion and informed consent can best be achieved, parents, and if possible and still alive, patients could be invited to look back on the inclusion, the study, and how parents and children have experienced this. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally. At the moment, a European working group is working to finalise the EU guideline on how to interpret the new EU regulation. Can the Minister inform us of the state of play of that working party? Does the Minister expect further amendments to the current legislative proposal to be required as a result of that directive? The Dutch Association of METCs is also working with the CCMO on a review framework for such studies. In the further reply, the Minister indicated that he expected this framework last summer. Apparently, that didn't work out. What's the status? It will be clear that such a concrete review framework is of great importance, precisely for the concerns expressed by my group. My group is, in principle, in favour of extending the possibilities of non-therapeutic medical research with children and the willless. It is an important, but inherently also often tragic, theme because it concerns research into sick or even terminal children and adult will-skills. In the event of such a large shift from a "no, unless" policy to a "yes, if" policy, my group considers it vital that checks-and-balances are integrated into the whole process. My group is looking forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u3	I have listened with interest and largely also to Mrs Bredenoord's speech. I have two questions. If I understand correctly, in the first part of her speech, she set out a number of groups of patients as an example of whether or not they should be included. Those weren't individual patients, they were groups. I would think that you would then arrive at the Committee on Medical and Ethics which would have to take a decision on this, particularly when it comes to patients whose decision is not easy to decide whether or not they should be included. Mrs Bredenoord is herself a member of a committee. What could you add as a legislator? In the second part of her speech, she raised the question of who is monitoring the extent to which the patient suffers once the study is under way. Who else but the doctor who is not only a researcher but also a doctor, and therefore continues to be covered by the WGBO? He or she is, also legally, obliged to supervise that. Then you can design a whole thing with smileys and apps, but we still have a doctor who is obliged to keep an eye on whether the patient is suffering unnecessarily and if so, to put an end to that study. He's gonna be a treating doctor too, and he's never gonna be a researcher alone, is he? I would like an answer to these two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u4	Two long questions. I'll start with the first question. METC follows a legal framework, either METC or CCMO, depending on whether or not it is therapeutic research. I ask the Minister to give an interpretation of this legal framework. At the moment, non-therapeutic phase 1 studies, so the very first time a new intervention is tested for will-skills and children, are almost not allowed. The CCMO almost never gives permission for non-therapeutic research in will-skills. One of the reasons behind this amendment is to see whether there is scope for extension. I have quoted the provisions on standard treatment or the situation if not, and they are not the easiest sentences. I'm a METC member, but I may have had to read them eight times to understand what it says. I think there's still some confusion. I think there is also a need to hear from the Minister in the field: how should we see this and can we do phase 1 research? If you compare it to a standard treatment, palliative care is a standard treatment. If so, then the risks are suddenly much lower, because palliative care is accompanied by relatively few risks. That is the answer to the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u5	Do you mind if I respond to that? Is this something you have to put in the letter of the law? Or can we, by the very existence of our medical-ethical committees in the law, be satisfied with the frameworks and such individual decisions are, of course, left many examples imaginable to those committees? After the eighth time Mrs Bredenoord had understood, she said just now. Then it's solved, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u6	It is good that Mr Bruijn has great faith in the quality and professionalism of medical-ethical review committees. I'm interested in the checks-and-balances. Also a METC consists of highly driven volunteers, because that is what it is. They're people who go through very big medical protocols on Sunday afternoons. If you can't do that on Sunday because you have to prepare a meeting of the First Chamber, you do it on Saturday. There's a limit to what you can put down with the METCs when it comes to such large risks in subjects. That is why I am a little more reluctant than Mr Bruijn. I would also like to answer his second question as to whether the doctor should monitor that. In the ideal world, but also the doctor suffers from therapeutic misconception, and risks and burdens shift. The first time a patient or subject hears about the possible load or side effects, they startle back, but slowly they get used to it. So you just need an instance or person who doesn't think it's normal that you're in so much pain that you have to vomit or feel sick so often. Someone who asks the question: is this still a decent risk that we put people at risk? On the contrary, it is a good thing that an independent body should take a closer look and determine whether the tax is still acceptable. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. I make this contribution on behalf of the SP Group and the Party for Animals. At present, under the Law on Medical and Scientific Research with Humans (WMO), medical scientific research with minors, children up to the age of 18 years is prohibited in principle, and multi-year-old willons were able not to directly benefit themselves, also known as non-therapeutic research. Such investigations should only be carried out under strict conditions. For example, according to Article 4 of the WMO, medical scientific research of which the participating children and adults are not able to benefit themselves and whose risks are more than negligible and the objections are more than minimal cannot be carried out. This is seen as detrimental to the development of medicine for children and adults. The purpose of this bill is to amend the Law on Medical and Scientific Research with People with a view to removing legal barriers existing in the Netherlands for medical and scientific research with children and multi-year-old will-skills and thus for innovation. The SP Group is in favour of scientific research to prevent diseases within the frameworks provided by the legislator. However, the SP Group and the Animal Party still have a number of critical questions on the subject of the present bill concerning the following three elements: the legitimacy why should the criterion be extended? (b) the consent and compliance with the Protocol and with the laws and regulations. The first part is the ID. Why should the current criterion be extended? What's the hard evidence that we have to do this? In the further reply, the Minister writes that the CCMO assessed 91 non-therapeutic protocols with minor and unwilling subjects between 2009 and 2015, for a period of six years. Of these, three were rejected because of the non-minor risks and load. Of these three, it was also not possible to determine whether they had been allocated with the criteria currently proposed. The Doek Committee's report only deals with the investigation of minors. What is the hard evidence that the proposed extension of medical research is also necessary in the case of adult will-incompetents? I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u8	I have a question for Mrs Wezel. Couldn't there be some kind of bias because, as I know it from practice, there are no more investigations being offered to committees, because the criterion is that there must be willpower, especially when it comes to unqualified adults? Is the number of studies offered a criterion for the necessity of the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u9	I could, but I'd like to hear that from the Minister. What does the old criterion "negligible risk and minimum objection' mean, what is the new criterion "minimum risk and minimum load compared to standard treatment of the patient's condition' and what is the difference? I would like to receive a response from the Minister in such a way that a non-medically trained citizen can understand this. The relative nature of the new criterion "minimum risk and minimum load compared to the standard treatment of the patient's disease" may mean that as the medical treatment of the subject concerned is heavier, it can be subjected to more stringent and riskier scientific research. Could the Minister explain what this means? After all, this is a group of subjects that is physically and psychologically vulnerable and does not have a say in the decision-making of their research participation. It is also a question of research which does not directly benefit this group. I would also ask the Minister to include in this reply the second sentence of Article 7 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which provides that no one will be subjected to medical or scientific experiments without his or her consent. Could the Minister explain why the general interest of the progress of medicine in the Netherlands should outweigh the importance of the personal physical integrity of the willless person as laid down in Article 11 of the Constitution, especially since the research does not benefit the person concerned in principle? The second part is permission. I have spoken to many about this bill. I hear that people want to use their right to self-determination before they become incompetent. They want to be able to decide whether they want to give their consent or not whether medical and scientific non-therapeutic research can be carried out on them in the event that they become willless, for example in the case of dementia. They do not want to be dependent on any future legal representative. They want to be able to rely in advance on their rights as laid down in the second sentence of Article 7 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Article 15 of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Article 3 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, which provides that no person will be subjected to medical scientific experiments without his or her freedom of consent. Article 6 (1) (c) of the Human Medical Research Act provides that medical scientific research is prohibited in the case of unqualified adults without the written consent of the persons referred to in this Article. However, this does not include the person concerned himself. Citizens want to be able to decide this for themselves. They do not know whether they will become incompetent or when. They do not want to run the risk of, for example, forgetting or disappearing any written authorisation. They do not know who will be their legal representative and whether they will get it. They don't want to depend on their families. They do not want to incur any costs for recording a statement with the notary, apart from the question of where the notarial act should be stored and whether anyone is still aware of the existence of that document when it is in place. They want to be sure that medical and scientific non-therapeutic research is not carried out on them if they become willless, regardless of the depth of the research. Citizens want, as with the organ donation, to be able to record their consent to non-therapeutic medical research. It is no longer of this time that a citizen must walk around in his pocket with these permissions or refusals, as with the non-reanimation declaration. Citizens want to be able to upload these permissions or refusals into a register or central to their electronic patient file, so that they cannot be lost. If necessary and desired, the GP can then issue a verification as to whether someone is willing to do so. Citizens want to be able to record whether or not they consent to this. To the extent that this citizen is already known, it is already possible that the willing person may issue a written authorisation. However, this is a road with a great deal of legal uncertainty. If the written agent is out of sight and others are not familiar with the written authorisation issued, the person concerned is still at risk of being investigated against him or her. It is a private-law agreement between two parties and does not, in principle, have any effect on third parties. If this relationship comes to an end, for example because a legal representative is appointed by the court, such an authorisation will not have any effect. Citizens already state to the general practitioner or notary that they want euthanasia on them as soon as they become incompetent. One can also think of signed CPR statements, which people even have around their necks. In practice, then, their wish is not respected. This would apply equally to this bill. Minister, through the chairman, is this settled right now? I'd like to hear your opinion on this. How could it be better arranged to respect the wishes of the person concerned? Then there is the final part: compliance with the protocol and with laws and regulations. The IGZ report of May 2016 on the abuses that took place in the GGZ institution Noord-Holland-Noord in 2015 shows that things are not always going well. This was indeed an investigation involving alleged will-successful persons. However, there was some discussion as to whether they were will-familiar because, contrary to the protocol, also included psychiatric patients who had psychosis were used as subjects. In the IGZ report of May 2016, the inspection concluded that the institution failed as a performer and performer to ensure the quality and performance of medical scientific research. The inspection found shortcomings in the presence and compliance with the procedures, in the training of persons involved in the conduct of the study, in compliance with the protocol, and in the allocation of responsibilities and functions. What lessons has the Minister learned for the future from this IGZ study and what measures have been taken to prevent deviations from the agreed medical-ethical protocol? Does the Minister pay particular attention to the primary responsibility of the institution? I'd like the Minister's response. Finally, the next question. Is there room for patient organisations to involve them in the drafting of the review framework and the research protocols, based on their specific expertise? I look forward to the Minister's answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u10	I have two questions on this too. My first question concerns the first part of Mrs Wezel's contribution. Her input went a bit in the same direction as the input of D66, namely who monitors when the patient suffers unnecessarily or too much. We have a doctor who, according to the WGBO, has to monitor that, right? If, under this bill, you doubt whether the doctor in the Netherlands can do that, is Mrs Wezel in favour of introducing a third person to all doctor-patient relationships throughout the Netherlands who will monitor suffering, because the doctor apparently has a misconception about that, as D66 calls it? My second question concerns consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u11	Can I answer the first question? Then I come to the final point. Apparently that institution in North Holland didn't go very well. Apparently there was not enough supervision of the doctors. I wonder if the Minister thinks there is a need for supervision and, if so, how this can be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u12	My second question concerns consent or refusal of consent. We have a system for that under the euthanasia law, as you yourself said. You can do that with the GP. Researchers know how to find their way to the GP. If you agreed that that researcher should also go to the GP to see if there's permission, you could put that in protocols, and that seems to me to be settled. Is it proportionate to set up a whole register for this relatively small group, which is of a totally different nature from that of the donor discussion, which costs millions and involves a great deal of extra bureaucracy? Premiums are already on the high side. How does the SP view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u13	My question to the Minister is whether it is well-organised at all if people want to see no medical scientific research on them, for example, if they want euthanasia or if they do not want to be resuscitated. If people have that wish and they have laid it down, for example, in a written authorization or in the GP, it is important that that wish is also respected. Now that does not always happen in practice. That is why I am asking the Minister how better it can be done to ensure that this wish is respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u14	Finally, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u15	Between the nose and the lips: I welcome the support of the SP for the electronic patient file, for the central inspection of a file. That's a new sound from the SP. I now understand from Mrs Wezel's answer that she is not in favour of a central register, but of a clear agreement that the investigator will go to the general practitioner with the question whether the patient's file states that there is consent or that there is abstinence. Well, that reassures me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u16	I did not put it that way, but I am concerned that it should be properly arranged, so that the desire of the person concerned is respected. I look forward to the Minister's response to the question of how this can be better arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u17	The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has indicated his desire to suspend for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u18	The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. With the bill being discussed today, we did not go over a night of ice, because in 2007 the CCMO already indicated that it had to reject certain forms of scientific research with children because of the strict requirements in the law, while it considered that it was important research that was ethically admissible. In particular, it was a medical and scientific non-therapeutic study which did not benefit the participating children themselves. Under the current law, when such a type of investigation involves a little more than negligible risks and even if the objections are more than minimal, the investigation should be rejected, whereas such research can be approved in a number of other European countries. I would like to point out that it concerns very serious diseases. This is about Duchenne's disease, about Alzheimer's or about cancer in children. That's the kind of investigation we're talking about here. The CCMO indicated that this is to the detriment of the progress of medicine for children in the Netherlands. On the basis of that signal, my predecessor set up the Doek Commission. The Doek Committee described in its report that it is aware of the physical and psychological vulnerability of children participating in scientific research, but that it should also look at the possibilities of children. The child is not only caring and protective, but it is also a person with views and feelings who should be given a place in the consideration of medical research. Just like the CCMO, the Doek Committee saw as a bottleneck the legal requirement that medical scientific research with children, where the participating children do not benefit directly from it, should minimise the risks associated with it and minimise objections. This legal requirement was considered too restrictive by the committee. In view of the progress of medicine for, for example, the mentally handicapped or demented persons, it is important to remove obstacles which cannot be justified as far as possible. Especially in the field of degenerative diseases of the nervous system, such as Alzheimer's disease, the amount of scientific research is increasing rapidly. Of course, we also hope that at some point healing or at least a better quality of life can be achieved for these people. Several professional associations, such as the Dutch Association for Clinical Geriatrics, the Dutch Association of Doctors for Intelligent Disability, the Dutch Association for Paediatrics, the Dutch Association for Intensive Care, the National Association of Intensive Wizards, the Association of Parents, Children and Cancer and the Duchenne Parent Project, have therefore called for the law to be amended. I will not go over it completely, because then it will take a very long time, but it is known that the Doek Committee has proposed to move from a 'no, unless' to a 'yes, if', but that this has not been incorporated into this law. So we don't go to a "yes, if." It's still "no, unless." No, it can't, unless there are enough arguments to do so. So it's not like we're making a radical change with this change of law. However, we have changed the definitions. We have not simply changed these definitions; we have adapted them to the definitions adopted at European level. Since we were a bit searching for the definitions, it has been waiting for some time. We had already defined ourselves when Europe came up with one. Since both definitions are so close and the European network is slightly wider, we have opted for the European definition. That way there is already unity of definition. Otherwise, we would have had to change our definition at a later date on the basis of the European regulation. The point is that medicines but also other treatments that we are already using and using in paediatrics are currently only being tested on adults. We're actually doing that very amateurish. If we prescribe the same medicines to a child as to an adult, we break the pill in half or in four, even though it is not at all said that the treatment is good for a child. It is sometimes very necessary, especially when it comes to very serious matters, to be able to do just a little more at that point. Of course, this must be done under strict conditions, but I will come back to that in a moment. We are looking for the right balance between all these different interests. The protection of these vulnerable people is of course very important, but for children with a particular disease it is also very important that we continue to seek a way to treat them better. There has been no mention of age, so I will not elaborate on that. We just joined the WGBO at that point. That seems to me to be the most obvious thing in this case. Moreover, I think that we will find these points in the answer. Mrs Bredenoord asked if there was a paradigm shift from "no, unless" to "yes, if." The Doek Commission proposed this, but the cabinet did not accept it. For vulnerable groups, therefore, the starting point remains "no, unless." Only if special conditions and additional guarantees are met can they participate in the investigation. Does the adaptation mean that children may be included in studies when they themselves will not benefit from them, because they were already used to being exposed to high risks and heavy loads during their standard treatment? The adaptation does not mean that you can simply carry out incriminating acts in the context of medical research, because patients are already used to doing so. There remains a balance of interest, with the burden of the investigation being offset against its usefulness. It is stipulated that if the children concerned do not benefit from the study, the load may be minimal compared to the standard treatment at most. The way the load is experienced is partly determined by previous experiences in the context of treatments and diagnostics. That was also mentioned in the report of the Doek Committee. The new criterion offers room to take that into account, but there is still a ceiling. The Medical-Ethical Review Committee will therefore determine whether the risk is acceptable. Does palliative care at the end of life fall under standard treatment? The term "standard treatment" can indeed be understood as palliative care. In the proportionality assessment, the review committee considers whether the additional risks and taxes arising from the transactions are acceptable in the context of the investigation. It is stipulated that if the children concerned do not benefit from the study, the load may be minimal compared to the standard treatment at most. This standard treatment can therefore also be palliative care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u20	I would like to thank the Minister very much for this clarification. The Minister states that palliative care is covered by standard treatment. This could mean that if the standard treatment is first a chemotherapy with more risk and load, the inclusion of a child or an adult willless person in a subsequent study could be associated with more risk and load than further along the route if there are only palliative possibilities left. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u21	You always have to see it in relation to the situation of the child or the incompetent adult. Those two are aligned in this law. So that is separate from the treatment they may have received before. If the standard treatment no longer works and a phase 1 study is being conducted on a new medicine, are risks such as hair loss, nausea and vomiting, the risk of serious infections and damage to the heart acceptable? Let's point out that in children with cancer it is heartbreaking when there are no more treatment options. This applies to all concerned, both for the child, his parents and his family and for the treatment team. Of course, it has to be ensured that from that emotion it is too easy to think that this new possibility, even though it has not yet been tested, is a new straw. That was rightly pointed out in my view. This applies both to the patient and his family as well as to the patients. It is precisely for this reason that the independent Medical-Ethical Review Committee is considering whether the investigation can be carried out in a responsible manner and whether the patient and his family are properly informed. A METC has the incredibly important task of ensuring that this happens in advance, so that the patient can make an informed choice himself. That is the basis of this law. Not only pediatricians, but also the children themselves and their parents sought publicity when this discussion took place in the Lower House. They have indicated that they can and want to make this assessment themselves. There are children who say: I am 11, but I think this should be possible. In order to protect these children, we must, of course, beware of unnecessary and excessive risks. This is done when drawing up the Protocol, when reviewing it and during its implementation. For the CCMO, researchers, patients and their families, the phase 1 study gave the signal that our legislation is too obstructive. The current law includes a standard that is much more limited than the one that has been widely used worldwide for a long time, which prevented research carried out in other countries from taking place here. Both the Biomedicine Convention, the United States legislation, the current European pharmaceutical research directive and the new regulation set a broader standard than the current law. The CCMO, doctors and patients have pointed this out. The Doek Committee has also shown that enlargement is possible in a responsible manner. This extension is not found by considering research more therapeutic if it is not therapeutic and therefore cannot benefit the subject. That remains the case in this proposal. To what extent is there a chance of individual benefit in Phase I and Phase II studies? That depends on the design of the investigation, and that will have to be assessed on a case-by-case basis by the Committee of Inquiry. I was asked whether I could respond to the statement that we are asking for great sacrifices from such sick children for the purposes of others and society as a whole. In the opinion of the Doek Committee and beyond, it became clear which interests should be considered in the legislative proposal. These include, in particular, the integrity of underage subjects or adult subjects who are incompetent. That is why all these interests have been so carefully placed in this legislative proposal and must be carefully weighed before consent can be given. In what way can METC ensure that children who experience the study as more than minimally burdensome are prevented from being included in a study? And if a METC can't do that on its own, who's gonna see to it? The Medical-Ethical Review Committees test the research protocol before the study starts. The study protocol describes inclusion and exclusion criteria. The review committee will also review the protocol for the presence and content of procedures that describe how researchers ensure that children who are anxious, for example, are not included. This aspect will be addressed in the CCMO review framework. This Directive also updates the existing Code of Conduct against minors. It states that it is necessary to discuss with the parents what the investigative acts are. An assessment is also made of the expected response of the individual child. For example, the question can be discussed as to what should be understood as the child's resistance, as well as the question of when. The protocol should specify how this code of conduct is to be applied to the specific category of children participating in the study. A METC can see to that. Once the study protocol has been approved, the researcher, in conversation with parents and children, will assess whether it is justified for a particular child to be involved in the study. It is therefore necessary to discuss with the parents what should be seen as resistance. The inspection shall be the body responsible for ensuring that the investigation is carried out in accordance with the law. Mrs Bredenoord talked about innovations that can be recoupled. In its annual report, the CCMO returns on the basis of a thematic approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u22	I am not entirely clear what the Minister means by a feedback into a thematic approach. Can she explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u23	The CCMO shall draw up an annual report. It gives an idea of what has happened over the past year. It says, for example, where remarkable things have been reported. The CCMO will bring this back in a thematic way through the annual report. In a year, the CCMO can pay special attention to a particular theme on the basis of signals. The innovations are then thematically linked back to me and thus to the public domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u24	Are those signals coming from the IGZ or can they do so in other ways?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u25	The CCMO itself links back what it has found, what it has noticed and what it considers important. The inspection is the parent of the entire system. For example, on GGZ Noord-Holland-Noord, the inspection is the regulator that acts and not the CCMO. The CCMO is operating in an overarching manner. She picks up signals, turns things off and implements innovations. She discusses this with the various Medical-Ethical Review Committees and this is also linked back to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u26	Are you still considering monitoring the load during a study?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u27	Yes. Mrs Bredenoord asked whether the new law has sufficient protection mechanisms. Are there ways to prevent the relationship between doctor, parents and child from giving insufficient or inadequate informed consent? It is extremely important to stress that good information is essential. This information is therefore enshrined not only in this law, but in all our legislation. Especially when children are involved, education is of great importance. That's what this law says. The educational material is evaluated by the Medical-Ethical Review Committee. An independent test will be carried out by the Medical-Ethical Review Committee on the comprehensibility of information. To further support this, I have contributed financially to the development of a multidisciplinary directive on the involvement of children in medical research. This includes the way children are approached and the role parents should play. In addition, the study protocol should describe how the child and the parents are approached. It is important that not the treating physician is involved in the information but the investigator. The METC will see to this. Then there is the definition of risks and permanent control. Do I see opportunities to formulate additional conditions and do I see opportunities to encourage initiatives to do so? The Medical-Ethical Review Committee will take into account how the risks and the load are monitored in the assessment of the study. Sometimes it will not be necessary to monitor this permanently, such as once-in-a-lifetime tests where a tube of blood is taken. In the case of a study in which a muscle biopsy is taken, this is different. Then the Medical-Ethical Review Committee will ensure that there is an adequate plan for checking the objections and risks. This procedure should be laid down in the investigation protocol reviewed by the Medical-Ethical Review Committee. Mrs Bredenoord said that innovative things could also be implemented in this context, such as an app that would allow much better monitoring at child level. I think that's a very valuable suggestion. I will explicitly include that suggestion in my conversation with the CCMO. It is precisely because we have new technologies in which the child can be involved in another way that we need to check whether these conditions are sufficiently met. I admit that I will explicitly bring this type of method to the attention of those involved. How do I feel about looking back with parents and patients on recruitment, information and research to involve that knowledge in another study? How's this experienced? That is an important subject. So far, the impressions and experiences of the children themselves are often lacking in the discussion of the Medical-Ethical Review Committees, researchers and practitioners. A research in this field funded by ZonMw has recently been completed. This set out the risks and loads as experienced by the children themselves. A questionnaire has also been developed that can be used for future research to measure load during the study. This could be an app. We are in the process of tackling this evaluation better by means of a questionnaire, but I can imagine that we will be doing a little more innovative work there too. That has been highlighted and, as far as that is not the case, I will make sure that it does. What is the status of the working group? Do I expect any further amendments to the current proposal to the directive? The draft directive went into public consultation in June. The results were sent to the working group last week. The input must be processed after which the directive will be adopted by the Brussels expert group representing all Member States, including the Netherlands. It is expected that this will be in spring 2017. Since the directive is merely an effect of the regulation adopted, I do not expect it to lead to amendment of this law. What is the status of the review framework that would be developed by the CCMO? The development of the review framework is in a final stage. There has recently been a consultation phase in which the Dutch Association for Paediatrics and Patient Associations have also been consulted. The input is now being processed. The review framework will be finalised before the end of this year. Mrs Wezel asked why the current criterion should be extended. I think the number of investigations is wrong. If you don't think something's right, you won't file the investigation. We see that in recent years research into Alzheimer's disease and Duchenne has accelerated. This has actually been the case since 2007. It is not for nothing that the association of Duchenne patients and also cancer patients insist that there is more possibility in the Netherlands in this area. The Doek Committee's report has described that the current legislation is too strict. I've just indicated how it's usually arranged abroad. In particular, Phase I studies in patients who do not benefit themselves appear to be a problem because there is still a lot of off-label use of medicines in children. A concrete example is the research in children with Duchenne. This applies to children as well as to unqualified adults. That is why this extension is necessary and I would like to introduce it to the Chamber. What is the old criterion of negligible minimum objection and what is the new criterion compared to standard treatment? What's the difference? The difference is that there is not a fixed criterion for everyone, but that it is related to what a child is used to in the standard treatment. If a child is totally unaccustomed to blood sampling, the blood sampling experience is different than when regular blood is taken from a child and an additional tube is needed. The old criterion was governed by strict rules. In principle, no more than one blood sample was possible. This is relative to the new criterion. That means you're looking at it in the context of the investigation. Kids who are more used to it. What can you think about? Then you can think of multiple blood samples instead of one, as is the case now. Or MRI scans or a muscle biopsy. These are examples you should look at when treating children. What is the severity of the disease? What is the importance of the investigation? That is all relative and must therefore be weighed. There is, however, a ceiling in the law. That ceiling's clear. It's not unique either. We have aligned it with the European definition: only a minimum risk and a minimum load compared to standard treatment. Can I explain what it means that the treatment becomes more profound and riskier through research? When considering whether the operations carried out in the course of the investigation are minimal compared to the standard treatment, the actions carried out in the course of the treatment shall be considered. If these last actions are considered minimal, they can be used in the standard treatment group. This does not automatically mean that the treatment becomes more profound and riskier. If you're already taking blood and taking extra blood, it hasn't gotten any more risky. Why is the general importance of progress in medicine in the Netherlands greater than the importance of the personal physical integrity of the willless, as laid down in Article 11 of the Constitution, especially since the research does not benefit the person concerned himself? Unfortunately, the development of new medicines and treatment methods cannot take place without the involvement of subjects, sometimes also incompetent subjects. If there is an alternative, it will not be approved. If the investigation can also be done in another way, it is not approved. However, if there is no other way to do it, it will be checked whether it is heavy enough and, if so, how the treatment is experienced by the person relative to the normal treatment and whether this treatment is acceptable. Of course, there is also a need for a replacement authorisation, but I will come back to that. Physical integrity is guaranteed by the replacement consent. For example, physical integrity is taken into account and protected in a constitutional and careful manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u28	If someone is very sick, the standard treatment is heavy. If you sell a heavier treatment in the context of research against the general interest, then the importance of health care in the Netherlands and in the world is always more important than the importance of a very seriously ill person. Shouldn't you protect someone who's very sick from themselves? I'm thinking about kids or demented people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u29	That's what happens with this law. It's a "no, unless" law. It's not a "yes, if" law. "No, unless" means: it may not, unless there are compelling arguments. They are all clearly described in the law. The general importance of medicine in the world is far too abstract. Of course, this is what we have been approached to do: if I normally give more tubes of blood, why shouldn't I do so now if I help the sick children of the future? It must be a minimum risk and a minimum tax. It's not like anything's allowed. The kids don't suddenly become test subjects. The risk is minimal and also the tax is minimal. Get an MRI. Why shouldn't I? It is not about the general interest of world peace. No, these babies have a disease and they see around them what that disease means, even for their surroundings. They wonder why they should not be subject to this minimum tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u30	If a civilian has a very sick mother who is severely demented, what does it mean? The minister's talking about a few tubes of blood, but where does it end? Suppose someone is severely demented, where does the intervention stop? What's the upper limit? The average citizen must also understand. I understand that the Minister says "minimum taxation" and the like, but that is so abstract.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u31	For me, there is no rule to give, because it concerns very different diseases. In one disease a minimum load and a minimum risk means an MRI scan and in the other it is really about taking blood or a muscle biopsy. It's also very diverse. That is why it is also laid down at European level, and we want it to be laid down now in Dutch law, that it really must be a minimum risk and also a minimum tax. We have set up Medical-Ethical Review Committees that assess whether, and also assume the responsibility that this is also translated into the research. Have we included in the law that should be stopped if it turns out that the child is not responding as thought. Have we included in the law all the guarantees that the risk and the tax is not more than minimal? If something is a big risk or if there is a huge increase in the chances of something, it is not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u32	Can a citizen then have access to the protocol if he is legally represented by, for example, his mother or father, so that he can see what constitutes the minimum or what has been agreed on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u33	In any case, the person concerned, for example the person representing the willless or the person representing the child, must be properly informed by the doctor and investigators about what it means, what the minimum burden is and what the minimum risks are. At any time before, during, at the beginning and at the end of the game, this person can say: boys, we don't participate anymore; we're a bit disappointed anyway, so we're out of the game. The person himself or in this case the legal representative decides whether to participate and when to stop. In fact, when children signal that it is apparently not a minimum tax for them, but more than that, it is stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u34	May I ask the Minister how much longer she thinks she needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u35	I still have a few answers, Mr. Chairman. It's incredibly good and important that people think about what they want in advance. That's what you do in all kinds of fields. Especially when a disease like dementia starts to play, in practice I see that the people around me who unfortunately find it hard to understand how much thought is being given to the question: what does this mean for me in the future? Do I have to take care of things? This is happening in a variety of areas. Take the will statements or written permissions. That is what is being discussed in practice, and that makes sense. The law provides for that, too. It is wise to do this in good consultation with the treating doctor and also with the general practitioner. They can document a patient's wishes. The same applies to wishes around the end of life. We have been very busy, together with the KNMG, to prepare and publish the hand-out request for euthanasia in writing. If you want anything in that area, let me know what you want. Record it properly, discuss it with your doctor and update it regularly. It's exactly the same here. It's just here that's important, so the GP knows what you want and it's in your patient file. It's not the same as non-reanimation or organ donation. If you get under a tram and you don't want to be resuscitated, that information is urgently needed. That's why a lot of people wear a badge like that. However, these are processes in which the GP knows that you are going to participate in a study; in your patient's file it is stated whether you have pre-arranged whether you want it or not. It is very important that this type of conversation is conducted with the general practitioner and that they can be recorded. Some people do this to the notary, but this doesn't have to be. People want that, and it's their free choice to do that, but we have the way of the GP. If you want a euthanasia statement or want to arrange certain things for when you are no longer willing, discuss it with the GP. He can advise and discuss dilemmas. That's where you can get a record of everything in the patient's file. Then the research at the ggz in North Holland and the shortcomings found by the IGZ. What lessons have I learned from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u36	The minister says a citizen can discuss this with the GP. The citizen must be aware of the fact that this law exists. A lot of people probably don't know this. Can the Minister promise that there will also be a standard declaration for this law? In the case of euthanasia, the problem is often that people have made a statement to the general practitioner, but that if they become incompetent, they will not be implemented. Or people have a non-reanimation statement, but no execution is given. I think that people would like to be sure that it does not happen and that it will also be implemented if this is recorded by the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u37	Of course, you have to implement a declaration of will. Precisely because these are pathways that are longer and not acute, it is a very natural way to get this recorded in the electronic patient file with the general practitioner and to start talking to the general practitioner. In response to the question of whether patients can register that they do not want to, I would point out that patients often do not know how to find their way to a register. When I see how much we invest in advertising for the organ donation register and what efforts it takes to maintain the register, I think that a register is not the way for this small group. I do agree that attention should be paid to the changes in this legislation. If this legislation has been adopted and enters into force, for example, in consultation with the National Family Doctors Association, a circular can be drawn up in which the general practitioners are made aware of the amendment of the law. The question could then be asked as to whether they would like to bring this up as a topic of discussion among the patients concerned, for example patients with dementia diagnosis. I can do that or anything else if you have a more creative thought. I think it's the way to record it with the doctor who knows the patient, know what's going on and have the conversation about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u38	If someone's just been told he's demented, it's a question of whether he's still willing. You'll get that back later. Can people actively record this in their electronic patient files, can they upload it or tick it as is now provided for in the Donor Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u39	It can indeed be included in the file. There is no government-defined standard file that everyone has to use in the same way in the same system. We discussed this extensively in this Chamber a few weeks ago. However, the doctor may already include a euthanasia statement or other statements in the dossier. This declaration may also form part of it. The point is how people know this. I think that we should draw the attention of general practitioners to this through the National Family Doctors Association and that we should look further at how we can draw people's attention to this. That's very difficult, I know from experience. Despite a huge amount of information, sometimes in commercials that have been broadcast for years, many people do not know that their own risk does not apply to the general practitioner. It is very difficult for people to take information if they think it is irrelevant to them. That is why I believe that the way along the GP is the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mr. Chairman. May I ask one last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u41	Should we now or can we do so in the second term? If it's a short question, we can do it now, but we'd like to do it briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u42	Does the Minister think it's okay for permissions now? Do people now have sufficient opportunities to define their will and to ensure that it is implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u43	Yes, I do. I didn't find that in euthanasia with willons. That's why I made a hand-out with the doctors' associations. I got a lot of letters in which people wrote: I took care of everything but when the time comes, my doctor doesn't. You also have no right to euthanasia. We have answered all these questions and then made a hand-out. I believe that we have taken care of it very carefully here too, especially since we have also arranged for you to stop when you see during the investigation that someone who has agreed to it is anxious or is really suffering from it. It's not like once given is always given. No, that needs to be closely monitored by the investigator, the doctor and the family. You can always intervene. Then the ggz in North Holland. The inspection has carried out research into the conduct of medical and scientific research in an institution. A number of shortcomings have been identified in this study. Thus, inclusion has not taken place in accordance with the protocol by including non-ambulant patients. In addition, there were shortcomings in, inter alia, the presence and compliance with the procedures, so that the guidance for good clinical practice was not fully complied with. Since these offences are punishable, the case has been referred to the Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, the inspection shall monitor the progress of the implementation of improvement actions already deployed by the institution. The inspection has therefore taken the necessary action towards the institutions. Another question is whether patient organisations have room for input into the review framework and research protocols. Patient organisations have been consulted on the establishment of the CCMO's review framework. About the research protocols: the researcher can also involve patient organisations in the establishment of a protocol. Furthermore, it has been asked whether I can give a concrete example of a type of investigation made possible by legislative amendment. I have already answered that question and I have given a number of examples. I think I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you. We now come to the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers, especially since she gave them immediately after a suspension of just a few minutes. I have already said in the first term that my group is in principle in favour of extending the possibilities of non-therapeutic medical research with children and willons. Our main argument is that exclusion from these groups means that they cannot benefit from the fruits of scientific research. However, where in non-therapeutic studies the benefits of research come to future patients, the burden and risks are entirely passed on to minors or otherwise willingly qualified subjects. This is an inherent and inevitable ethical dilemma, and it is good that we are discussing it in plenary today. Research into new treatments is extremely important. My group stresses that those involved and we must be aware that great sacrifices are being made of such sick children and uneducated adults for the purposes of medicine, future patients and society as a whole, without having been able to give their own consent. Good safeguards and checks-and-balances in all steps of the research process are crucial in order to implement such an extension ethically. The Minister is optimistic about these good guarantees. On such a sensitive subject, I would like to call for extra attention to be paid to ingredients in order to strengthen those safeguards. Think of reducing therapeutic misconception, monitoring of stress, encouraging trials to be organised in such a way that the subject could benefit from it, in particular phase 1 and phase 2 trials, and a learning practice, so that we can learn from parents, patients, the doctor-researcher, METCs and all other stakeholders. The Minister places a great deal of trust and responsibility with METC. That is a proper compliment for the intensive work that Members and secretariats of METCs do, but I would also like to draw attention to the downside. METCs are already heavily taxed. The turnaround time to assess protocols is very long. My group therefore has concerns as to whether we can add a little more each time. Therefore, we would like to call for continuous attention to be paid to the support of METCs in order to carry out such tasks. Furthermore, a METC or the CCMO is no longer involved once the study has been approved. Therefore, it is important that there is also monitoring during the study, so if it is actually out of the hands of METC. I thank the Minister for the commitment to further stimulate innovative ways of involving children and adults more effectively and also to monitor taxation. You could monitor the load during the study, for example by filling in an additional question on the ABR form; that is the form that researchers all have to fill out before it goes to the METC. They all contain questions that are asked by default. You could ask whether the study is of such a nature that the load should be monitored online or via apps. For example, this could be linked back to either the independent doctor or the METC. That would be an extension of what the METC is doing right now. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Would the Minister like to give a definition of "standard treatment"? Is there such a uniform definition yet? It concerns the definition that we are going to work with in the future situation. I will advise my group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal, but on behalf of my group I urge the Minister to continue his efforts to strengthen medical-ethical governance for non-therapeutic medical-scientific research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. The Minister explained the need to broaden the scope of this scientific research. I have heard her say that people who participate in this investigation, the legal representative together with the minor child or the willless person, can determine: this is the border, I do not want any more. They can express that and then the investigation stops. I have heard the Minister say that people who would like to arrange this can consult with the general practitioner and record that they do not, for example, want or do not want scientific research on them, which they do not directly benefit from. That's important. I ask the Minister whether it is possible for the protocols to establish that the researchers are seeking agreement with the GP to check that this has been established, so that the researcher knows it. I ask the Minister not only through the GP association, but also on the Ministry's website, for example, to indicate that this law will be passed and that people can discuss this with their GP. Can she promise? I ask the Minister to pay attention to the will of people. This means that they can record what happens to them and not to them in an investigation or treatment and that this is also being honored. I thank the Minister for her explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u47	I understand the Minister can answer the questions immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input. We have shared concerns about a law like this and try to settle it well with each other. That is the intention and we do not differ. It is about very sick children, about very sick people and about research that is of no benefit to them themselves. So you want to take care of that very thoroughly and properly. There must be constant attention to the work of the Medical-Ethical Review Committees. Quality is monitored through the supervision of the CCMO. The CCMO consults twice a year with the presidents of the Medical-Ethical Review Committees. Signals on the workload can be discussed there. I have not received such signals from the CMO, but we must always keep our finger on the pulse. Following this signal from a member of the Medical-Ethical Review Committee, I will raise this myself in the consultation with the CCMO. In doing so, I will also reduce the experience and monitoring of the tax, as I promised in the first term. We must make use of innovative means. You can ask children very complicated questions, but a smiley face you understand pretty quickly. We need to see how we can do this carefully. I would like to point out that there is also a doctor with the child. That doctor is guarding that child and also guarding that everything is done in the right way. Mrs Bredenoord asked if you could monitor the tax during the study with an additional question on the form in advance. I'll see if we can change that form. If there's research going on with your child or your mother, you can say at any time: this isn't what I thought, we're quitting. I think it's the best route to transfer with and record with the GP. I will look into whether the protocol provides enough for that to be checked in the file. If that is not the case, I will ask whether it can be included in the protocol. Protocols are from the field and not from the Minister, but this seems to me to be an important aspect that nobody is opposed to. I will check that out and, if necessary, actively introduce it. We will not only provide information about this law through the LHV, but also on the website: when does it enter, what does it mean and what can you do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u49	The Minister has not yet responded to my question as to what definition of "standard treatment" we are going to work with under this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u50	There's no single definition. In medical practice, the standard treatment is established. This definition, which the profession itself defines, plays a very important role in everything we do in the care sector. That is the treatment we measure it to: the treatment that is common to the current state of science, as it is and is given. That's what it is, but in better Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u51	So in that sense it is a constantly evolving, dynamic concept. Will this European working group come up with a fixed definition as far as the Minister knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u52	One says no, the other says yes. Whether they come with it or not, in almost all the debates we are talking about what is a standard treatment. That's not up to the Ministry, thank God. The profession determines: this is, according to the latest state of science, the treatment to which a person is entitled. That's what this is measured by. That could be different today than tomorrow and then yesterday. Suppose people have a lot of trouble swallowing a medicine, because they have difficulty swallowing. If there's a new treatment, a drink that people can swallow very easily, that's the new standard treatment. If it's okay, it gets better and different all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u53	Thank you for the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u54	I had another question, namely whether there is room for involving patient organisations in the drafting of the review framework and the research protocols of a specific expertise. I missed the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u55	In that sense, I have stated that the researchers who can always involve patient organisations and that the review committees should consider whether the aspects that are important for the patient or the family are sufficiently taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-3.u56	I thank the Minister and come to the conclusion of the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote on the bill on Tuesday 25 October.
