ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u1	This is special because, at least in my memory, I have been a Member of this Chamber for 14 and a half years now, and we have not had such a debate with ourselves before. We had a debate once with the GRECO committee, but then there was a committee. So there's not necessarily a committee or a minister you can talk to right now. You're talking to each other. I hope, however, that everyone will be able to exercise sufficient discipline so that we can have an orderly debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u2	My speaking time now runs to four minutes, but that will be fine, I suppose. Madam President. We honour our nickname 'chambre de réflexion' by debating, on the first day of the new year, a state committee to be set up, which, within the framework of what my group calls'major maintenance', will carry out an investigation into the future stability of the parliamentary system, which we ourselves are part of. As is well known, the initiative for this debate came from my party colleague and until recently colleague of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Loek Hermans. During the General Political Reviews of October 2014, he already encouraged the discussion about a state committee to be set up for constitutional rethinking. During these General Political Reviews, the government has indicated its intention to facilitate such a state committee. On the agenda of the Seniors' College of 28 October 2014 was the question of what subjects the political groups would like to raise for the task of such a state committee to be set up. Many rounds of discussion at the College of Seniors meeting have further resulted in the holding of a public debate so that all groups can express their views on this issue. On the basis of the results of this debate, the assessment can then be made of whether a state committee should be set up and, if so, what task such a state committee would be assigned to. It is a good thing that we are speaking about this in public today, if only because it is recorded in the official Acts. First of all, the why and why of such a state committee to be set up. The Dutch parliamentary system was designed in the nineteenth century, the time when parliamentarians took a long time to travel to The Hague and the provision of information to citizens was organised in a different way. The Internet didn't exist yet, let alone social media was part of everyday life. Life and the world have changed. That's an open door, I realize, but it's still good to establish it. We live in an age of large-scale power shifts, at global, regional and national level. This includes mass migration flows, increasing uncertainty and a society that is changing at an ever-accelerating pace. The proper handling of continuous change is therefore a necessary skill to secure our society for the future as well. In this context, it is therefore wise to review the functioning of our parliamentary system in good time. In addition, that is almost a cliché, but therefore no less relevant we live in a society that is increasingly digitized. We are not only dependent on technology, we live with technology. Our iPhones tell us where we are, how we feel and what happens in the world. With our iPhones we have access to social media, which provides us with a platform to respond immediately to events around us and to influence public opinion. That too is a reality, a changing reality, which affects our parliamentary system. The dynamics of a parliamentary system of 200 years ago are certainly different from those of today. First of all, the existing parliamentary system is operating well at the moment. That does not alter the fact that it is wise, and perhaps even very important, to check whether this will continue to be the case in the future. It is difficult to predict the future, but one thing we know for sure: the future is changing. I see Mr De Graaf on the interrupting microphone. Of course he may ask me a question, but that is what the President is about. You must stand there, on the rear microphone, I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u3	I was just wondering if I wanted to get into the picture or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u4	Mr De Graaf, you have the floor for your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u5	I was wondering if I should look at Mrs Duthler's iPhone to see how she feels or ask her directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u6	It's right there in the benches.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u7	I am concerned with the term 'parliamentary system'. Mrs Duthler uses that term all the time. In fact, she means, I have the impression, the state and quality of our parliamentary democracy. In fact, I would like to propose that this term should be used, because 'Parliamentary system' means, first and foremost, the relationship between the Chambers of Government and the functioning of the rule of confidence, and I have the impression that this debate is not just about that, but is much wider. Is it not wise to use the term 'parliamentary democracy' in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u8	Further on in my speech, I would like to comment on what my group means by 'Parliamentary system'. I suggest that I discuss this further in that place. I will give Mr De Graaf a very specific look when the time comes. Then he can see if he can agree to that. Madam President. In my speech, I had stuck to the point that it is wise to check whether this will continue to be the case in the future. A further reflection on the functioning of the parliamentary system in the context of a changed and changing society is therefore justified in the context of what my group calls the'major maintenance'. Before I go into the question which should be submitted to a possible state committee to be set up, I first outline a number of trends, perspectives and developments. At the same time, I am coloring that changed and changing society and I am setting a direction for sub-questions that could be involved in an investigation. A first trend is the involvement of citizens. The Dutch citizen aspires to more direct involvement in policy and politics. This is demonstrated, among other things, by the 2013 Legitimity Monitor Democratic Board and the recent SCP report More democracy, less politics? from 2015. The speed and interest in the consultative referendum on the Association Treaty with Ukraine is significant in this context. Here too, the influence of social media should not be underestimated. The question is whether and when it is necessary that direct involvement is also translated into direct control. How does this relate to representative democracy? What opportunities do the digital tools at national level offer for increasing citizen involvement? In other European Parliaments, such as the United Kingdom, Belgium, Iceland and Finland, the role of digital instruments is part of the ongoing debate on the future-proofness of the parliamentary system. In these countries, too, consideration is being given to how representative democracy could be strengthened in the context of increasing digital citizen involvement. It is important that politicians find a new balance between sufficient space for independent political judgment on the one hand and increasingly articulate opinions and preferences of groups of citizens through the new digital media on the other. I come to a second trend, the electoral volatility. The number of voters who change parties in elections has increased considerably. This alone results in political fragmentation and a rapid change of MPs. In the Lower House, the average parliamentary experience is only four years. That's been about ten years. There are currently only five people in the Lower House for more than six years. That does something to the collective memory of parliament. Also due to electoral volatility and therefore political fragmentation, the chances of the composition of the First Chamber and that of the Second Chamber can differ greatly from each one. What do these developments in the context of Parliament mean for their functioning? Are these changes likely to lead to bottlenecks in the functioning of the parliamentary system and, if so, to solutions? I come to a third trend, Europe. More and more social issues are being addressed at European level. These include refugee issues, financial issues and questions of labour law or competition law. What is the consequence of the increased importance of European decision-making for the parliamentary task and its shaping of the two Chambers of the States General? After all, European decision-making is processed within a parliamentary system designed for and tailored to national legislation. A fourth trend, decentralisation. What does the large decentralisation of important tasks to other authorities mean for the functioning of the parliamentary system? Think of the 3D operation carried out last year, whereby care tasks first carried out by the central or provincial government were transferred to municipalities. In this context, the idea of a participatory society is certainly of great importance. At local level we see different experiments with different forms of citizen involvement. The trends outlined here lead to the main question that, according to my group, should be put to the State Committee: is the Dutch parliamentary system sufficiently future-proof? First of all, I should like to look at the framework conditions. A necessary precondition is that the pillars of the democratic rule of law, namely the legality and legitimacy of public administration and authority, the trias politicians and fundamental rights, are untouchable and testament to the results. The parliamentary system is defined as a system in which ministers are accountable to and have the confidence of a majority in parliament in a government. It is a system that is not self-contained, but embedded in the constitutional system based on separation of powers, legality and legitimacy, and protection of fundamental rights. It is a system that is largely enshrined in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u9	Moreover, the most basic part of it is not in the Constitution, namely the rule of trust. Mrs Duthler's own wording already shows that the term 'Parliamentary system' is limited and does not really apply entirely to the debate she, and I too, wants to have. She said earlier that the parliamentary system is already 200 years old. Well, no, the parliamentary system is less than 200 years old, because the trust rule is less than 200 years old. In other words, the question is whether we should not talk about parliamentary democracy or political democracy. This is broader and concerns precisely the subjects mentioned by Mrs Duthler. The involvement of citizens, the digitisation of society, participatory democracy and Europe are not just about the relationship between the Chamber and the government, but much more about the relationship between citizens and democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u10	The legitimacy of the parliamentary system, of the parliament and of the government, and its support for citizens, are, of course, largely determined by the way citizens feel about it, by the citizen involvement I mentioned earlier. That is, of course, an important aspect that we need to discuss. I have not for nothing mentioned citizen involvement as one of the trends to be taken into account in the analysis that will have to be made by a state committee to be set up. That is a point of view that needs to be taken into account. If the citizens no longer feel involved in parliament, it will do something with the support, not only for politicians, for politics, but also for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u11	Last time I'm gonna talk about the term, Mr. Chairman. Suppose Mrs Duthler, for example, would like to involve the electoral system of the House of Representatives in this debate, which I think is very sensible. That is part of political democracy, but it is not part of the parliamentary system in a formal sense. Hence my request to broaden the concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u12	Maybe it's a good thing I'm going to continue my argument. I will certainly take up the subjects mentioned by Mr De Graaf. I assume that what we are discussing today will also be spelled out by the State Commission when it looks at its possible question that we are proposing to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u13	My question to Mrs Duthler is how broad she really wants to make this debate. I have always understood our discussions in this house in such a way that the point of contact was the functioning of the Chambers, especially the position of the First Chamber. I will also say a few words about the way in which the Supreme Court is elected. However, it raises the question of how broad Mrs Duthler wants to see this task. If we want to involve the electoral system and the democratic system in a broad sense, I think we have a mission as broad as the world and I think we will get nowhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u14	Maybe it's okay if I continue with my speech. I refer to a number of sub-questions which I have derived from my main question. In addition, the Kieswet is discussed and other aspects, such as those mentioned by Mr Graaf. These colours are part of our main question, but also limit the width of the assignment. Mr. Chairman. If it's all right with you, I'll continue my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u15	Please continue your speech, Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u16	As far as the rule of trust is concerned, I also said that the system is largely enshrined in our Constitution. I didn't say everything was laid down in the Constitution. However, that does not mean that it is important to include that point. Invasion angles and developments. Not rarely is the discussion about the State Committee on the position of the Second and, in particular, the Upper House. In the opinion of the VVD Group, this view is far too limited. Rethinking the future stability of our parliamentary system requires not only to be driven from the perspective of state law, but also to look explicitly at the trends I mentioned earlier. They do not necessarily affect the Constitution, but they affect the functioning of Parliament. In this debate, the VVD Group is not explicitly concerned with concrete solutions. It is intended to examine whether a number of trends can affect the functioning of our parliamentary system in such a way as to examine whether this is indeed the case and, if so, in what direction adjustments are necessary. It is a responsibility of Parliament itself to keep the system vital and future-proof. In the context of these trends, developments and perspectives, the VVD Group thinks of the following questions that can be derived from the main question. There are questions about the place and significance of a government agreement and its connection, the need to adapt the Kiest Act and the length of the term of office and the method of selection of elected representatives. Does the legislative process need improvements and, if so, what improvements are possible? What about the advisory function of the Council of State? There are also questions about the powers of the First and Second Chambers, each individually and jointly, and the working methods of the two Chambers: does this need revision in order to optimise parliamentary decision-making? Is it desirable to anchor the main rule of the parliamentary system, the confidence rule, in the Constitution? We can also look at the involvement of citizens, the electorate, in politics, in the parliamentary decision-making process, in the light of the representative democracy we know and the role of the Constitution: what could it play in this? Members of the First and Second Chambers are not only interested in a functioning parliamentary system. They have a particular responsibility for their future sustainability. That is precisely why we must dare to ask ourselves such questions. So far, many individual proposals have been reviewed to adapt the system. They are weighed and assessed separately, but there is no coherent investigation and a proposal. Working for a thorough, integrated analysis of these trends is precisely the added value that we must strive for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u17	The VVD Group wants to ask an impressive list of questions. If it comes to a committee, we could go along with a large number of them. While we are doing a good job: I am missing the question of constitutionalising legislation against the Constitution. After all, we are really dealing with a fundamental question about how we can make our parliamentary system work and parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u18	The constitutional review is laid down in an initiative proposal by Mrs Halsema. This is called different now, I understand. This proposal will naturally come back this way. The constitutional review is an issue that we have not considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u19	If we are to proceed in a fundamental way, we would not want to keep this question off board immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u20	I'm gonna take this for now. I would have stuck to the thorough analysis of these trends and that they should bring the added value that we want. The establishment of a State Committee, after the House of Representatives has also expressed its views on the issues, would therefore be an excellent opportunity to come up with such an in-depth analysis and, if necessary, to discuss an integrated proposal for adjustments. Finally, a few comments on the scope and composition of a state committee. Local authorities, provinces, municipalities and water boards, and public institutions, such as ZBOs and agencies, can be excluded from the scope of the VVD Group. The VVD Group considers it very important in the composition of the State Commission that it consists of prominent former politicians, state law experts, politicians and individuals who have great knowledge of the new media. My group looks forward to the thoughts and views of the other groups in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u21	I have listened to your question. At the heart of this is the question of whether our parliamentary system is future-proof, and in fact the state committee is being asked to answer this question. You have said that the parliamentary system is now functioning well, but that in the light of a number of trends the Chamber should ask itself questions. You're putting the analysis out of this room. That analysis must be carried out by a state committee. The committee must examine trends and, in the light of this, determine what is needed to make the parliamentary system future-proof. What is your own analysis? Why is this necessary? Why is it necessary to make the parliamentary system future-proof? I'm asking for a start of an analysis on your part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u22	I have outlined a number of trends and developments and mentioned them as a reason for my group to start this discussion. We urge a state committee to carry out such an analysis very thoroughly and, if necessary, to come forward with proposals for the adaptation of the parliamentary system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u23	Why are we doing this? What's your answer to that? Why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u24	The world is changing. Look at the influence of social media; I didn't call that for nothing. The relationship of citizens with politics, parliament and government has become quite different. She's gonna be different from what we know now. One thing we know for sure: the world around us is changing. If we know this, it is good to check whether the parliamentary system as we now know and cherish it, our parliamentary democracy, is sufficiently future-proof to cope with the changes that are coming, both the present and the new ones. Are those core values gonna stand up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u25	Finally, Mr Kuiper, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u26	What we discussed at the time at the General Reviews in this house was not about the kind of changes you are referring to. By the way, you have mentioned more changes and I fully understand them, as we in Europe see in legislation and how we deal with them. Is there now a need for a state commission for this digital relationship with the citizen? Aren't these things we can do ourselves? This is simply the parliamentary method that we can gradually adapt. We're already doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u27	Of course, the trends and developments I have outlined are not on their own. They belong together and must be seen in conjunction. The task of such a state committee is to assess these trends and developments in conjunction with each other and to come up with an integrated proposal. If we were only concerned with the digital media or just the way European decision-making is, of course, that issues that stand alone would be different, but we are concerned with the coherence, the combination and the interaction of all these issues on each other and on our workings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u28	Mr Kuiper's question and Mrs Duthler's answer show a bit of the contradiction that we are likely to get more often in this debate: it must be narrow and focused on the way in which it works or be broad about political democracy. This debate will be held and the outcome will be apparent. Does Mrs Duthler also see the involvement of the Chambers themselves and the political groups in the composition? There are many possibilities for this, but I haven't heard about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u29	I actually mentioned this. When it comes to the composition of a committee, we explicitly opt for former politicians. We do not want parliamentarians who are still in office. We choose to do so because we think it is important that they are Members who know how it works. Parliamentary membership is a separate subject. That's not something you're gonna throw in. You need to know how it works. That is why we believe that there should be former parliamentarians in it. At the moment when they would be sitting parliamentarians, the risk of the butcher going to approve his own meat is being run. We really want to distance ourselves from such a state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u30	Could Mrs Duthler imagine the formation of a committee, whether or not a state committee, and a sounding board from both chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u31	This is about the further development. At the moment when the majority of this Chamber today says that there should be such a state committee, the sequel is that there will be talk with the House of Representatives. We still need to look at how this can be done; this could perhaps be done through the Presidents. Then questions of this kind will also be discussed. I need the analysis first. The question is whether such a state committee is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u32	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u33	Mrs Duthler raised the issue of composition herself. Then she shouldn't have. For me, it is essential to know whether the VVD Group, as initiator of this debate, would have a role to play in both Chambers. If it were not on the committee, then perhaps it would be in the form of a sounding board group. I do not think this is an issue of impact which we will look at once when it is no longer dealt with here. I would like an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u34	I can give a clear answer to the question of whether the VVD Group wants members of these Chambers on the state committee: no, the VVD Group does not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u35	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u36	I gave an alternative and Mrs Duthler did not respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u37	I'll do that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u38	I was not present at the debate on 14 October 2014 when this was triggered. I wasn't a member of this room at the time. I have tried to follow the debate and admire the flexibility of Mr Hermans who had to move along with all the movements of this Chamber in the question. My conclusion is that in those years and a half there has not actually been a real goal. However, a number of problems have been mentioned. Next, you propose that a state committee be set up to analyse the question from this Chamber and from the House of Representatives. This means that the same discussion may also have to be held in the House of Representatives, while we have not yet even come to the beginning of a mandate from this Chamber, as has already been said. Don't you want to avoid that somehow?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u39	That is what this public debate is about. We must come to the conclusion of a task and a question to the state committee. The beauty of a public debate is that we focus our thoughts, exchange our arguments and finally come to something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u40	I very much agree with Mrs Duthler. But when I have listened to her speech, she has, above all, mentioned many new themes and raised questions, without even a beginning of an explanation of things, other than 'the state committee should first take the analysis and then perhaps come up with solutions'. Do I have to understand that Mrs Duthler says: until now we have not been able to make a mission, so that we now leave the request to make such a mission outside these Chambers together with the House of Representatives and ask the State Committee to do it for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u41	The point is that there is a thorough analysis first. We are now setting out the outlines, but making an in-depth analysis is not possible in this debate. It is a question of an in-depth analysis being carried out first by such a state committee, on the basis of which proposals for adjustments may be made. First, that thorough analysis must be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u42	I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld. Members should not blame me, but I have a very nice electronic display in front of me, of which I have to do very "artist" things. For the timing I always pressed a button, after which time started running. Now I have to set how many minutes someone has registered, after which the clock will count back. That's very difficult, but it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u43	Mr. Chairman. I have no doubt that you will soon have fully mastered that complex system. Only recently, in a special United States General Assembly, we celebrated the 200th anniversary of our two-chamber system. During that meeting, Prime Minister Rutte praised the two-chamber system and expressed his pride in the way the parliamentary system functions in our country. How different it sounded a year ago from his fellow party members, the two then group chairmen of the VVD. After 199 years, the group chairman in the Lower House questioned the right to exist of the Upper House. His fellow party colleague in the Eerste Kamer effectively copied this move with the plan to set up a state committee to examine in detail the functioning of the parliamentary system. The background was that according to the VVD there are too many elections and voters change sides too quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u44	I think it is necessary to make it clear that this link between the statements in the press and the current discussion has not been made. I would like to make that point clear, because this is going to be part of the Acts. Again, this is expressly not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u45	We point out something else, but it is of course a good thing that Mrs Duthler is saying this from her point of view. The then party chairmen of the VVD in the two Chambers were not the first. Since the existence of the two-chamber system, there has been regular discussion about the system: whether there should be a two-chamber system and, if so, what should be the position of that "second" chamber; the first. If we look at the countries around us alone or at our own recent history, then the number of variations is quite inexhaustible. Ideas on the design of the two-chamber system and possible changes in it have over time been reflected in reports from state committees, national conventions, government proposals, initiative proposals, parliamentary notes and, of course, science. So no new discussion. The reason was very new: the lack of a majority in favour of the current government coalition in this House. In this contribution I would like to raise three issues. First of all, I would like to talk about the necessity and desirability of a state committee. Secondly, I would like to talk about the position and functioning of the First Chamber and the position of the CDA in the debate on state law and, finally, I would like to address the real problem with regard to the functioning of our democratic system. According to the CDA Group, setting up a new state committee does not add anything to the studies carried out and the available models. As far as the CDA is concerned, we are perfectly capable of holding a debate on possible changes to our parliamentary system on the basis of the analyses and information already available and on the basis of views already expressed by the political groups. It is therefore not a question of generating even more opportunities; it is a question of political will. For a state committee with members who can guarantee party political commitment, as D66 suggested, the CDA feels nothing. That is not a state committee, but rather an early cabinet information, but one with all the parties at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u46	I would not dare to question the great wisdom of the CDA Group and of the speaker in particular. But how does the CDA group already know that a state committee to be set up, of which we do not even know the composition and task, cannot add anything new to what we already know? When was the last time we had a debate here on the functioning of our parliamentary democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u47	I think that's very good questions. I am glad that the kick-off of my contribution raises these questions. I wanted to do that myself in a rhetorical sense. The answer comes in the course of the argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u48	But my question to Mrs Van Bijsterveld was when we had the last debate on parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u49	I don't remember. I did not just say that it is not good to have a debate on this. I have said that it is very good to have a debate, but that we can do so on the basis of the information already available and the views expressed by various groups in this House. The essence of my contribution is that we do not need to set up a state committee first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u50	I do not blame Mrs Van Bijsterveld for not knowing that answer, because it was in 2000. Then we discussed with the ministers Klaas de Vries and Bram Peper a note on the functioning of parliamentary democracy, and in particular on the functioning of the Senate. There has been no debate on this after that, while we have been 16 years. I can imagine, however principled Mrs Van Bijsterveld's party is, that 16 years is a period in which something could have been developed. At the beginning of this debate, therefore, I would like to call for some clemency and some debauchery to be applied and not to say: we said what we thought about it in 2000; we do not come back to it every 16 years. Once every sixteen years, even as a Christian Democrat, you may hold your views against the light and confront others, from which perhaps something beautiful arises.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u51	Thanks again to Mr Kox for his interruption. I have already rejected the proposal for a state committee in my kick-off, which I will try to argue further later. I did not say, and I do not want to say, that we do not consider it useful to have a debate on this issue. Only I think we can do it the way we are here. Mr Schalk said it a little in his interruption: we do not have to take it completely out of ourselves; we can have that debate ourselves. Since it was 16 years ago, I can imagine that at the beginning of that debate we are still making some circular movements. But I don't think that's a bad idea. So I am also taking part in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u52	You may respond to that, but can you be brief, Mr Kox?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u53	No one here will claim that there will be a state committee that says 'this is how it is going to happen' and that this is how it will happen. The state committee is a means of preparing for a final debate, because always when a state committee has reported, it is up to the government and the parliament to talk about it. I think it is a little rigid that the CDA rejects a means in advance, whereas the debate on this issue should take place today. I hope that will gradually make Mrs Van Bijsterveld's contribution a little more flexible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u54	On that point, I must disappoint Mr Kox, because that is our position in this debate. One of the reasons why we reject that state committee is that everything is actually already available in terms of reports, analyses, possible models and possible changes. I think that we, as political groups, are man enough to formulate our own views on the basis of the information we already have. We don't start at zero. All we have to do is look at the results and recommendations of state committees that have not been dealt with. We can look at analyses that we, I don't mean "weekly" but still get in monthly. It seems to me that, on this basis, we can have a debate ourselves and come to an understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u55	Speaking of principle, I have to think about that. A lot of research has been done, but these are all fragmented, fragmented studies that you should still sweep together. This is, of course, a thorough and integrated analysis. I would therefore like to say to the CDA Group: research everything and preserve the good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u56	I think that's a very nice proverb. I would like to join with you wholeheartedly. I think that these investigations have already been carried out to a large extent. Following on from my contribution, I will try to contribute in a modest way to the analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u57	It may be a bit faint, but this is not a Dutch proverb. It's coming from somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u58	That is why I welcome the proverb, but I consider it only partly applicable to the establishment of a new state committee. I come to the second part of my contribution. It's about the position and functioning of the First Chamber. As has been said, the fact that the cabinet no longer has a majority in both chambers is the direct cause for the debate we are having today. Today's debate thus extends at least to the position and functioning of the Upper Chamber. Is that Chamber such an obstacle now? The figures are known: out of the small thousand draft laws submitted to the First Chamber in its previous composition, we have rejected only four government proposals. When such a proposal is rejected, there is simply no support for it, sometimes not within its own coalition. It's a good thing the First Chamber is such a counterweight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u59	I heard Mrs Van Bijsterveld say that the fact that the government has no majority in this Chamber is why we are having this debate. Some people may have found this a problem, perhaps it is also a problem, but I do not think that this is the reason for almost none of the groups taking part in this debate. An opposition party can say: it is very nice that the government has no majority. A coalition party will think otherwise. That is what I think Mrs Duthler said, and that was also called for by this and that outside Parliament. The reason why we are holding this debate is that we want to test the sustainability and sustainability of the system. As long as the opposite is not apparent, I would assume that and not the idea that we are holding this debate simply because the government does not have a majority here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u60	I certainly do not want to say that this is the only reason, but, as I have said, it has been the reason, the kick-off for this debate. As one of the previous speakers said, there is now a year and a half between the first problem and now. Of course, the debate on the debate has developed further. I hope to discuss this further in my contribution later. My contribution has to be seen as a kind of reverse pyramid; I start with the concrete and I want to let that flow into a broader question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u61	I would like to emphasise once again that the reason for this debate is really to look at the future stability of the system. The link that is being made is something I would like to strongly combat, because that is really not the case. We are concerned with the stability of the future, as Mr Kox put it so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u62	I'd very much like to assume that's true. I do not want to question that, but I also see it a bit in historical chronological perspective. That is why I found it useful to mention the beginning. I had stuck to the observation that it is a good thing that the First Chamber can counter that. The commitment of the House of Representatives to the coalition agreement is so strong that the House of Representatives itself does not take that responsibility or can sometimes take it very hard. It has to be said that the present cabinet has increased the risk of rejection of proposals in the First Chamber by a somewhat ill-thought-out cabinet formation, in our view. As we all know, the Supreme Court can ensure that minor defects in the legislation can be repaired by means of a novelle. Of course, the First Chamber is also very important for the interpretation of the law, by asking questions and debating with the government. Innocences that have remained in the Lower House can thus be clarified in the Upper Chamber. I would like to ask the other groups what they think the real problem is with regard to the Upper House. Is that the way of election? Is it perhaps the way the Supreme Court carries out the duties? Is it the lack of a majority for the coalition? I already know the answer from the VVD Group, but I am also asking the other groups. If the latter is the case, I would like to stress that equal majorities in the First and Second Chambers are not by definition achieved by any other way of choosing. For example, a reduction in the six-year term of office system with a change in half of Members of Parliament after three years would not have made any difference in the current circumstances. Abolition of the First Chamber, as some political groups may advocate, also does not prevent varying majorities in the Second Chamber. I come to the next point. What is the status of the CDA in the broader discussion on state-law change? I say to Mr Kox that I am now clearly in the process of broadening the debate from the First Chamber. In view of the above, does the CDA Group wish to avoid the discussion on the functioning of the parliamentary system? The answer to that question is no. The CDA certainly does not want to say that there are no improvements possible, but it is of the opinion that setting up a state committee and tinkering with the techniques of the relationship between the Second and the First Chamber will not help us. The CDA does not want to keep everything at all costs. Any proposed amendment that arises will be assessed on its merits, like any proposal that passes through this Chamber. The CDA itself has ideas about possible changes, but they are on a different level. They are not so much concerned with the relationship between the Chambers themselves as with the relationship between the government and the citizen. They are not so much concerned with the parliamentary system in the narrow sense of using Mr De Graaf's terms as with the system of political democracy. For example, the possibility for citizens to influence the composition of the parliament can be extended by the introduction of a mixed electoral system. However, we can also think of an existing instrument such as the citizens' initiative, which enables people to raise issues with the city council, provincial states or the Chambers. That could, as it were, be rediscovered, activated and revived.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u63	I think it is right that Mrs Van Bijsterveld should broaden the issue to political democracy and not just talk about the parliamentary system in a narrow sense. At the same time, however, it says beforehand that it does not want a state committee. Mrs Van Bijsterveld just said that a state committee might not help, but what does she really have against a state committee? What is her fundamental objection to the establishment of a state committee, especially if it were to be given a broad mandate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u64	A practical objection, not a fundamental objection, would be to create a system, namely a state committee, which we consider to be unnecessary in advance. Our thesis is, why would you do it? Moreover, it should be borne in mind that, if agreement were to be reached on the assignment in the First Chamber, it would take a long time before there was an opinion and we could debate it. So if there are jumping points, we do wiser not to wait for them but to take matters into our own hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u65	Mrs Van Bijsterveld refers to the mixed electoral system. I know the CDA has ideas about that. At least, more in the scientific sense, because when the point comes to shove, I never hear her. Other parties have those ideas, too. There are two ways to try to put that together. We can just debate: someone comes up with a proposal, and if the rest of us disagree, we'll settle it and we'll be done. We can also set up a state committee to look at what is acceptable and propose a new electoral system based on sound analysis. Why would the CDA want to shoot that in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u66	I believe that new initiatives such as these can be brought forward in two ways. This is often done through proposals from the Lower House. According to my observation, there has been an increase in these own-initiative proposals lately. They are often supported, without a state committee on which they are based. In addition, there will be elections again in March 2017. So there's a cabinet formation ahead of us. This offers opportunities for innovation. I am really wondering whether a state committee will be able to come up with proposals by then and whether this has been debated in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u67	With Mrs Van Bijsterveld's reasoning and saying that this state committee is only delaying, can I assume that there are proposals from her party and proposals from the House of Representatives about, for example, a change in the electoral system? I'd like to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u68	I didn't say that. I have said that we ourselves have some ideas about what could be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u69	It's a little helping and getting used to the fact that we can't blame anyone or hold them responsible: we have to do it with each other. That could be a good thing, too. Mrs Bijsterveld believes that her group has good arguments for not choosing a state committee. That is possible, but isn't one of the advantages of that method that we shouldn't be making decisions here and now before the Lower House elections? 'Cause then we'll sort of know what's in there and what's coming out. I will mention in my contribution a number of issues which I believe such a committee can examine. I can just imagine that in the end there is no broad majority in favour of this, but that a state committee is still able to ask: the SP Group thought in one direction, the VVD Group in the other and the D66 Group in another, so could this or that be a working mode for everyone? So a committee like that can help us. I have also said before that it would be nice if she could surprise us too, so that committee is starting to reconcile different views, with proposals that are acceptable to everyone. In this case, we should not want to rush. For this to happen, good work really needs time. One thing is certain: this discussion is not over until we have another cabinet. That is why we do not have to make a problem of it. The present cabinet is not present in this debate. This is about the future of our parliamentary democracy. So I would once again ask Mrs Van Bijsterveld to look at it from a different angle. That does not need to be done now: we also have a second deadline for this. It would be nice if we could discuss a little bit about all the positions and perhaps come to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u70	I think it's a very good idea to reconsider. I am also very pleased that Mr Kox says he does not want to rush. That is a good thing, because there are also proposals from the 2006 National Convention. As far as I know, we haven't done so much with it nine years after that. There has also been another state committee, which had to put forward proposals for renewal in a slightly smaller area, which surprised us at that time. I do not think that much has happened to it. The same applies to predecessors. If Mr Kox wants to put it this far behind schedule, of course he can, but if we, as politicians, think that something is going on, perhaps, with all the differences of opinion that there will be, we should try to look at where we stand in a debate like this. So, as the previous speaker said, we should not say: it is really about everything and we should put it outside a state committee for a moment. If I have listened carefully, a state committee does not even have to come up with solutions, but must first analyse trends. That is possible, but we do not find that very attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u71	I agree with Mrs Van Bijsterveld that there must be good reasons for setting up a state committee, because then you are going to use quite an instrument. She herself comes up with examples that are very far-reaching. In relation to the mode of choice, she referred to a dual system, but I know that there have also been proposals from her party to introduce a threshold. That would do something with our system of proportional representation. You'll end up in a discussion about constitutional change. Does the CDA, for example, intend to set a threshold for voting?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u72	Mr Kuiper did not hear me on that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u73	No, and that is why I am asking Mrs Van Bijsterveld now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u74	Of course, all the proposals put forward by us and others will not be a clear majority in advance. I do not think that this is the aim of this debate at first either. Mr Kox has just said that it is 16 years since we last debated this issue. At that time, the times and composition of the Chamber were different. This is a new situation. Let us taste each other's kidneys: where are we in this debate? I personally find it a little easy, like my group, to say that it should be about the whole parliamentary system, about trends and whether or not possible solutions, and that the state committee should do so first. I would find it interesting to have a slightly more direct debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u75	I was also trying to do that right away and taste the kidneys. Here are words such as "large maintenance" and "reviewing the system again." I know that Mrs Van Bijsterveld's party has once said that the electoral threshold should be raised. My group has been very surprised because we know the CDA as a party that has always looked at minorities. That would be a goodbye to the proportional system. What analysis is underneath that for Mrs Van Bijsterveld? What's the problem? Is she in favour of that? I'd like to taste her kidneys at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u76	In this debate, I would like to mention, for example, a number of things the CDA thinks of as possible areas of renewal. I didn't get a list from the party. So I am not going to mention exhaustively all the proposals for constitutional renewal. He has not heard me mention the point that Mr Kuiper has just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u77	But then there are ideas on points of renewal of the parliamentary system. If I listen carefully to Mrs Van Bijsterveld, the interview I mentioned earlier, according to the CDA Group, is therefore also on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u78	I spoke not so much about the parliamentary system in a narrow sense but more about what Mr De Graaf called 'political democracy', i.e. the relationship between government and citizens. The thrust of my speech on this point is that we do not necessarily want to keep to the old. We certainly want to think about proposals and have some ideas about them ourselves. I mentioned a few. All the other proposals that come along will of course be judged on their merits. I just mentioned a few points and I want to go a little further with my list. I mentioned the mixed electoral system. The establishment of our political system should be in line with the opportunities and desires of people at this time to exert influence and be connected with politics. The ideas I mentioned contribute to this. I think I understood from the words of the previous speaker when she spoke about the digital media that she was referring to this too. I would also like to mention the power of the citizens and the idea that they want to have a more direct influence on their own living environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u79	Mrs Duthler, on this point, I would like to give Mrs Van Bijsterveld the opportunity to continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u80	I note that the CDA Group and several groups in this Chamber, including mine, agree on a number of trends. I am thinking, for example, of the involvement of citizens in politics. My group also wants to look not only at the First and Second Chambers but at the very broad parliamentary system. I am so curious to hear why I am about to listen carefully to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's openings for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u81	I think it's a good idea for you to listen carefully. As parliamentarians, we must also take action in our own right. One could think of ways in which national parliaments can make more effective use of the opportunities they have to actually influence Brussels policy under the subsidiarity mechanisms. I would also like to mention increasing the democratic embedding and visibility of MEPs. As in the United Kingdom, the CDA is open to a legal right to challenge. If a group of citizens believes that they can organise a public service themselves better and/or cheaper, they have the right to challenge the municipality and come up with their own proposal. For the CDA, the main thing is that the government is there for the citizens and not the other way around. In doing so, the government must stand for values that are vital for the rule of law and democracy. This requires a demonstrable and active integrity policy. In response to Mr Kox, I have just said that my story is a sort of reverse pyramid; I am now coming to the last part of it and I am discussing what we believe to be the real problem. Mrs Duthler has just been challenged by Mr Kuiper to say what the real problem is. I will try from my group to respond to that. So today we are talking about constitutional reforms. That is a theme that can always be discussed by the CDA and which I personally have a special interest in, but on a day like today it is also necessary to dig a little deeper and to reflect on why. I began my speech by saying that there was no problem in parliamentary democracy in a narrower sense. The real problem is not that the First Chamber adopts too many or too few legislative proposals, it is not that the First Chamber is democratically legitimized in any other way than the Second Chamber and is not that the Coalition does not have a majority in our house. The real problem, I have just mentioned, is the relationship between political government and the electorate. The voice of the people does not seem to be echoed in The Hague. In a way, the Fortuyn revolution has not yet worked out. The 427.939 signatures that the GeenPeil Committee managed to collect in a short time for an advisory referendum on an passed law are a sign on the wall of the "deafness" experienced by the citizens in any case. I will not say that it is so, but they do experience it so well when it comes to the parliament. Despite the fact that the government sometimes talks about a do-democracy, the government sometimes also shows its power, even when the citizens are still speaking out and are in the process of being informed. In this context, I refer to the word 'Orange'. The fact that, on the one hand, citizens are presented with a do-democracy, but on the other hand, they are not able to cope with it or are not given the opportunity to do so, of course, creates incomprehension. Mouthful and often highly-educated citizens want more direct influence on their own living environment and they sometimes do not experience responsiveness in the institutions. Governmental changes may be helpful to provide an answer, but we do not think they are at the heart of the solution to this problem. The solution to the real problem is primarily a matter for the parliament itself, in which the representatives of the people and the political parties have a responsibility. Voters must feel heard by their people's representatives. This starts in the party with the selection of candidates and the composition of an election programme. For both chambers, it is important for the institute and therefore the people who form it to keep themselves relevant and to remain of value to the citizens who serve it, each from its own role and place in the state system. The same applies to the government. At an earlier stage, I will not directly relate to this debate at this time, the VVD, in particular the VVD in the Lower House, expressed its concerns about changing electoral preferences. My group has a good term for this: it is called democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u82	Mr. Chairman. I welcome this debate that we are having today. I don't think it's an unnecessary luxury. I don't think it's unnecessary. I think it's an extremely good time. I am also pleased that it is not a topical and urgent matter but that it is a question of how we can maintain our parliamentary system or, perhaps better said, our parliamentary democracy for the future. Because it's so worth keeping it up. So I disagree very much with the CDA Group's interpretation of this. We are having this debate after this topic was given a prominent role in the 2014 General Reviews. This was mainly because of the group chairman of the VVD, who is following us here to see if we are doing all right in his mind, which I hope, of course. The then chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats then proposed that we examine whether, and if so how, the functioning of our parliamentary system could be improved. Remarkable at that time was the reaction of the Prime Minister in this Chamber, who reminded us that in the coalition agreement there were no intentions for this type of state reform and that it should be much more a debate for us MPs; if First and Second Chamber members could come to a task and fill in the positions, then it seemed appropriate for the Prime Minister to facilitate the setting up of such a state committee. A fine choice, certainly from a Prime Minister whose first cabinet had proposed rather brutally to amputate both chambers for a third part as an expression of a somewhat parliamentary populism. This proposal is now rightly on the brink of history, because parliaments must not be cut short but strengthened. Unfortunately, the proposal on the establishment of a state committee had to wait, because the initiator left this Chamber and the VVD had to find a new spokesman. I thank former colleague Hermans for the initiative and I thank Mrs Duthler for taking over the stick. I am pleased that we can have this debate and I would like to point out from the SP Group what issues could be relevant and interesting for us if we continue this process. The States-General represent the entire Dutch people. It has been in our Constitution since 1814. How the entire Dutch people are represented and what rights are granted to the States-General as representatives of the whole people depends on developments in society. Initially, the monarchs and economic elites of the country made up of those who would belong to the representatives, but now the people make, directly or indirectly, who belong to the representation by means of free elections. At first the representatives were individuals; now they are all members of political parties. In the meantime, the parliament as a representative of the whole people is no longer dependent on the monarch, but is by far the most powerful body in the country. The King 'of course', as he himself publicly said, puts his signature under laws adopted by parliament. In the meantime, government and parliament are increasingly bound by decisions from Brussels. This leads to increasing resentment and doubt among the people, who often do not feel properly represented in the European structure. This calls for new developments to protect and develop democracy. The development of our parliamentary system and our parliamentary democracy has certainly not gone too far. The transition from a one chamber system to a two chamber system took place only at that time under great pressure from the southern part of the country and thanks to the Dutch arithmetic of the ancestor of this king, who managed to turn a clear minority into a majority and thereby gave us a two chamber system. The King's immunity, the King's subjugation to parliament only came in 1848 when the king had looked around and had thought: I prefer to keep my crown and my head; I would like to be in return instead of autocrat democrats. The rule of trust, Mr Thom de Graaf, referred to it a moment ago, which is basic to our parliamentary democracy and our parliamentary system, only came after Willem III nearly risked a war with Prussia because he wanted to sell Luxembourg to the French emperor. The general right to vote was only granted when "revolution" was crowded throughout Europe and the population of the Netherlands was also sulking. There have been quite a few events in history that have helped to develop our parliamentary democracy. Fortunately, major historical events were not always needed to change the position of parliament. We sometimes did it ourselves, working after debates, I say to Mrs Van Bijsterveld, and after advice from third parties. For example, there have been motions that have led the government. That happened for the first time in 1849. The right of inquiry for the First Chamber was introduced in 1887. In 2012 the House of Representatives decided that the King will no longer be involved in the formation of the government. Last year, Parliament approved the introduction of the consultative referendum. This year, this Chamber will decide whether, following the example of the House of Representatives, we will in future only approve EU treaties if two thirds of the majority are in favour in both Chambers. A second reading of the proposals for the introduction of the corrective referendum and the introduction of constitutional review by the courts is imminent. Both proposals have now been adopted by both chambers at first reading. Then there is another discussion about the position of the First Chamber, because two cabinets in a row are now in a minority position. This debate is a result of it and perhaps also a catalyst. The role of the people in our parliamentary democracy has become increasingly important. A step-by-step reduction in the electoral age means both the right to vote and the right to stand as a candidate and, above all, the removal of restrictive provisions relating to the electorate's well-being has greatly increased the number of voters. Poor or rich, everyone has a voice now. That's a big, big, big good. The only problem is that the youth of our country still does not have a voice. That could be a subject to think about. Last spring, the First Chamber agreed to increase the influence of the population on the legislation by introducing the consultative referendum. We will have to deal with the consequences of this in the coming spring. Furthermore, for the first time, we saw the consequences of the possibility of giving digital support to a call to parliament. That too could be investigated. Last year, we rightly and proudly celebrated the 200th anniversary of the States-General. We looked with due pride at our parliamentary past, but the growing alienation between population and parliament and the declining number of political parties show that looking away from reality is not an option. After converting the turnout obligation introduced in 1917 into a voting right in 1970, we are faced with overall declining turnout rates. During the last two parliamentary elections, a quarter of the voters stayed at home. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau noted that there was a decline in the confidence of the population in the States General. Two thirds of our population feel that most people find it difficult to understand national politics. Parliament's declining power over the increasing power of the European Union, especially when it comes to initiating legislation, is a development that we certainly must not overlook. An optimally functioning parliamentary democracy is in everyone's interest. This importance applies not only to the left, to the right or to the centre. It is true of all of us, especially our citizens, especially in times when anti-parliamentaryism seems to be becoming bontons in quite a few circles. Our Parliament likes to talk about everything, but talking about its own functioning. I do not look in the direction of Mrs Van Bijsterveld. Most of us think, like me, that parliamentary democracy is basic to our state system and to our society. Regular research into its functioning and, where necessary, its improvement should be quite normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u83	I am pleased that Mr Kox took a look at me when he talked about the difficulty that people's representatives experience in talking about their own functioning. In my contribution, I meant to kick it off myself. The intention is not so much to spend it. Let us make an attempt ourselves to look critically at one's own functioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u84	If we agree on this, we are already a long way off, but this debate must end differently from the observation that we all support the CDA group and then say: this is it. The debate would then have a very quick end. I think it might be good work, but it'll take time. I agree with Mrs Van Bijsterveld that the results from the past have not always been inspiring. A lot of state committees have been set up. One could say that not all of these committees have come to a successful conclusion, but in the end Parliament has looked at the proposals of the state committees and gave its opinion. That's the way it's supposed to be. State committees do not decide; that is what Parliament should do. In 1967, Staatscommissie-Cals/Donner presented a series of amendments: a partial district system, direct election of a reformer, direct election of the First Chamber and associated with them major restrictions on the senate's powers to increase the primacy of the Second Chamber. Those proposals have all been killed. That is what Parliament has decided. In the year 2000, this Chamber last spoke about our parliamentary system and its functioning. This was done on the basis of a note from former Minister Pepper, who was then defended by our former colleague, Klaas de Vries, in his role as Minister here. This included the possibility of a return right and the role of the Senate in a constitutional revision. Those proposals did not make it either. The situation was even sadder: those notes were not even discussed in the House of Representatives. However, I do not think that we, as parliamentarians, should say: because in the past not all the proposals of state committees have been accepted, we should refrain from doing so and we will not use the means of the state committee anymore. I think that's a little too pessimistic. I think it's time for new opportunities. When I spoke about the last time we discussed our parliamentary democracy and our parliamentary system in this Chamber, I referred to the institute. The last time we discussed this in this Chamber was in 2011. It is funny that a number of participants in that debate are here. Henk ten Hoeve and Hans Engels participated in that debate. Roel Kuiper was also present. I was allowed to say something. Our former colleagues Arjan Vliegenthart and Ronald Van Raak wrote about this in a book that is still one of the better products of both writers, although they may think differently, because after all, we sold them to other cremia in this country. However, the book is worth reading. It has already shown that there is a broad exchange of views. Then it is still looking for something that we did in that debate to find out where we can find each other. At least in the last 15 years there has been an increasing volatility of voters. The causes are not clear, nor are the consequences. There was a time when three parties in our country together served on the basis of the votes cast on them. Oerlemans spoke in 1919 about the one-party state in the Netherlands. In 1991, CDA, VVD and PvdA still accounted for a majority of 55 out of 75 votes in this Chamber. Now they have to do it with 33 out of 75 votes. In dealing with legislative proposals in the House of Representatives, we are now trying to make agreements on how we should vote here. An interesting figure, which would also be worth analyzing. In addition to the coalition agreement, we also have to deal with sub-agreements that are concluded on the other side, in the hope that the government on this side of the parliament will obtain a majority. This sometimes goes well from the government's point of view, for example with regard to study funding and the Tax Plan. Sometimes things are not as good from the government's point of view, for example in limiting the free choice of doctors and, shortly before the past Christmas holidays, the Electricity and Gas Act. The good news is that more than nine out of ten Dutch people still think that democracy is the best form of government and that seven out of ten Dutch people think that democracy in our country is working properly. The less good news is that confidence in representative democracy is gradually decreasing. Most people are now more confident in the Social and Cultural Planning Office, plumbers, car mechanics and contractors than in ministers, parliamentarians and political parties. Two thirds of the population would like to have more influence on decision-making, but about the same part does not seem to have any influence on decision-making. Most confidence exists in people with the highest education and income levels. People with low or middle education and lower incomes are much more sceptical. They are still the majority of the population. If the Constitution states that the States-General represent the Dutch people as a whole, then these research data should give us reason to examine whether, and if so, how our parliamentary democracy can be seriously improved so that we can increase confidence in it. We believe that a state committee could and should consider whether a two-chamber system, as we have had in the last 200 years, is still of this age or whether such a structure is future-proof. In 1848, Minister Donker Curtius stated that our two-chamber system would henceforth be based on the idea that the Second Chamber would establish the good and the First Chamber could prevent evil. That is why the Second Chamber had rights that the First Chamber lacked, such as the right of initiative and the right of amendment. The First Chamber, on the other hand, had an absolute right of veto. Whoever studies history, I'm a fan of "Torbecke" sees that this file part of Thorbecke's house was based not so much on logic, but mainly on opportunity. You had to do something: everyone found something about the parliamentary system. Back then, too. Eventually, this construction came out. A hundred years after Thorbecke, Minister Oud mentioned the two-chamber system as another plant of foreign soil that has never been able to take root properly. Others have said all that. Despite the lack of logic of the two-chamber system, it is a fact that its survival has never been threatened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u85	I keep extremely good memories of the exchange of views that we had in this house and it has been knocked down in that book. You will soon find that my contribution is entirely consistent with this. However, I am a little surprised, because the tone of the discussion was that the First Chamber developed extremely well in the 20th century. Mr Kox now raises all kinds of objections from the nineteenth century, which we all know, but which are somewhat outdated. It's a bit archaic to come from the nineteenth century with objections. I believe that in the debate Mr Kox or his colleague, Mr Vliegenthart, expressed his opinion on the positive contribution of the First Chamber to our parliamentary system. Now he's gonna shoot it again. Too bad. Where is Mr. Kox?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u86	The disadvantage for Mr Kuiper is that he does not know what is in my contribution. It says that there were always reasons to maintain the two-chamber system, even though in theory it was more suited to a large and innovative country than to a small unitary state. Especially in recent decades, the continuation of the two-chamber system is based on the idea that it is useful to have, alongside a political parliament, where the delusion of the day can play an important role, a more reflective First Chamber, where a complete legislative proposal can be reviewed. The existence of the Senate alone forces the government and the House of Representatives to keep an eye on the feasibility and enforcement of their legislative proposals, as well as on the relationship of legislation with what is enshrined in the Constitution and in international law. If the First Chamber was perhaps ever an exotic, in the words of Minister Oud, then it is well established and the Senate can boast of a series of relevant discussions and decisions. I'm still as positive as I was back then about the First Chamber, but that doesn't prevent me from thinking about how it should be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u87	Thank you for adding this to Mr Kox's speech. The relevant question then is whether he thinks that a state commission should be asked whether the two-chamber system as such should be re-examined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u88	Yes, because that means that after 1848 and the not too logical construction of Donker Curtius we would say that we are proud of what we have had and that it has worked well, but that we must move forward. We have also become part of the European Union. We now have to look at the situation, and I would like to mention a lot of things that I had incorporated in my speech, in which we have devolved a lot of tasks to local authorities. We have also transferred a lot to Brussels. Is it perhaps wise, in this situation, not to remove one of the two Chambers, now I come back to what I said in 2011 but to raise both Chambers to one Chamber of the States General, as is the case in Scandinavia? I think it's worth investigating. The Scandinavian countries have a great name in terms of the functioning of democratic systems. I don't need to take over from what's been invented in the North, but I'd like to take a look at it. It is precisely because we dare to be satisfied with what we have achieved that we must take the courage to consider whether, in the new situation with the European Union and with more powerful municipalities, it might be good to maintain one Chamber instead of two Chambers of the States General, both of which are doing useful work, but often conflicting a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u89	I have listened carefully to Mrs Duthler and noted that this is about the future stability of the parliamentary system as it is. If Mr Kox's question is added, I think it will be extremely complicated to find support for the mandate to the State Commission. At least they'd have lost me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u90	I'm just a simple MP. Mr Kuiper is much more learned than I am. However, if we set up a state committee, it should see if this is perhaps a development that could be applied. After all, about half of Europe has a two-chamber system. The other half has a one-room system. There are advantages and disadvantages to it. I am not like Mrs Van Bijsterveld, who says: as I think, it is guaranteed to be good. However, I would like to see it examined. Nor can I imagine that state law teachers in the Netherlands are not asking this question. It will be the first question, as was also said in the presentation of the Yearbook of Parliamentary History by several speakers. This is the first question: what kind of system and what kind of parliamentary democracy do you want? Then you can talk about the effects. Or the outcome would be that we are going to do what I have just proposed, I would not bet €100 on that. And I'm at peace with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u91	I'm just trying to figure out what's going on now. I heard Mr Kox say that it would be good to see if a two-chamber system is still of this time. Then I thought, "What's that?" I then heard Mr Kox mention the same trends as I mentioned earlier in my speech, such as Europe and citizen involvement. At the same time, he indicated that the SP Group was positive about the functioning of the Upper Chamber. I believe that this debate should not be about solutions, but about future stability. At the same time, I was wondering whether we would not throw away the baby with the bathwater if we were already saying that the two-chamber system may not be of this time. That's an assumption we shouldn't really consider if you want it to be a pure investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u92	The advantage is that I wrote everything down. I didn't say the two-chamber system isn't of this time. I said we should look into that. The fact is that we have had 200 years and, on balance, we cannot say that the two-chamber system has been a major disaster and the worst that has happened to this country. On the contrary, I said that nine out of ten inhabitants of the Netherlands believe that democracy is the best form of government. This is partly due to the parliamentary system and to parliamentary democracy. I'm very happy about that. You hear some yelling these days, but I'm really glad it is. So I have no reason to distance myself from what has happened. However, a self-conscious parliament must dare to say that it wants to move forward and ask itself what it needs to do. If Mrs Duthler on the street states that she is a member of the First Chamber, she will probably get the same reaction as I do: interesting. Then you see people thinking: Even if you give me $100, I wouldn't know what you're doing there, it'll cost a lot of money, but go ahead if you're happy with it. It is not easy for many voters, many citizens, to understand what our parliamentary democracy is like. That's always been a problem, but if you don't get something fully explained, that might be a reason to see if it's better, or if it can be clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u93	We are meeting on the question of whether the present parliamentary system is sufficiently future-proof. We also agree on the trends and developments that we both note. I think that is a very good observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u94	And we agreed that, should it not be so, if there were no points of stability in the future, adjustments should be possible. This would be one of the things we need to investigate. I have been saying it for a long time, but if you read the two books about our parliamentary system that have recently been published, including the 2015 Yearbook of Parliamentary History, but also the other book, about 200 years of State General, you will see that everywhere at least the question is mentioned: What is the future? Should we continue with the two-chamber system, or should we do something else? Asking the question is far from answering it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u95	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u96	Mr Kox just said that we do not need a state committee because we already know in advance what is good. If he means that we as a group have ideas from our political convictions about what is good and what can be done better on the basis of all available information, then he is indeed right. I suspect, however, that Mr Kox will not escape from formulating a political view at some point on the basis of information available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u97	That is certainly true, but I say to Mrs Van Bijsterveld and the other colleagues that I am quite open in this debate. I hope that we dare to take another step and that we dare to look critically at what it is and how it can be done. I do not put any options on the table in the sense of: if this will not be the outcome of that later study, I will cancel my membership of this Chamber. I don't think about that. I do think we should have the courage to do what we tell others to do all the time, namely look at yourself and analyse whether it can be done better, for once. I can tell Mrs Van Bijsterveld's group that there is some fear of cold water: let us not look at it, because nothing good will come out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u98	I'm looking for some more sharpness. I can go along very well with Mr Kox's reasoning that you should look open to what you would like. He then comes up with a one-room system as if it were a starting point for the discussion or the committee's investigation. As far as we're concerned, that could be a final conclusion based on more scenarios that you're looking at. I would like to ask Mr Kox to reflect on this if you put a one-room system as a starting point for a committee, because you overlook other solutions than perhaps, without me rejecting that solution as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u99	It is not a starting point for us, but it is the question that needs to be answered first. How do you see the layout of the States General in the future? That question needs to be answered. It is also mentioned in recent literature. You have to answer that question. Is the answer to that: 'If we weigh everything, but better a two-chamber system than a one-chamber system', then that does not mean that the discussion cannot go on with that. I think you should also see if, in addition to using the cannon of the First Chamber, namely the right of veto, we can perhaps get some lighter armament, so that we could more easily correct legislation without having to shoot it off. My group was not unhappy with what happened here shortly before Christmas. We made a decision at the time, but it would have been a chic solution if we had been able to tell the House of Representatives and the Government that there were parts of the legislation that the First Chamber would rather not have in it. Maybe we should have marched. That's something that can be investigated. I'm not so bad for changing the election of this Chamber, but it could be a possibility. Some point out that this could improve the relationship between Second and First Chambers. So you can also look at the way this Chamber is elected. There is much open to my group. We believe that the parliamentary system, the parliamentary democracy, is so valuable that we must do everything we can to ensure that it is still valuable in 20 years' time and that not those who have indicated that it is nothing with Parliament, but prevail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u100	This answer leads us in the right direction. If the SP Group wants to look at this openly, my follow-up question is: What are the criteria with which we want to look at the committee? If there are results later, there must also be some kind of reference framework on the basis of which you can say: this is a model that fits and that is a model that does not fit. The summation of different forms of choosing the Chamber and the identification of different forms of systems and targets is based on a certain idea of what you would like to achieve with that solution. I would then like to hear more clearly what the criteria that the SP would like to send to the committee, in whatever form, are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u101	I have said before, I say again, I would not mind at all if I were surprised by the state committee and if I hear suggestions that I think are: here is something from the VVD, or something from GroenLinks or from the SP. It is not exactly what we all have in mind beforehand, but it could just improve parliamentary democracy. We are now discussing the referendum on Ukraine. Some people think: "Oh, is it such a good idea to turn in those signatures digitally?" In any case, it is an opportunity to involve voters more quickly. All that sort of thing needs to be investigated. My group will not say: If these are not the results, then it is not good. The result must be that we can say by a broad majority: if we try to do so, our parliamentary democracy may work much better or at least as well as it has already functioned. That's the criterion. That is not for the benefit of one party or another, it is not for the benefit of the left or the right. It's for the benefit of our people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u102	Mr Lintmeijer is still very brief, because I am looking at the clock. When I see how many speakers we have left, we won't be ready by 24:00 tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u103	Thank you for the answer to my invitation to go even sharper and to look at the frame of reference. We need to get to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u104	I have two points which I will try to put briefly. I do hear discrepancies between the first speaker, Mrs Duthler, and Mr Kox. I've been trying to make some notes. Mrs Duthler began by saying, interrupted by Mr De Graaf, that by 'parliamentary system' we mean 'parliamentary democracy' and that the pillars are underneath. Mr Kox immediately called into question parliamentary democracy or the parliamentary system and almost the pillars. The question is whether that is not the problem of the last year and a half. Mrs Van Bijsterveld is perfectly capable of defending herself, but Mr Kox has pointed out a few times in her direction. Is it not also true that Mr Kox actually thinks that there should be a state committee? Or can this debate also lead to Mr Kox saying: perhaps we should take an intermediate step?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u105	I thanked Mrs Duthler for taking over the Loek Hermans stick. I think she has given a worthy introduction to the debate. That does not mean, however, that we must be for or against Mrs Duthler. We're talking. There's some discomfort, but I like elements from her speech. I don't like other elements. This will also be the case in reverse. If you have so many different ideas that are interesting in themselves, then you cannot solve them immediately in a political debate. That needs to be looked at by people who know it. I see Mr Engels getting a little excited again, but I think that this should be looked at by people who know it. They may say to me: Mr Kox, if you move to a single chamber system, have you taken into account that this and this and this are the consequences? Maybe I'll say, having heard everything, I'm willing to go back on this. That's the structure of the state committee. For example, we have used it in the past when there are issues that require an answer but which cannot be resolved in a direct political debate. Then you ask for advice from people who know it. I cannot imagine that a solid politician like one of the SGPs does not think that is a decent method.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u106	Thank you for that last compliment. The question is whether that should be the state committee. Couldn't the Council of State help us with all these complex issues? I'm gonna suggest that myself. Anyway, we'll talk about that later. My second question is: are you sure that there should and will be a state committee? Or is it possible that this debate will lead to an intermediate step?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u107	Mrs Van Bijsterveld said 'we just don't want it', but I'm going to listen with interest to the contribution of the SGP. If there are other arguments than those put forward by Mrs Van Bijsterveld, I would like to listen to them. I think, however, that the state committee is a reasonable means of achieving this. I am already telling Mrs Duthler that I agree with what Thom de Graaf said. I, too, would not like to have active politicians in the state committee. I do think that there should be a sounding board of politicians, so that a state committee does not a priori come up with something that is very interesting, but has no chance of success. My position in this debate is: such a state committee is a very useful means, not because I proposed it or because Loek Hermans once proposed it or because Mrs Duthler is proposing it now, but because we have done it in the past. The Apostle Paul is already looking around the corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u108	I saw Mr Engels brighten up again when you talked about parliamentary involvement in the state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u109	I thought he was brightening up when I was talking about the Apostle Paul.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u110	No, that's when I saw others cheer up. At this point in the debate, it might be useful to point out that it would be odd that those who would like a state committee and put forward a proposal to that effect could not themselves have views on certain parts of the parliamentary system or on parliamentary democracy. I have many views on this and these are based on arguments and facts. The essence of the state committee is that if it is prepared to look at the various elements in conjunction with each other and come up with concrete proposals, we are prepared not to say in advance: we have taken a position in the past and so we will never return to our steps again. I think it would be wise to say that now in the debate, because otherwise I will also be beaten in my own contribution with 'you have already chosen positions'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u111	With the same open mind, my group has entered into this debate. I really mean that. If we all knew, we would not have to set up a state committee. We already know quite a lot, I say to Mrs Van Bijsterveld, but we need to look at it in conjunction with each other for the sake of future stability. I am still willing to let myself be surprised by what a state committee can make of that. I have already dealt with most of it, but I would like to mention a few things that a state committee should look at in the opinion of my group. The position of our Parliament has changed because we have been given the European Union over us, where more than 50% of our legislation is reportedly being initiated. It sometimes gives an uncomfortable feeling that in two chambers we look very carefully at legislation that has actually been devised elsewhere. I do not know how to solve that, but a state committee should certainly look at it and perhaps come up with good ideas. Recently we have transferred quite a lot of power to the municipality. That gives us a different relationship, and we sometimes notice that this wrings. The municipalities have to do it now, but if anything happens, we'll say it's not right. I think a state committee should look into that. How have the formal relations between the European Union, the national government, the province and the municipality become? We should consider whether this should have any consequences. It is true that we have our parliamentary democracy, which has a lot to decide on. But we have put a very large part of it out of parliamentary democracy by marketing it and self-destructing it. We have investigated the consequences here. I myself think that such a state committee should look at that too. If you add all that together, sixteen years after we had the last debate here, even longer after Cals/Donner was finally finished, I do not think it is weird to say that this issue is not acute, but extremely relevant. Let Parliament look at its own functioning, not as a navel stare, but to see how we can secure our parliamentary democracy for the future. It is not unknown to you: I am money as an incorrigible optimist. That is what I am doing when it comes to parliamentary democracy, but there are still some clouds in the air, which make me think: parliamentary democracy must not think that it will survive on its own. There really needs to be regular maintenance, and if it is necessary large maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u112	Mr. Chairman. My group also welcomes the fact that we are discussing the parliamentary system and our own work. If it did happen 16 years ago for the last time, I know what Mr Kox means. Indeed, it is high time we did this again. However, it is not entirely true, because I have a lively reminder of the debate we have had on the report entitled Connecting? which contained recommendations to our own home. This led to a very interesting debate about our own way of working. It is good that we do this from time to time. This debate on a possible rethink of our parliamentary system has not been born entirely under a favourable spirit. The reason for this is the heat of the struggle for the formation of the Rutte II Cabinet and the need for parliamentary majority voting in this House. We do not need to look back on this, but it is important to remember it in the context of this debate. The House of Representatives took care of the formation of the Cabinet, but at that time it seemed to have forgotten the meaning of the mission always assumed by the King, in which it was asked for fruitful cooperation with the States-General, i.e. the two Chambers of the States-General. When that certainty did not turn out to be there after the formation and majority formation in the First Chamber put the cabinet before a serious problem, for the first time there were critical sounds from the coalition's circle about the place and role of the First Chamber in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u113	I believe that there is excellent fruitful cooperation between the government and both chambers of the States-General. Your group and my group have been able to make an extra contribution to this. You don't actually agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u114	Fortunately, we have a political culture in this country in which fruitful cooperation is always sought by groups in this house and by groups in the house on the other side. You know what I'm talking about. It was always a fixed passage in the order given by the King. That's good, because it shows that the relations in the First Chamber also matter. We debated here in October 2014 the desire that then emerged to create a state committee to examine the functioning of the two-chamber system. That was also a moment when we talked about our house. There was a different response to that at the time, also because the reason seemed to be an echo of a certain malheur about current parliamentary relations. I will leave it at that, but as far as we are concerned, the incident should not be the guiding principle, but an analysis of a broad structural problem identified. Having said that, my group would like to say that, as far as we are concerned, a discussion on our parliamentary system is that the two-chamber system as we have known it for some 200 years now, and in particular the place of our Chamber in it, is not without meaning or ground. Former colleague Hermans has often indicated that outside the First Chamber there is much and often talk about the role and position of the First Chamber, but that we ourselves do so too little. We agree with that. When we talk about our position and our functioning in the world around us, it must be a reason for us to express our own views on it. Our group is therefore not at all confused with proper reflection. We have always been constructive in this regard. The problem is always that there is no clear analysis on the table. The question then is what exactly we need a state committee for. It's unclear, and it's always avenged. The debate is in favour of considering whether such an analysis can be carried out from the outset. The debate so far does not give much clarity. Perhaps the state committee should make such an analysis, in the light of all kinds of social trends, but that is a very open task. The question of whether there should be a state committee is therefore still to be considered. It may be, but it might not be, if, for example, we find ourselves able to improve our own functioning, should that prove necessary. I believe that that alternative should be on the table very clearly today. What can we do for ourselves? The cabinet has declared its willingness to set up the State Commission if the Chamber so requests. I understand that, indeed, it is this Chamber that we are talking about, if this Chamber were to ask for it. It was just asked whether a round would have to be made by the House of Representatives, but that seems very complicated to me. If this Chamber were to ask for it, with a particular question, then I think the cabinet indicated that it would then be prepared to set up a state committee. It's a heavy instrument, though. Opinions of such committees were discussed earlier, but eventually disappeared in the drawer. Moreover, I was also a member of the National Convention, which also made proposals concerning the First Chamber, including the right to return. That report was at least not discussed in this Chamber, as I know, at least it has been discussed here, but in connection with a few other things. Recommendations have been discussed, but they then linger somewhere. However, I think it can be different if this Chamber asks for a state committee. Then it's a question from the parliament. Parliament is a questioning party and is then also directly involved in the debate. Our group takes this instrument very seriously. The analysis should cover not only the First Chamber, but the parliamentary system as such, the two chamber system which is constitutionally anchored and has been practiced for 200 years. My group is very much in favour of this system. It is balanced, it allows a careful weighing of laws and it has a good track record as far as we are concerned. The Constitution has two chambers of the States-General, each with its own powers, which are exercised in conjunction. The First and Second Chambers are jointly responsible for a careful process of legislation and supervision of the public administration. Of course there are always system questions, small and large. These can be about quality assurance in the legislative process and the procedures that have been set up between the Second and First Chambers. They can deal with the possibility of a possible return right or the question of exactly how European legislation should land in a system set up under national law. Mrs Duthler mentioned that as well. These system questions could be discussed in a state committee, but do not fully justify their setting up. They can also be discussed by ourselves. We could also set up a special committee to make proposals for this. Is this justification for a state committee perhaps mainly in the discussion about the position and role of the Supreme Court? Is there at last an opportunity to hear the objections from the 19th century, because Mr Kox has also added them to the historical cabinet to keep them under review? That would take us back in an archaic discussion. The First Chamber has long since ceased to be the Chamber that was there to protect the King's interests and to temper the will of the people. It has developed into an active part of the parliamentary system and at the same time occupies its own position, in which legislation is subject to a final approval. It is gratifying that the First Chamber has emerged from the atmosphere of cigar smoke and ink pot and is playing the parliamentary role conferred by the Constitution. This Chamber shall have the powers designated in the Constitution and the exercise of those powers shall be part of its task. This must be distinguished from the so-called politicisation of the First Chamber. The use of powers is not yet the same as politicisation. The fact that the First Chamber can play that role is particularly positive. This Chamber has emancipated itself and is a full part of the People's Assembly, with its own powers of influence. She is part of a system of checks-and-balances as co-legislator and controller of the government. Given the primacy of the House of Representatives, this Chamber concentrates on the quality of the legislation, it weighs, also politically, but leaves the actual political judgment on government policy to the House of Representatives. There are no Cabinets in the First Chamber. The First Chamber isn't that political. However, my group notes that there is a broad debate on the way in which the First Chamber is elected, on the democratic legitimacy of the role and position of that relatively strong First Chamber. The last election for the Provincial States last year, which was again perceived as elections to the First Chamber, sparked that discussion again. If the First Chamber is so important and has the weapon of the veto, why is this Chamber not directly elected by citizens? In the beautiful book that we have published ourselves on the First Chamber, Versatile in part-time, former colleague Klaas de Vries says that nothing opposes a direct election of the First Chamber. That view already lived with us. For Senates within a two-bedroom system, and there are many in the world, more frequent steps have been taken in elections, for example in France. Stepped-up elections as we have them now can allow for regional anchoring. That would then have to be done on a much wider scale than an election by 600 members of Provincial States, with a ballot box that is always difficult to bring to life. However, there is also the objection that the election for Provincial States is increasingly exposed to the election of the Upper Chamber. So is it not time, as my group wonders, to seriously consider the direct election of the First Chamber? It is precisely the current election through Provincial States that is the archaic element that requires a fresh look.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u115	If the possible wish of the Christian Union to directly elect the First Chamber would be realised, how does Mr Kuiper feel that the relationship between the two Chambers would be? Who has the political primacy in that? Is there indeed a political primacy and how should a conflict between the two chambers, both of which have the direct legitimacy of voters, be resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u116	I know all the objections. That would have been my next sentence in my speech. I know all the objections and objections to such an election, because then of course you give a more direct mandate to the Upper House as well. At the same time, we see the distinction between the First and Second Chambers not in the manner of election, but in the difference in powers. It remains the case that the House of Representatives has several powers, also under the Constitution. In this image, too, she will have to maintain the primacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u117	The powers of the House of Representatives are partly legislative, in terms of the right of amendment, and are also mainly of a supervisory nature. In the end, it is a test of strength as to whether or not legislation is accepted. Now you could still argue from the history of the First and Second Chambers that there is a certain reluctance in the Upper Chamber regarding the rejection of legislative proposals and is also respected, but then there is no reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u118	That restraint will have to remain there. There will therefore have to remain a political culture in which the First Chamber recognises that the political primacy lies with the Lower House. Government agreements are also based on majorities in the Lower House. As you know, government agreements are not being submitted to us here. That too is a recognition of the political primacy of the House of Representatives. That culture of restraint, of recognition of the primacy of the House of Representatives, should remain there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u119	Finally, I will be brief. Mr Kuiper has just made it clear, in an earlier part of his speech, that the way in which this cabinet was formed was unfortunate, because it did not take sufficient account of the Upper Chamber. The need to take account will only increase with a directly elected First Chamber. This also raises the question of why such a government agreement would only apply to the relationship between the House of Representatives and the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u120	No, it's just the way of election. It is not a question of changing the exercise of the rights and powers of this house. It is not, therefore, a change in Mr De Graaf's view that a government agreement should be submitted to us. This is a democratically elected body; it is now a democratically elected body. If you change the way you elect, that does not mean that you change the position of this Chamber in the parliamentary system. But I think this is a subject to be referred to the State Committee; that is what I am talking about here. It is an excellent subject that you should refer to a state committee, because there is a real political problem underneath it. This should also appeal to Mr De Graaf. This room has so much power. It has the possibility of vetoing. Citizens wonder from time to time how a law important to the country can be passed in the Lower House and still be aligned in the Upper Chamber. How can that be, how can you identify it, so they ask. That is a real democratic problem and it should be considered to elect the First Chamber directly, or in a system where steps are taken and mixed directly. The latter can also be done; in some situations you have that. The current situation, however, in which more than 600 members of the Provincial States determine the composition of this Chamber, is certainly unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u121	How political culture develops is, of course, a bit difficult to predict. I would have some fear in direct elections that the First and Second Chambers will be more alike, so to speak. Another point is the following. Mr Kuiper himself mentioned that the regional embedding at Upper Chambers, at Senates, is not unusual. Does he see the combination of direct election and regional embedding as a good opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u122	Sure. If it were the case, for example, in France, where the Senate reflects regional relations and where the senators are elected by 150,000 regional representatives, I would find it quite a different story than we are now. I am now also concerned with the narrow base, where members of the Provincial States, who were elected in an election campaign on Provincial States, at least, that is always the idea of determining the establishment of the First Chamber. I would also be in favour of the character of this Chamber being seen as such. On the one hand, we have the Lower House, which is a direct reflection of the entire Dutch people, in direct elections, and on the other hand this Chamber, which has a kind of regional significance in character. Moreover, "regional" might even mean "European" and European legislation would also have a special significance here. However, as far as I am concerned, there should be an answer to the real problem of the current lack of democratic legitimacy of the great power of this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u123	When I hear that, I do not really see a fundamental difference between the French system and our system, apart from the fact of scale. Does it really matter so much that it's less people? If the system leads to a region sending, isn't that the basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u124	That's not the only thing I mentioned either. How's it going now? We ask the citizens to come to the ballot box for Provincial State elections, but that election is being hijacked more and more by the election of the First Chamber. This is not good for the Provincial States either, because the Provincial States will soon be reflecting the relationship in the Upper House. The voice of the citizen is made ambiguous. We should put an end to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u125	I also ask a question about the ID. If I understand correctly, Mr Kuiper says that direct elections might be possible but that we could also do it regionally or at European level. That is a diversion of the provincial route, namely to the region or to Europe. That is my first point. The second is this. Imagine that we would indeed proceed to direct elections. Then what Mr Kuiper just mentioned becomes a much bigger problem, namely that a law is passed in the Lower House and then rejected in the Upper House, while the same voters have elected. Then the only difference is that this Chamber is somewhat smaller and therefore the number ratios may have become slightly different. It is precisely the provincial route that gives a different ID, which might also give the possibility of a more calm reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u126	We're doing our job here without bother and back. This is an important principle of work in Parliament. We are a representative body. The way in which the First and Second Chambers have been elected is important, that must be democratically justified, but once these Chambers have been elected, the work is done without burden and backspoke. If then there are own considerations here in the First Chamber to reject a law that has been passed in the Second Chamber, then so be it. That is the work of democracy. Then we should not look back and ask ourselves: are we perhaps doing something on behalf of certain electoral groups? Are those voters perhaps in the Provincial States? I know from Mr De Graaf that I cannot say that, because the members of the Provincial States are not our constituents. That would be the wrong way to look at the electorate. Mr President, I shall continue my speech. My point was therefore that, in the view of my group, the establishment of a state committee could indeed be justified. I will skip the section on electoral thresholds in the text of my speech. I have just made that point in the case of Mrs Van Bijsterveld's interruption. If it were to mean that the State Committee would speak on such questions, it would not have our support. The First Chamber is co-legislator together with the Second Chamber. The task of the First Chamber has been to monitor, among other things, the quality of legislation. There is already the limitation of the task. Given the nature and complexity of legislation, this is a robust task, which increases rather in weight than decreases. Whether that quality is under pressure is not easy to say. However, government agreements have a strong binding effect on the formation of political groups and legislation is brought about under political pressure. There is something to say for the argument that as this role of government agreements has become stronger, the focus on the quality of legislation in this house has been more emphasised. But with what instruments can the First Chamber influence that quality, given that the First Chamber cannot amend? In the opinion of our group, it is inevitable that in this situation the First Chamber further optimizes its parliamentary role; so it does not reduce, but optimises. It's already happening. It is happening now and in the future, I hope, more and more by strengthening our own information position, hearings, own research and participation in parliamentary associations. There is no doubt that contacts with directors and departments have become much more intensive. Attention to the quality of legislation also means that the First Chamber can give earlier signals about legislation in preparation. In my view, this should be done even more systematically. Should the First Chamber have the right to return? This has often been mentioned; it has already come by a few times this afternoon. However, such a return duty as a regular instrument is less obvious when it comes to optimizing its own role. The instrument can be considered, provided it is technical flaws and imbalances and does not turn it into a political instrument. In practice, however, it will either act as a parliamentary delay tactic or as a hollowing out of the role of the First Chamber, we fear. The demand for the quality of legislation also arises with regard to European directives and regulations. Our two-chamber system is geared to the national legislative process. That's how it was designed in the nineteenth century. Parliament's involvement in European decision-making has then been added. The Lisbon Treaty aims to give national parliaments a new role in European decision-making. Can we deal with this task within the current parliamentary way of working? It has been suggested that an additional meeting day should be devoted to European legislation and regulations. In concrete terms, this would mean that next to Tuesday, Wednesday should also be available for work in the Upper House. Shouldn't we consider that, too? The First Chamber is also the auditor of the government with the Second Chamber and in this the First Chamber recognizes the political primacy of the Second Chamber. The principle of trust is not directly at issue in the First Chamber. However, the First Chamber regards it as its duty to monitor the feasibility of legislation. Mr De Graaf made an important comment in the General Political Reviews on whether the First Chamber is sufficiently equipped to ensure that legislation is enforceable. I'll put that question back in the middle. This is an increased responsibility for the effects of legislation. After all, legislative proposals receive their final test in this house. In 2011, the First Chamber decided to conduct its own parliamentary inquiry, precisely because of the ongoing social discussions on the implementation of certain laws.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At that time, I think it was right for the First Chamber to take on that responsibility and say: if citizens are permanently dissatisfied with the implementation of legislation and measures, we should look in the mirror and look at how we have fulfilled our role. The controlling task of the First Chamber should therefore focus on the legislation itself much less on general government policy, because that remains a task of the Second Chamber and its effects. The instruments that this Chamber should have in order to carry out its monitoring task could be identified. Finally. The establishment of a state committee is a major instrument. An overly broad or unfocused assignment makes the work of such a committee complex. The outcome is not guaranteed in advance of acceptance. If I listen to what is being discussed here this afternoon, I am afraid that the task is still very broad. Everyone will then read their own ideas and will soon want to deal with them in their own way. Strictly speaking, my group would only see a clear mandate if a state committee were to deal with the way in which the First Chamber was elected. Such a choice requires constitutional change and must be thoroughly considered. This assignment may seem limited, but is exciting enough. After all, it naturally brings with it the discussion about the position and the task of the First Chamber in the broad sense. The other issues strictly do not justify the establishment of a state committee. The procedure of this Chamber is up to the Chamber itself. Moreover, existing bodies may also be asked to advise on this and, again, there are opinions and reports. As far as the functioning of the parliamentary system is concerned, let us first take stock of the problems. I am thinking of bottlenecks relating to the legislative process, i.e. the cooperation between the Second and First Chambers, and the parliamentary role in relation to European legislation and regulations. That seems to me to be a very useful task. For the First Chamber, the question is how to embrace the co-legislative and controlling task in today's and tomorrow's current situation. This has already been taken into account at various times. Would it not be a good idea to set up a temporary committee of our own, on the basis of our Rules of Procedure, which makes an inventory of the analyses and ideas presented and then, on the basis of a subsequent analysis, makes a subsequent proposal here? This could mean setting up a state committee on a number of more targeted points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u127	I would like to understand Mr Kuiper. I listened to his speech. There are many similarities between the problems he identifies and the trends and problems I have raised in my contribution. When I listen to it that way, I think we are actually already in agreement on a lot of things. Mr Kuiper has already addressed the solutions, such as the role of the First Chamber and the method of election of the First Chamber. That seems to me to be a second step. Of course, a state committee does not have the last word, but is a means of carrying out the in-depth analysis that Mr Kuiper is talking about and linking it back to Parliament. In the end, we are dealing with what needs to be done with the results. Am I right in saying that we have this problem in common with those trends?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u128	Yeah, part of it is. I am mainly trying to find the right pitch, the pitch that I think we need to take the next step. Let's say we're giving an order that's very spacious and wide. For some, it may mean that we have to rethink the two-bedroom set. I think we have no reason to do so. There is no reason for this in the current discussions. Also the report of the SCP that has been quoted here a few times is the report Less democracy, more politics? It does not give rise to such a situation. The citizen is generally satisfied with the representative system as we now have it. I would therefore like the task to be more focused, including by identifying one's own problem by ourselves. Mrs. Duthler doesn't do that. She says that we should allow that State Commission to consider a number of trends and have an analysis based on them. Then we give it all out of our hands and let others actually say what we should say to each other: how we want it to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u129	If I listen carefully, we agree on a large number of trends and problems. We agree that this role of European decision-making has changed our own work and may change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u130	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u131	We agree that we need to look closely at the involvement of citizens in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u132	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u133	We agree that we may need to take a closer look at the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u134	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u135	I think we can agree on a large number of things this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u136	Yes. I would, however, like to see a possible motion which is still before us bringing that precision to bear. In fact, Mrs Duthler mentions exactly what we agree on. I agree that we are looking at how our parliamentary system can function or improve in the light of the European dimension of legislation. That's one. Secondly, we agree that it is good to look at the position of the First Chamber and its democratic legitimacy. Mrs Duthler talks about the relationship between citizens and government, but then it becomes very broad again. The CDA might then say that, as far as it is concerned, there is also the dual electoral system and such things to be reckoned with. So it's going all over the place. We also agree on what Mrs Duthler said at the end about the legislative process itself: is there anything to optimize in the course of a legislative proposal between the Second and First Chambers? We agree on these three things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u137	Mrs Duthler, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u138	For my group, the relationship between civil policy is not so much something that we need to involve, but above all a reason for the problems we are now seeing. It is a reason to consider whether we should not go to that great maintenance now instead of waiting for the roof to leak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u139	That's like philosophy. There always is. They are eternal questions and there is also an eternal question about the relationship between the citizen and the government. So I find it very, very unspecific. Moreover, there is already a lot of talk and publication about this. I think it is too general to say that it is about the relationship with the citizen. What exactly do you mean? Then what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u140	Very briefly, Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u141	I am talking about the legitimacy, legitimacy, of the government, of democracy, and that is that citizens see themselves sufficiently represented in the parliamentary system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u142	Well, let's say that. Let us then use such formulations. Mr President, I had come to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u143	Mr. Chairman. As you have already recalled, the debate we are having today, three months after the celebration of the 200-year anniversary of the States-General, is indeed special. We are grateful to the VVD Group for having opened the debate today. We are inclined to respond positively to the invitation that has been made and the way in which this issue is being discussed here today. For the PvdA Group, the fact that we are having a debate with ourselves today does not mean that we should only talk about the Upper House. We see this debate as a starting point for reflection on the whole of the States General, but also on the role of the citizen in the system, if I may use this word from Mr De Graaf, because it was linked to the title of the day. A possible assignment for the establishment of a state committee should also include an invitation to the Lower House to give its view on this assignment. On 16 October last, in her contribution to the Knight's Room, the President rightly emphasised the complementarity and intertwinedness that characterizes our two-chamber system. To begin with, we are positively convinced of the ability of our parliamentary system to adapt to social developments. This also reflects the history of the parliamentary system. I'm going back to one of my favorite periods of patriotic history. This two chamber system goes back with the principle of universal suffrage to the founding fathers of the Batavian Republic, not to 1815, who, through the revolutions of 1795, in 1796 called the first National Assembly together and established a new state regime in 1798: our first Constitution. After the American and French Revolutions at the end of the 18th century, the Batavian Republic became the third nation to operate such a two-chamber system. "Freedom," "equality" and "brotherhood" were the well-known slogans under which these political changes took place. All political movements in this country, from left to right, can still be seen in the 21st century as distractions, mixes or reactions to these principles. The Christian, conservative reaction to the French Revolution and the Napoleonic wars, as well as the heydays of classical liberalism or socialism, are depraved of this period. Evolution or revolution is no longer a real dilemma for all participants in parliamentary democracy after the formation of universal suffrage and proportional representation in 1918. It is interesting to note that the renowned Cort van der Linden cabinet (1913-1918) successfully achieved legislative proposals on both voting rights and school law without having a parliamentary majority. It was then a turbulent time: the First World War beyond our borders, the flow of refugees from Belgium, the economic crisis caused by the disruption of world trade and so on. Very recognizable, perhaps? The "god peace" concluded between the left and the right was the driving force behind the success of this cabinet. At the same time, the threat of revolution from abroad was decisive both in 1848 and in 1917 in the major changes; the introduction of ministerial responsibility and universal suffrage led to the system we now have. After the Second World War and the cultural revolution of the 1960s, it was no longer essential formal adjustments to our system, despite various initiatives. More democracy became a question of cultural policy. What was particularly important was the nature of the relationship between citizens and their governments. Participation, information, participation and the possibility of participation are, with the disappearance of the shattered society, specific tasks for the same authorities, while preserving the representative democracy that guarantees the rights of the many minorities that characterise our pluralist society. We see this view confirmed in the conclusions of the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau of October last year, entitled More democracy, less politics. On page 100 of this study, the authors argue that for decades there has been a call for a shift from political democracy around the government to social democracy in society, with more social self-government, participation in the economy and in education, a greater role for civil society and more do-democracy and co-creation. The stocktaking shows that there is a high level of support for increased participation and control. Forms of direct democracy are seen as complementary to representative democracy, not as an alternative. We would like to emphasise this point, in addition to the focus on the EU's influence and the volatility of the electorate. These are issues of which we also endorse the importance, and we believe that, in a possible mandate for the State Committee, the importance of social democracy should be underlined in relation to its formal aspects. The recent letter and study of the Rathenau Indituut also point to this, about the possibilities offered by digital media. The EU's influence on our legislative activities cannot be underestimated. In the field of the environment, for example, experts note that more than 80% of them are now derived more or less directly from European directives. Through the Treaty of Lisbon and its own proactive attitude to the assignment of topics, our own vision and position in the European Union can contribute to the best possible integration. The volatility of the electorate and its impact on government formation are important aspects of democratic opinion formation in recent years. It has been shown that our system is open to many new movements and parties. Majority formation remains possible due to the fact that parties challenge each other after the elections in order to connect with each other to a policy that has been supported. Our traditions at this point are formed from the Rhineland model, the pacific democracy or the simple polder model. You don't have to be a dike count to cherish these Dutch values. Within this system, the role of the First Chamber is limited and complementary to the Second Chamber, but of essential importance given its contribution to the quality of legislation, while also making a political assessment. In addition to the formal aspects of the parliamentary system, we must also look at the cultural factor, the method of application. As a young senator, I am somewhat surprised, and my group with me, at the way in which the present First Chamber seeks competition with the House of Representatives in some cases. We see motions that are disguised amendments, they ask for novelles and motions that have not been passed are retabled on the other side. We would like to encourage each other to discuss working methods, focus on the quality of legislation as a guide to our work, and integrity and openness. This can also very well be given a place in addition to the work of a state committee which, by itself, focuses on medium-term adjustments and formal regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u144	I understand that Mr Verheijen as a young senator is still a bit surprised, but on behalf of the whole group he is also surprised by the competition with the House of Representatives, which escapes me. In my view, his group, especially when I measure the previous groups, has considerable experience of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u145	Thank you for this comment in that context. It is also part of the political work. I would like to stress that the cultural factor - the way we do the work together - can be a discussion that can be seen separately, and can also be placed, in relation to the work of a state committee. It looks more at formal adjustments and changes that are necessary from a medium-term perspective. The structure and culture always touch each other. The debate with Mr Kuiper has just indicated that if you change the structure of the First Chamber, the direct election of the First Chamber will inevitably lead to changes in the position of the First Chamber in cultural terms, and vice versa. I would like to draw attention to this with my contribution. That it can be dealt with separately from the other and that we have different means to do so. We also want to reaffirm the primacy of the House of Representatives. It is based on direct elections and knows the right of initiative and amendment. The Dutch traditions are based on freedom, tolerance and the pursuit of an international legal order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u146	Mr Verheijen wishes to reaffirm the primacy of the House of Representatives, because it is based on direct elections and on the right of amendment. That sounds good, but where does it say that? The Constitution states that the States-General represents the whole people and consists of two Chambers, with one Chamber getting more rights and the other Chamber getting the "cannon" to say at the end of the debate that it is not going to happen like this. That's always very easy to say. I think that a state committee will also have to look at how that works, also in the light of what Mr Verheijen said, namely that he was surprised. He did not say that he was surprised to see that things are sometimes done here that have already been done on the other side. A state committee should really look into that. Then she could come to the question of whether it is still good to have both Chambers compete with each other. Or should there be one room? I would just like to mention an old idea of the Labour Party on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u147	The Labour Party has a rich tradition of suggestions. But here we stand for complementarity. How can you better organise, meet and arrange them in the context of future stability? We do not go as far as you suggest by a single-room system. That question really needs to be put to the state committee itself. We don't have an opinion on that. It also means that the suggestions that Mr Kuiper has just made do not fit in with our approach to explicitly opting for direct election of the First Chamber. That can boost the tension instead of solving it. The pluralism in our society is our history. If we do not recognise them, we deny the development of our state structure and democracy has an essential indeterminateness: the possibility of free political action. Democracy must always be defended against those who believe that this pluralism is bringing society into crisis. The recognition of this pluralism is the added value of democracy; it is the basis for the pursuit of an egalitarian form of society. Its foundation is set out in the Declaration of Human Rights and Citizen, dated 1789. It is an unfinished symphony worth striving for: the only thing that can rule out a democratic society is the fact that it will not exclude anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u148	I have one more question, especially because I want things to be as clear as possible for the rest of the considerations. You are talking about a state committee and about work that we can do ourselves; that is what I was talking about myself. It could be about the method of working, the division of work between the Second and First Chambers and so on. In your opinion, the state committee would be more about the formal side, so the amendments to the Constitution and other legislation. You also mentioned the volatility of the electorate. What exactly would a state committee do with that? What do you expect from that? Isn't this volatility just the way democracy works? It is sometimes compared by some to a market: parties receive support or not. What's wrong with that? What would a state commission do with volatility?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u149	The direct analysis that the State Commission could make on this could provide suggestions for the way in which governments are formed. That would be an obvious part of the work of the state committee. There too, we are not talking about artificial interventions, such as raising the electoral threshold or anything like that. That's not what we're here for right now. We do want the State Commission to examine this explicitly in the context of volatility. Other systems may also be involved in the reflections. Whether it is the Scandinavian, German or French system, such a state committee can in principle summarise everything that has been collected over the past 50 years and draw conclusions, given the questions about the future stability of our system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u150	What exactly are you thinking about? We know that it takes several parties in the Netherlands to form a government. In what direction should the State Commission think?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u151	The difference between our attitude and yours is that we do not want to give any direction on that point. We would rather leave it to the State Commission to analyse it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u152	I understand that. We should start an analysis of what is not good or could not go well if we continue on the current road. You want to come up with an alternative. But what's wrong with the current M.O.? What would be wrong with five parties forming a coalition? We are very good at fruitful cooperation. What would be the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u153	I have already said that the participatory democracy we built about 50 years ago was very much in line with the social problems we had at the time. The question to the State Commission is: look at the social developments that are currently affecting us, and above all at whether the system is adequate to ensure sufficient effectiveness, support and perseverance, in the light of social developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u154	In relation to Mr Kox and Mr Kuiper's question, I have heard you say both times: the state committee itself can say that it is also taking up this issue. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u155	I thought that the summary you gave during your little debate with Mrs Duthler was good: put it with the state committee, which then comes with an analysis and a number of solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u156	I think there's still a difference. It is not a task, it is a question to the state committee. Then you say: if that state committee is busy, it can also decide to talk about the single chamber system. Then the whole electoral system could be discussed. Can I put it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u157	No. We want us to share the social trends in a text and say: this is the starting point for the analysis of the state committee. Compare this with the way parliamentary democracy now works and see if any changes are needed, particularly in the complementarity between the Second and First Chambers. Involve this in the role of social democracy, social democracy and the link between that parliamentary system and the forms of social democracy we encounter in business, education and neighbourhoods, which are increasingly flourishing. That would be my wording, if I could submit the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u158	Did you say "social democracy" or "social democracy"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u159	Both.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u160	Both. I was very pleased with the contribution of the colleague of the Labour Party, because, on the basis of what we have heard from him, I can see that the Labour Party is also in favour of using a state committee as a means of bringing this debate forward. Nor does the Labour Party say on this point: this must come out. We will first see what the committee is going to bring together about opportunities and opportunities, after which we will finish the debate in this house and perhaps on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u161	I'm glad I've been so clear with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u162	I'm happy about that, too. So that's what we're agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u163	Mr. Chairman. During our reflection on the question of whether there might be a state committee on reflection parliamentary system, we had mixed feelings. First of all, the question kept us occupied, why the VVD had launched this thought during this period. As a second question, have there not been too many committees which have examined all possible changes and made recommendations? In a positive sense, we are adding a third aspect. As a general rule, voters may vote only once every four years and then they have to wait and see what the parties to which they have voted will do with the power they have delegated to the parties. The current coalition of VVD and PvdA is a textbook example of what the VVD and PvdA voters did not want. In this modern age, there are new ways of involving the electorate more often and more strongly. 5OPLUS is a strong supporter of direct democracy and it is also part of the party programme. During the formation of the Rutte II Cabinet, the VVD and the Labour Party forgot that a majority in the First Chamber would be necessary to be able to rule with force. It is precisely if we want the First Parliamentary Groups not to play their own political role that we should be happy to vote in accordance with the Lower Parliamentary Groups. This reaffirms the primacy of the directly elected parliament. In our opinion, the VVD turned that around when group leader Halbe Zijlstra spoke in an interview in De Telegraaf about an unmanageable situation and indicated that the First Chamber should be abolished if it were to obstruct the cabinet. The VVD-senator De Grave, who was mostly appreciated by me, joined and stated that the government was not previously made impossible to govern on such a large scale. And passant was forgotten by both VVD-coryphies that it was precisely the VVD-group in the Senate that blocked by Loek Hermans a cabinet decision on an income-dependent care premium. Of course, we do not question the good intentions behind this debate, but we do not forget these events either. I come to my next point. Another commission? After the Second World War, there have been many committees that have painted all pros and contras on numerous subjects. The fourth committee in this row, the Cals/Donner Committee, which acted from 1967 to 1971, advised among other things on the elected Prime Minister, the district system, the corrective referendum and a majority voted for direct election of the First Chamber. The following State Commission-Biesheuvel reported, among other things, on increasing the influence of the electorate on policy-making. The next committee, the De Koning Committee, advocated the right of return by the Upper Chamber. Then two more committees followed. Many recommendations never reached the finish line because of the great political divisions, but almost everything has already been mapped out in the past. In addition, numerous reports have been produced by the political parties themselves. The political divisions and also the political rigidity are the reasons why our parliamentary system is malfunctioning on a number of points. A new state committee, if it comes up with recommendations for which the desired parliamentary majority exists, will take the necessary time. If it is to lead to constitutional changes, we will soon be talking about a period of six to eight years. The chance that the political landscape would have changed radically is certainly not an imaginary one. I therefore put the following question to the party that took this initiative, the VVD. I understand that this is a committee with former politicians, or do we want a committee without that political commitment, which is likely to have the same office as its many predecessors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u164	To answer Mr Nagel's question, the point is that the committee members have sufficient experience with the political business. It's not about political commitment, it's not about political commitment. The point is that the committee members have experienced the way things work here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u165	I will come back to that later, because I have another interesting question for the VVD. If I may, I shall now stick to the order of my speech and come back to that later. In the opinion of 5OPLUS, it would make a great deal of difference if the political parties were to react less evenly and, above all, less rigidly to a number of practical issues. In some cases, therefore, there is no need for a state committee. Think of whether there are too many parties and whether the fragmentation is too large. You could discourage the splitting and introduce a voting threshold. For example, 50PLUS has a 3% limit in its election programme. In 1952 the Dark motion was already adopted in the Lower House and in 1962 the Beernink motion to raise the electoral threshold was adopted, but these motions were subsequently not carried out. Like D66, we have said: lift up the First Chamber or leave the First Chamber as long as it still exists to form directly by the voters. In addition to being a little less rigid, let politicians be a little heavier. In 2013, the Party filed a motion for the Animals and 50PLUS to elect the First Chamber directly. Among other things, VVD, PvdA, SP and GroenLinks voted against that. Shortly afterwards, NRC Handelsblad conducted a survey on this subject. At that time, senators from these four mentioned parties appeared to be in favour, but they only wanted to give their opinion anonymously, according to NRC Handelsblad. In a recent survey carried out by Maurice de Hond, 68% of voters find the indirect way in which the First Chamber is elected no longer of this time. A similar majority believes that the first Chamber should be elected directly. It is striking that a majority of the voters agree with all parties. This raises the question of whether some parties should not ask themselves whether they have alienated themselves from their electorate rather than making a plea for a state committee better and more quickly. The VVD should lead the way, because almost 80% of the VVD voters want the First Chamber to be directly elected. The voter used to be rather party-faithful, but the new generations who haven't experienced the veiled era are changing their voices more often and more quickly. This will continue to lead to major differences in the composition of the two chambers. Really effective is to solve that by holding the elections at the same time. That is not a strange idea; it was already in the PvdA report The Dutch parliamentary system of the Citizen's Committee, which appeared in May 1967. It was based on a variant of the Batavian-Norwegian system whereby 225 MPs were elected in one day and then split up. The report is certainly still very interesting in the current political situation on this issue. The question is whether setting up a state committee makes sense if it is not established in advance that there is a majority for certain subjects to be dealt with. In the memorandum of initiator Loek Hermans it was stated that the involvement of the political groups in the Second and First Chambers must be guaranteed. Is the VVD now of a different view? How does the VVD's plea relate to the fact that only former politicians have to sit on the committee to what Hermans wrote in his note? How are we supposed to explain that? The risk that the results of a possible new state committee will be the same as those of its many predecessors seems to us to be very great. 50PLUS therefore awaits the further course of this discussion with interest. I come to my final point: direct democracy. The relationship between politics and voters has been mentioned many times this afternoon. We hope that today's debate will at least produce one thing: the greater involvement of citizens in decision-making, also advocated by the Rathenau Institute. The new digital democracy can mean a lot to the Dutch parliament. It allows voters to consult and participate in decision-making. 5OPLUS is a strong supporter of this. The citizens' initiative breaks the monopoly on government and parliament legislation and can reduce the far too wide gap between citizens and The Hague. Already in 2003, Maurice de Hond proposed a far-reaching reform of our parliamentary system. In our view, this should become a central theme for a new state committee, with a strong focus on countries that are ahead of us and on the opportunities that will expand further in the short term. Indeed, we need to find new formulas that allow citizens, and we mean all citizens, to express themselves more often and more directly on matters that determine their future. We believe, contrary to the scope set out in the Hermans memorandum, that this should also apply to local authorities. Parliamentary democracy can greatly benefit if citizens are much more involved thanks to the digital opportunities that already exist or are coming. In this respect, a state committee can indeed give new insights a great opportunity. 50PLUS would very much welcome this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u166	Perhaps the following reassures Mr Nagel. The VNG and the NGB have set up a similar committee this afternoon, which is also looking at whether local democracy and local government are sufficiently future-proof. So there's already a parallel trajectory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u167	I will clarify it with an example that we believe will be good for involving citizens in democracy, both at local and national level. What if half of the voters felt that a government was not fulfilling the government or a B and W college and that it had to go home? Then it could be considered that this is indeed happening. That is a form of direct democracy. It may have gotten used to for a few parties, but in the sense of 50PLUS we should go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u168	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a note from the colleagues of the VVD. This is what we do in the plenary because after a year of consultation there is still no agreement on the substance. After numerous discussions at the College of Seniors, in which no agreement could be reached, this plenary debate must now lead to a clear vision. Let me say first of all that the PVV Group welcomes any proposal aimed at improving the involvement of citizens in political decision-making and thereby reducing the gap between citizens and politics, provided that this is actually the objective. Frankly, we have our doubts about this, precisely because the proposal comes from the VVD. The same VVD has our country flooded with hopeless asylum seekers, who are a danger to our way of life and the safety of our daughters. The same VVD wondered out loud on Radio 1 last weekend whether it was really that bad in Cologne. More than 750 women have reported it, but according to the VVD the media make it much bigger than it is. Moreover, all men would exhibit such behavior, not just men from Islamic countries. In short, it is not an Islamic problem but a male problem. Congratulations, VVD: this reasoning confirms that you have actually become part of the PvdA. No, the real reason for the proposal to set up a state committee is that the current power ratio in this house is very bad for the VVD. Mrs. Duthler can jump high or low with her denial that this was the cause, but at least she's against appearances. The VVD's call for democratic renewal can therefore count on some cynicism on our part. We can no longer afford to look at the future and the challenges it poses with the old, politically correct pattern of thinking, that ideological straitjacket. The world has changed. For this reason, the PVV Group considers it essential that any state committee to be set up should be composed of persons who are not members of any political party, and who have proven in their previous work not to be trapped in existing political dogmas. For the PVV Group has no doubt that our parliamentary system is in need of serious rethinking and even renewal. The gap between citizens and politics has never been greater than it is now. The Dutch citizen screams, but the political elite does not hear him, or rather: does not want to hear him. As a relative newcomer to this house, I have experienced many times in recent times how inflexible some colleagues are against the changed circumstances. During the discussion of the asylum crisis, for example, one of the most acute threats to our prosperity, welfare state and security is often frightenedly referred to the House of Representatives, with the announcement that we should not interfere too much with topicality in the First Chamber. But even at the moment when the House of Representatives has finished a proposal and is discussed in this House, some parties try to hide behind the House of Representatives. One month ago, for example, the lack of funding for the referendum on 6 April was discussed. The PVV filed a regulatory motion, but several parties thought it was a disguised amendment and voted against because they felt that they would otherwise move into the area of the Lower House. To vote against a motion with procedural arguments even though you agree with the content, and then wonder why the gap between citizens and politics has become so great? If we really want democratic renewal, we will have to put innovative minds to work, who get carte blanche for their research. No political taboos in advance, no sacred houses. I say this in particular because several parties have already indicated that they believe that the mandate of such a state committee should not be too broad. By this they mean to say that the results should not be too innovative. That is an undesirable limitation in advance. A state committee could look, among other things, at ways of abolishing the First Chamber and allowing more direct participation of citizens, for example through referenda. As mentioned by previous colleagues, voting through new opportunities, for example via the Internet or other digital media, should also be carefully investigated. The PVV Group wants to see serious renewal now. The current state system is no longer of this time. According to the PVV group, the success of GeenPeil also tastes like more. In particular, we are looking at Switzerland. Through a grassroots initiative, Swiss can make almost any matter a subject of a referendum. Let the state committee to be set up look closely at a referendum system based on a Swiss model: how can that system, or parts of it, be applied in the Netherlands? Direct participation is what the Dutch citizen really needs. The current cabinet often talks about public support and civic participation, as I have just heard the VVD colleague say. These two concepts would combine beautifully in a Swiss-style referendum system, but that requires political courage. That is why I would like to call on colleagues in this Chamber to set up a real state committee, with politically independent members and a mandate to give citizens more direct participation. Only in this way is there any hope that citizens and politicians will be closed down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u169	I wanted to give the floor to Mr De Graaf, but he is gone for a while. That is why I shall now give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u170	Mr. Chairman. Over the past few months, and perhaps even years, we have seen worried citizens who want to influence the things that affect them in all manner of keys. Of course, this is the case when an azc arrives nearby, but also in the implementation of the pgbs and in large-scale infrastructure. At the same time, we note over a longer series of years that the tendency to vote among voters is decreasing. The long-term trend shows declining turnout rates. At the same time, more than 400,000 people are also asking for a referendum on a subject that does not make the front page every day. It is also of a recent date that people's representatives in their own parliament criticize the legitimacy of that parliament. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. These are examples of clear signs that there is something going on in the relationship between society and politics. In this light, does my group find it interesting to go back to the recent report entitled More democracy, less politics? of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. In that report, a lot of research and data from countless opinion polls are examined. The researchers summarise it briefly: "The support for the principle of democracy is and remains strong. People are less positive about 'politics'." I quote: "More than 90% of the Dutch support the idea of democracy, and more than 70% are sufficiently satisfied with the functioning of democracy. The practical implementation of democracy, that is to say, politics, is less satisfied. There is much criticism of elected politicians and great support for greater participation of citizens and more direct democracy (e.g. referenda on important issues, choosing the mayor). However, the largest group does not consider it necessary for citizens to influence all laws and many prefer representative democracy to a model in which as much as possible is decided by referendum." So democracy is doing pretty well. That's kind of reassuring, but politics needs to be better. And that's an assignment. Politics must be more accessible and credible, and bold and decisive where it should be. We politicians just need to do better. Society is right to ask us to do so. A well-functioning democracy with credible leaders and politicians is necessary to address the major issues of today's day. I refer to the climate crisis and the need for a change to a sustainable economy, the approach to inequality to prevent disruption of societies, and peace and security, and above all the lack thereof, which means that people must flee massive war, violence and hunger. To mention just a few issues that require a strong and recognisable approach at national and European level. Within that framework, we are discussing the role and position of the First Chamber today, but fortunately, many groups have a broader perspective than that. Reflection on its own functioning is fine and even necessary as long as it does not become navel staring that distracts from the major issues in society. Reflection on its own functioning must be in the light of the democratic legitimacy of our system, which is needed to find solutions to major societal issues. From that point of view, we would like to assess the note and the question as to why and to what extent a state committee to be set up on reflection parliamentary system. Thought is always good, of course, but let us not necessarily do so in the form of a state committee that looks at the system. How complicated it is, it is also apparent from the preliminary trajectory. In the discussions of the group chairmen here in the First Chamber, there has been hardly any consensus on the desirability, content and task of the possible state committee. In this respect, it is right to hold a debate now to decide whether and if so how we want to proceed. As far as we are concerned, if we do it, no ex ante results determined by the political opportunity of the day but a brief and sharp reflection on the essential functioning of our parliamentary democracy. My group is based on two principles. Firstly, what is needed to maintain and further strengthen the necessary legitimacy of the democratic system from the States-General in the future? Secondly, how can we increase the citizen's desired influence on how policies and legislation are achieved and thereby improve the quality of legislation? The interesting question here is whether a state committee is the best way to strengthen the legitimacy and increase the involvement of citizens, or whether we can use this Chamber to do so in other ways. The focus on these two principles means for my group that the one and two points of view in the note, namely the increasing importance of European decision-making and the increased volatility of the electorate, are not necessarily questions for this state committee. GroenLinks is a strong supporter of increasing the democratic content of the Europe system. More power for the European Parliament and more transparency in decision-making must also be given in the European area, but that seems to us to be a political commitment that must also be regulated, especially in Europe itself. What we can contribute to is fine, but that question is at European level. To be honest, the electoral volatility of the electorate is not a good angle. If we want to do something about that, we say: we do not like the behaviour of the electorate, so we have to think of something. That does not suit us, my group believes. I come to the three and four points of view, a better legitimization of the First Chamber and improvements in the legislative process. These are subjects that we would like to examine from our starting point. We also include point six in the note, the constitutional review by the judge. GroenLinks has also often been critical of the Upper House in the past. We were particularly concerned with the exercise of the primary function of the First Chamber, the review of legislation for legality and practical feasibility. In other words, the test of feasibility, enforcement or the sustainability of legislation. We still find this test of great added value. This ensures the checks-and-balances in the political legislative system. According to our group, however, the First Chamber can only play this role if it has added value and authority in society and if the composition of the First Chamber is seen as logical by the electorate. This is not always the case; several groups pointed out this. If the value and authority would be subject to further erosion, you should go to another system of checks-and-balances in the legislative process. An example of this is the legislative test already advocated in the Constitution. If it comes to a state committee or any other form, we believe that these are the questions that need to be addressed. Other, more direct ways of choosing the First Chamber can therefore be discussed and tasks and powers of the First Chamber can also be critically assessed. We would be open to such reflections. Any outcome will then be checked against the extent to which sufficient checks-and-balances in the parliamentary system continue to be avoided so that legislation is carefully implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u171	I note that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also shares a number of trends and perspectives that my group has previously identified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u172	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u173	I just noticed that you assumed that the electoral volatility, which I also mentioned in my contribution, would be negatively assessed by the VVD Group. I can tell him that is not the case. I would therefore like to remove that misunderstanding. What my group is calling attention to is the consequences of this electoral volatility on the functioning of the parliamentary system. It is not the case that we judge them in advance or at all negatively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u174	I'm glad to hear you don't appreciate it as negative. What we want to be careful about is that the fact that the voter comes to different outcomes than we used to in the past, as such, is a reason to change the system. We don't want to assume that. From your body language, I understand now that you share that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u175	For the Acts: yes, that is the case, we share that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u176	Mr. Chairman. As has been said, we are open to such reflection. Any outcome will then be checked against the extent to which sufficient checks-and-balances in the parliamentary system and democracy will continue to be avoided. The results of a possible committee will be examined in particular by reference to their contribution to the legitimacy of our democratic system, a legitimacy that is of the utmost importance in tackling the major issues of this time by our democratic system, which, once again, fortunately, is still highly appreciated by the Dutch. We welcome the question of whether improvements in the legislative process are possible. For this, our second key question is: how can we increase the impact on citizens' policies and legislation? As far as we are concerned, a possible committee should make clear what its scope is in relation to the whole house of Thorbecke. We believe, first and foremost, that the cabinet is still committed to a broader view of this issue, despite the unhappiness of the cabinet to date on this issue. What we want to give a possible committee is this: take a look at the local government. Direct forms of democracy, from co-production to participation, from G1000 initiatives to open council meetings and from right to initiative to experiments with neighbourhood budgets, have been developed many times more at local level than in the cabinet and in departments. Not everything is successful and not everything succeeds, but according to my group's firm conviction, we can learn a lot from what has already been tried locally in all areas of the realm. There are many best practices to translate into departments, cabinet and both chambers. If we are able to shape the involvement of citizens at a rich level, then the knife cuts on many sides. The quality of legislation can be improved, the legitimacy of citizens increases and the test for practical feasibility and enforcement is much earlier in the legislative process. As far as we are concerned, this is an opportunity that is much more concerned with how we deal with the parliamentary system in practice than with the fact that it must mean a change in the institutions as such. But also here: we go into reflection with an open mind. I have not yet said anything about the role of both chambers in the formation of government, angle five, and the rule of confidence, angle seven. As far as we are concerned, they do not need to be taken into account in a state committee at the moment. The trust rule has also worked properly with the primacy in the Lower House in recent years without anchoring in the Constitution. There is no problem for us at the moment that needs to be solved. We do not now consider that a better definition of the responsibilities of both chambers is urgent. I'm talking about the cabinet formation. Since 2012, we have only changed the rules of the game. Let's get a few formations of experience before we rethink that. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. The composition of a possible committee is something we would like to go into a little further in the second period, after hearing the deliberations. To sum up, we believe that, when we look at the functioning of parliamentary democracy, we need a clear mandate with a clear reference framework. A task in which strengthening the legitimacy of the parliamentary system as a whole and increasing the involvement in the legislative process at national level should be central to our concerns. A better functioning system capable of addressing the major issues of our time with authority, transparency and respect for the citizen. If there's an assignment like this, we're in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u177	I call Mr De Graaf. Wait a minute, because there's something wrong with the button system. When I push the button "reset," it stays at "min." Oh, no, it worked now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u178	I hope someone's able to get me a glass of water. That's where I see the messenger. Mr. Chairman. On 29 January 2013, we held an interesting debate in this Chamber about the way in which the Upper House was elected. Strangely enough, none of my predecessors cited that debate. We conducted that debate in connection with the evaluation of the 2011 results. The debate covered not only the red pencil to be voted by members of state according to the Election Act, but also lists and the question of whether they could also be tabled prior to the Provincial State elections and what obstacles the Constitution poses to this. Most political groups used this debate to discuss the political position of this Chamber in relation to the indirect legitimacy and tension relationship that may arise between the two Chambers and between the First Chamber and the Government. I remember that there was a motion on the table, which, by the way, was unopposed, to allow the First Chamber to be directly elected by the people. I also recall that the so-called return law was discussed in various forms and that it was intensively talked about the supposed imperative for the First Chamber to act politically reluctantly. For the sake of clarity, I would also like to say today that there is no state rule, written or unwritten, which would oblige this Chamber to adopt a political stance. I repeat with agreement the government, which stated on the occasion of the examination of the constitutional reform in 1983 that the First Chamber has and should retain political teeth. How she uses those teeth is first and foremost to be judged by the First Chamber itself. I believe it was then Minister Wiegel of the Interior who used these words. In another capacity, almost twenty years later, he showed what those teeth look like. It is not my intention to repeat that debate again today, recycling is not our core business. I refer to that debate because it was held when a new cabinet had already taken office on the basis of the outcome of the elections to the House of Representatives in autumn 2012. At that time it was already clear that there was no obvious majority for the government in the Upper Chamber, but it was apparently a period of silence before the storm. What struck me in that debate three years ago was that all parties wanted to have the broad talk about the First Chamber and the two chamber system, except CDA and VVD. We know from the CDA that the desire to think about constitutional reforms is limited. Well, maybe the CDA wanted to think about it, but it certainly didn't want to act. I wasn't surprised by the VVD either. I hear Mrs Duthler, who is also a VVD spokesperson today, say 'I quote her literally 'My group does not need a closer examination or a study of the system of the First Parliamentary Elections'. It may be that a year and a half later, our former colleague Hermans, during the 2014 General Political Reviews, proposed to take a serious look at the parliamentary system, because that was really necessary. He was so large that he didn't just mean the role of the First Chamber. He drew it wider and referred, among other things, to the increasingly rapid changes in electoral preference. It doesn't need a rocket science to realize that in those year and a half something happened that changed the mind in the VVD. Only in the course of 2013 was the inconvenience of the incumbent coalition of the VVD and the PvdA over the relations in the First Chamber manifested. In that year and in 2014 the dynamics of the constructive opposition arose, which helped a comprehensive package of reforms to the necessary majorities in both Chambers. The inconvenience of the absence of a self-evident majority tempted coalition leaders, not only of the VVD, to criticize the role and even the right to exist of the First Chamber. A slightly ironic feeling I could only suppress with difficulty at the time. After all, they were senators of the VVD and the PvdA, who in recent decades have always put Cabinets in serious trouble: in 1999 in the Night of Wiegel, in 2005 on the evening of Van Thijn and over a year ago still the Christmas prelude of the "gang of three" led by our former and highly esteemed colleague Adri Duivetteijn. I would just like to say that Mr Hermans' suggestions were born under a somewhat unfortunate guise. It is a state committee to remedy a specific party-political inconvenience. I do not doubt the sincere intentions of the VVD colleagues in this Chamber, but they will want to understand that in my group the eyebrows were slightly frowned at such coincidence. There is therefore an unfortunate sternte and it does not strengthen the motivation to look at the institution and task of a state committee. Nevertheless, my group wants to do so in full seriousness. I will just leave the political opportunism behind me and look at the concerns that exist about the functioning of our democracy and of the parliamentary system. I would point out in advance that, in our view, the relationship between the Second and First Chambers is not the biggest problem in our democracy. Those who look at the reality behind the big words see that the First Chamber has a moderate position in practice and rarely opposes the majority decision-making in the Second Chamber. If I include the flow bill, a rather bizarre example by the way, then in 16 years the First Chamber has aligned exactly sixteen legislative proposals. So there's an average of one per year against the scenery of hundreds, if not thousands of laws that came to the end without fail. The power of the First Chamber lies not or hardly in the voting behaviour, but in the quality of the debate and in the way in which gentle urge leads to repairs and sometimes to novelles and generally leads to improvement. Nor do the political groups here behave like agencies of the political leadership of their parties across the street. In any case, I rarely come across that. The relations are considerably more layered, which does not mean that the political lines drawn in one's own party and in the spirit-related Lower House groups are not taken into account. Of course it does. Finally, we are not state councils but part-time politicians elected on political lists. However, it can be demonstrated that legislative quality, feasibility and possible tension with Constitution and international treaties, including fundamental provisions of law, are here more dominant grounds for review than in the Lower House. That is precisely the difference that determines the added value of the two-chamber system. It doesn't have to be that way forever. My own party is in favour of a single chamber system for reasons of principle; I am not abandoning it either. However, this principle has always been accompanied by the condition that the focus on the quality of legislation will be ensured in a different way. The House of Representatives neglects this quality too often or frustrates it by adding last-minute amendments that are too quickly written and not thought-out. There's no insurance for now. For example, the proposal to lift the ban on constitutional review is still waiting for a second and, I fear, glorious reading for six years. There are people here, too, who believe that a panacea can be found in the change in the manner of election of the First Chamber. I don't believe it. Direct election, whether or not at the same time as the House of Representatives, seems to be a nice democratic gesture, but if we do so, the Senate will politicise ten times more than is currently the case. Moreover, there is a direct competition relationship with the other side. I have already had an interrupting debate with Mr Kuiper on this subject. Then who is in charge and where is the political primacy? Do we have to come up with a new dispute settlement for this and, for example, let the united assembly decide in the event of conflicts? That seems to be a difficult road for my group. That road is as difficult as the romantic thought of the Batavian-Norwegian system. I know that, for example, Mr Kox is very much in favour of this. In that system, the directly elected parliament elects itself from among its members another Chamber, which confines itself to the quality of legislation. In 1798 there was a brief experiment under the Batavian Republic and we still have a similar system in Iceland, Norway and Finland. This system was widely knocked out in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u179	You didn't hear me call the Batavian-Norwegian system. Mr Verheijen spoke about the Batavian era. I am still sufficiently reformist not to refer to things that have ever been in the past. I said, instead of the old idea of lifting one or the other room, you can raise them to one room. The way in which you carry out the feasibility, enforcement and control of constitution and international law remains to be seen. I would like to refer to the Norwegian and Danish systems in which you deal with a legislative proposal in one Chamber, two or sometimes three readings, in particular the second and third readings on the aspects mentioned by Mr De Graaf. I'm still in favour of something new in the future. I do not want to go back to a system that is no longer functioning anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u180	What's new isn't necessarily better. What's old isn't necessarily worse. I understand Mr Kox very well. We find in each other the common search for what is best. The system which is often the subject of discussion, a division of two Chambers into one direct election, was extensively beaten and considered in the 1990s by the De Koning Committee set up by the Second Chamber and of which I was allowed to be a member. The Committee came to the conclusion that such a system entails a great deal of risk for these review tasks. First Member of Parliament for the VVD and state law professor Martin Burkens asked whether in such a system the House of Representatives would be able to appoint alert, critical people or, as he put it, yes-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. You never know what political opportunism is. We could also return to the situation before 1983, in which the First Chamber was partially elected every three years. That was once proposed by both purple cabinets. The advantage could be that the Chamber would act less politically. That's probably true. My party has also thought about this, but back to 1983 also means back to an even more diffuse link between electoral pronunciation and the composition of this part of the parliament. That's how you trade in one ID problem for another. To be honest, I expect little from a state committee on these points, especially since a lot has already been mapped out, including the option of the return right. This is possible as an alternative to the right of veto of the First Chamber, but also in conjunction with that right. The De Koning Committee has also looked at this very strongly. In the meantime, we have stacked state committee on state committee, parliamentary committees and even a national convention. I'm afraid it hasn't been done very much. Is that a reason to not try anything? No, certainly not, but it may temper the expectations somewhat. As I said, we have great concerns about the functioning of our democracy. This has to do with the diminishing confidence in our institutions and with the limited power of action. The great electoral volatility is an expression of rapidly changing social conditions, but also of political instability. Unfortunately, a state committee cannot arm us against that. Perhaps it can do so against excesses, such as the huge fragmentation which, for example, is helped by our electoral system. Moreover, confidence in democracy as such is much greater than confidence in politicians. This is evident from the reports of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. A cheer of the electorate for democracy and booing for those whom they have democratically designated. That should give us some thought. People's representatives are seen as a separate social caste that elevates itself instead of the people. There are many reasons for this great gap between voters and elected people: complexity, educational level, physical and mental distance, professional deformation and jargon. This great distance undoubtedly depends on the way in which most people's representatives are elected, without their own direct mandate, behind the broad back of the list leader and without their own constitution: their own recognizable circle of voters. The electoral system that we have known since 1917, through its political use, de facto creates one large constituency in which only a very small number of Members of Parliament are elected directly on their own. The vast majority of them come in through the transfer of votes to other people's voices and start completely anonymously the Chamber's existence, to unfortunately also often end up like this. Our system requires only a limited responsibility of citizens. They shall vote in favour of the composition of the parliament and shall wait and see what happens to that vote during the formation of the cabinet. To speak with the 1984 Biesheuvel State Commission, there is only a very indirect link between the electorate's pronunciation and the formation of power in this country. The last elections, of course, gave a very good illustration on this point, and at the same time a worrying one. You voted for Rutte, to keep Samsom out of power or the other way around. However, you got them both at the helm. Either you voted GroenLinks, ChristenUnion or D66 for a strong opposition. The opposition then began to participate more or less in power by supporting interim agreements. After all, GroenLinks did so with the loan system. It is all explainable from the inside of our system, but for the outsider, and that is unfortunately the voter, hardly to be followed. Biesheuvel wasn't the first to notice this. Almost 45 years ago, the state committee Cals/Donner put the finger on the same sore spot with all the great state names of that time and little to nothing happened. The desire for conservation in Dutch politics is great, often far too great. There has so far been no cabinet and no minister able to break this. I say that with some experience and self-knowledge. State committees operating at a great distance from that policy are almost by definition at risk of being ignored at the end, because the political commitment has been completely lacking. I see that as a big pitfall for this renewed attempt. I wonder how other groups view that. How do we organise that political commitment on the front, or is that an impossible task? In his earlier suggestions, Mr Hermans, on behalf of the VVD Group, suggested a very wide-ranging committee of experts, including politicians who could participate in the debate with adequate commitment to their parties. I did not get the impression that he was getting his hands on that, perhaps not even within his own group. So we are back with former politicians and many experts, even experts who know about new media, as Mrs Duthler pointed out. Is it perhaps wiser to have both Chambers themselves and together set up a heavy political committee from among them? It's a figure that hasn't been mentioned before. In the past, there has been a state committee with important politicians in it, but that two Chambers do so together has not happened before. Why shouldn't we experiment with it? Shouldn't constitutional renewal start somewhere? I would feel for it because in this way the political channels continue to flow and distance themselves from a result, supported by the committee, becomes a lot more difficult. I would like to hear a second response from the other groups to this idea. There are also other thoughts to involve political leadership more in the state committees. I am also open to that, for example, to the idea of the state committee being accompanied by an advisory or sounding board group. I think that is an option that is acceptable in itself, albeit a second choice as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u181	If it were a committee from members of the First and Second Chambers, isn't Mr De Graaf afraid that there will be political activity in that committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u182	Mrs Duthler says it as if politics is a dirty word. Even when it comes to political renewal, there will be real political commitment in the search for solutions, consensus and support for improvements to the system. I don't mind at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u183	I don't mind that at all. It is also very nice that we are debating a state committee today. It is good that there may be a state committee that should be independent and that we should then have another political discussion about the results here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u184	I do not attach much importance to Mrs Duthler's concept of independence. It's about changing our political system because we're up against a number of boundaries. I shall come back to two or three points at the end of my speech. It is then not at all bad to make politics itself responsible for seeking solutions and changes. That has nothing to do with becoming dependent or conflict of interest. On the contrary, we are the ones who have to face it, we and our colleagues from the House of Representatives, and they must strive for change. Unfortunately, they do not come about in the Netherlands because we and our colleagues in the House of Representatives stop them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u185	I would add one more aspect. That is the way in which we involve the electorate, the citizen if we wish, in our thinking about it. We once had the Civil Forum Choosing System. Maybe that's what people remember. We have done nothing politically with the results of that forum. I am looking for guarantees, even though they do not exist in life, certainly not in politics, so I am looking for framework conditions on the basis of which we can say: political support is important, which is contained in the proposal, but I am thinking from the outset of all kinds of groups in society, because that is what it is all about. Can Mr De Graaf give some thought to how we could shape this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u186	With pleasure, because I believe that a state committee should not be put in a closet with the door locked and then have it checked after a year if the wine has matured. On the contrary, there must be a debate with the State Commission, if there is one, so as far as I am concerned, there should be a political committee, but also with society. We can build on both the Civil Forum and the National Convention of less than ten years ago. It has also collected a great deal of material on views, and at that time there was also a lot of debate through dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u187	I have a clarification question. Mr De Graaf talks about the state committee, which could be of particular interest to the electoral system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u188	No, not alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u189	But I understand from his speech that he says above all: we should actually have a committee from the two chambers that takes up all the questions that we have today. The state committee, I understood from Mr De Graaf's speech, could be particularly interesting when it comes to a delimited subject such as electoral system. Did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u190	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u191	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u192	I have mentioned this as an example, just as I have mentioned the example of the power building and the involvement of the electorate. In my final piece of text a few other examples of things that the state committee really needs to look at come along.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u193	If it is to be a state committee or a committee from both Chambers, it must look at the electoral system as far as Mr De Graaf is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u194	Of course, if only because that electoral system of ours has also been discussed here by a number of colleagues, in that sense whether it is the best way to put together the First Chamber. The electoral system for the composition of the House of Representatives has a number of advantages, but also a number of obvious disadvantages. They have to do with the basic principles of that electoral system, such as proportional representation, but also with the fact that elected people do not have their own mandate. I want a state committee to look at that explicitly. Many proposals have also been made on this subject in many committees. I remember a committee of the CDA from the past, the Van de Donk Committee, and committees of the PvdA, my own party and other parties. That state committee could really use that material.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u195	Mr De Graaf has said what he wants most. That's good, too. In the first term, you say what you really want most. At the same time, we must make progress. He has said that he prefers a political committee. However, he and I know that it is not going to be there because there is no majority for that. Mr De Graaf mentioned as a second option a state committee and a sounding board of politicians who really matter in their parties. Should we ask the other parties, in the second term, for ease of reference, whether they can live with that? Then we are working towards consensus. In the negotiation process, it can sometimes be smart to say: no, I want the first, but we know that is not going to happen. Can we agree that the second proposal could have the support of the D66 groups, the SP and possibly those of the VVD, the PvdA and other groups? Then we'll be happy at the end of the night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u196	I always appreciate the direct and business of Mr Kox when it comes to making his points and scoring points, but if I were to sit on the next best proposal immediately in the first term, if I made suggestions, I wouldn't be worth a cut. Let us see how colleagues respond. Then you can always see what is possible in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u197	It is a very interesting debate. An entire palette of analyses and possible solutions is emerging. I have a question for Mr De Graaf about his proposal to appoint a committee from both chambers. Looking at the discussion, there are quite a lot of different views on this issue in particular. Without prejudging a conclusion on a possible committee to be set up, I would ask Mr De Graaf, in his assessment of the likelihood of such a committee, to behave adequately when all the political groups in the Chambers are represented in it. Is that gonna give him the breakthrough he's hoping for, or is that gonna be a really hard story? I'm looking forward to his assessment, although I can understand why he can't get ahead of himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u198	Two comments. I am sorry to have entered too late so I dangle a bit at the bottom of the list of speakers. If you make proposals at the beginning of the debate, anyone can respond to them. That's my fault. I am also afraid that I must say to Mrs Van Bijsterveld that I had already given up in advance to convince her of the establishment of a heavy political committee, but that does not apply to the other colleagues. I may not succeed in this respect, but I am inclined not to conclude as quickly as Mr Kox that it is not going to succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u199	That's not an answer to my question. Mr De Graaf makes a prediction of our possible support for his proposal. If that committee were to be set up, how does he estimate the possibility that such a committee could indeed come to some broad-based solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u200	That question also applies to a state committee. If you participate in such a committee, if you sit in it, you must have the willingness to seek solutions that have support. You should not take your own position as a starting point in advance, but also not as an end point. I'm not entirely naive, because I have some political experience. I have a tendency to think that it should be possible for a majority to be in favour of a number of amendments, albeit not by unanimity. I would very much like to try that. If this is not possible with a political committee, we will do it through a state committee, but we will gladly do so with political guidance. I know that some groups and some politicians will participate in such a committee with less enthusiasm than others, but that is the price of our multicoloured democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u201	I've given you two more minutes. There's 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u202	Yes. Developments and new realities have been outlined by various groups which require fundamental reflection on our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u203	A brief question about the assignment to the state committee. Would it be enough for the D66 Group to say that this committee ensures that political commitment is achieved, in the sense that political guidance is given to the State Commission through the mandate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u204	I have to think about that, just as Mrs Duthler needs to think about my proposal. It has not yet responded to this. I propose not to do so now, but either between the first and second term or in the second term. As far as I am concerned, we do not leave it to the State Committee on how political engagement is organized, but we ourselves say that this is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u205	The question is: do we leave that form to the state committee or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u206	I wouldn't be in favour of that. I do not think that we should start giving up political guidance by saying that you can express your opinion on this. No, we have to try that ourselves. If you propose "state committee, we add a sounding board" it could be a beginning to the fact that this Chamber itself declares that a political commitment or political participation has been organised in advance. I have the impression that I will not read the last page completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u207	We are almost in injury time and still have a number of speakers to attend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u208	It's a good thing we're getting some clarity about a few things now. Mr De Graaf has said something about the state committee, which he would like. My question to him is: would you agree with an assignment such as we have heard earlier from the VVD, which outlines a number of trends and asks the State Commission to examine their significance for our parliamentary system? That's where the analysis would take place. Is that enough for you or do you want another kind of assignment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u209	I should like to conclude with that. My proposal is that Mr Kuiper should come back when I have spoken my last words and then decide whether he still wants to ask the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u210	I have a question about the shape of the sounding board group. A sounding board group does not bind. How do you see the bonding of that sounding board group? If you do want to be associated with a parliamentary committee, you are actually excluding the debate in society on what is considered important in the citizens' view in the context of electoral reform. That could easily be a problem if you set up such a closed parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u211	But surely it will not be the case that in Mr Verheij's party the debate, for example on the electoral programme, is completely outside the public. That is what he seems to say: politics is closing itself down to citizens. That does not apply to my party, and I cannot imagine for his party either. This means that, in such a committee, we can very well have the debate with the citizens about the changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u212	It was about the closure of the committee which has to deal with the issues as you have pointed them out. There must be a form of bonding. That also means immediately excluding the outside world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u213	No, I really think that's a curious representation of things. A parliamentary committee - an interparliamentary committee, I would almost say - and/or a state committee - both have the same problem. One has to agree on this and there is a route ahead of it. Information is collected, opinions are collected and the debate can be held with society. Eventually there will be a discussion and a final weighing-up in the committee. In that the committee is no different from a state committee. Moreover, it will have to be seen whether the Parliament and the two constituent parts of the Parliament can also bear the conclusions of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u214	Finally, Mr Verheijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u215	Then I have understood you better and it is really a broad public debate, which is led by such a parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u216	The term "wide social discussion" always makes me a little tickle. There are such bad examples, which have always led to grief and disappointment. So let us not use that word. At least I won't take it in the mouth soon. I have said that there is increasing interdependence between the European and the Dutch legal systems. Democratic decision-making on this issue is an important issue. I would also like to mention the tense relationship between the legislative and executive powers on the one hand and the judiciary on the other. In our country, it is still not possible for the courts to review legislation in accordance with the Constitution, even though it may reflect the same legislation in international treaties. Mrs. Duthler's party also wants to deny the judge the latter. I hope she does not want to make that impossible proposal from her party colleague, Taverne, into the commitment of the state committee. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the relationship between formal state democracy and the dynamics in society, which is increasingly based on rapid involvement and active participation in concrete control, in neighbourhoods, projects and changing alliances, partly away from the formal frameworks of participation and representation. How do we deal with that? Can we build bridges between the active attitude and willingness of people to contribute concretely and closely to society on the one hand and their absence in the formal political democratic circuits on the other? Are forms of direct control, in addition to representative democracy, sufficient answers to this? We must also give information and communication technology a logical place in our state system. Moreover, bringing parliamentary democracy to its own time should also mean that the instruments of both Chambers are available. The equipment, so to speak, is being adapted. We really have something to gain from that. Okay, let's move on to the assignment. In terms of speaking time, I say that this is also an answer to Mr Kuiper's interruption. I said that we want to participate in an initiative. If the task was simply to look at the relationship between the two Chambers and see if the rule of trust should be in the Constitution, I would say, never mind. That is something we could try partly ourselves when it comes to working methods and culture. Mr Kuiper has made suggestions for this, and I am not against it. But it must be a broad task. If that is not the case, it will remain the physical conversion of our Parliament and we will leave it as it is. My group understands the desirability of stability in the government system. As far as we are concerned, issues such as electoral thresholds can all play a role. Fine, but it's more about the substantial assignment. In any case, the key element of this should be the link between the electorate and the mandate of the parliament and the place of political democracy in a modern communication society. In this context, I refer to the electoral system, the formation of power and the relationship between representative democracy and active civic participation. Under this condition we would like to cooperate and talk further, and perhaps in the second term find a solution for a task and form that can get broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u217	Thank you, that was four and a half minutes more work, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u218	Thank you for your leniency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u219	We have on schedule a suspension from 1700 to 19.00 for dinner break. However, I would like to conclude the first period of the debate. Technically, we could do that in a good half an hour. Then we can suspend around 6 p.m.; not until 7 p.m., but until 7.30 p.m. Unless you're all saying you'd like to suspend now. However, I think it would be better to finish the first term. I note the agreement of the Chamber. I call Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u220	Mr. Chairman. As for everyone else this afternoon, the question for me is: is it sensible to seek a state committee to assess the functioning of our parliamentary democracy and possibly to make changes to it? Of course, things don't always go as they should. But perhaps at the moment one of the biggest problems is the way in which politics is dealing with each other at the moment; the harsh tone in the debates where insults are almost part of it. Perhaps the new President of the House of Representatives will be able to do something about this, because that is without doubt at least partly the cause of the dislike of politics in general and perhaps also of the derailments of the social debate in general here and there in the country. You can't solve problems like that with a state committee. One might think that the fragmentation of the political landscape and the volatility of voting behaviour and therefore the fact that a government cannot easily acquire majorities are a practical problem. And one may feel that the vote of discontent, which is indeed felt in the country, is a sign that parliamentary democracy is no longer capable of expressing the will of the people and therefore no longer functioning sufficiently democratically. But precisely this volatility and, for example, the growth of the PVV, under the influence of what is happening to us in Western Europe and of what happened in Cologne, also point to the fact that democracy is still being used to exert pressure. That is, I say with Mrs Van Bijsterveld, democracy. By the way, alternatives to this are sometimes put forward, such as not so long ago, for example, Van Reybrouck's to create a form of direct democracy by giving advice or even having decisions taken by random citizens designated by lottery tickets. A nice idea, but as a system really inferior to the representative democracy such as the West that has developed over the last 200 years. But always useful and even necessary is of course listening to groups of people who are willing to think along about politics, the design of society. Today's digital resources give us a lot of opportunities. The Rathenau Institute has reminded us of this once again. To find useful forms for this, possibly also in the way of Van Reybrouck, can be seen as a task, but I would not think directly of a state committee. In fact, a lot of things happen spontaneously, so it is especially important to be attentive from a political point of view. It is therefore important to be careful that the sounds from the organized public influence do not lead to a unilateral influence of parliamentarians, who sometimes easily leave their ears hanging. All good opportunities also offer risks. A referendum is also a form of direct democracy, a heavy and expensive form, a form which has all kinds of objections, but which is practically applicable, compatible with the basic system of representation, and can be used in everything that turns out to be controversial. In Switzerland, decisions are taken through referenda which are not always to my liking and which also cause great problems in Switzerland, but the system seems to keep the Swiss people well in the democratic lesson. We are experimenting now, albeit with consultative referenda, but at least we are on our way now that the first practical case has arrived. Moreover, I would like to stress that in this form of referendum, politics cannot shift its own responsibility to the electorate's statement. For me, however, the question remains as to whether it would be wise for the policy to shuffle that responsibility with the choice of a binding referendum. In any case, this is a political choice with fairly clear advantages and disadvantages, and so we do not really need a state committee to do so either. Then there's the fragmentation of politics. A system in which smaller minorities also have the opportunity to make their voices heard in the representative bodies, is Dutch tradition and a characteristic of our compromise culture: taking everyone into account. That can be difficult, and sometimes even painful, and I think so, now and then, but it does, even in spite of the significant shifts that have taken place recently in the electorate's preferences, lead to a fairly stable political common denominator, from which practical political decisions must arise. The fact that a government has to look for majorities then automatically works in the right direction. In Denmark, minority governments are constantly in power. These parties' own views are very clear, but so is the need for compromise. It's about our situation, but even more extreme, and it works. With us, the search for majorities focuses on the Upper Chamber. This is based on an error of assessment at the start of this cabinet, but in view of what I have just said, I do not think it is a disadvantage, but perhaps an advantage. The position of the First Chamber is, of course, regularly under attack as such, the way in which it is chosen, or its existence as such. For me, the usefulness of the First Chamber is beyond doubt: an extra check on the work of the highly topical House of Representatives is harmless. Especially as long as the judge is not allowed to review the law against the Constitution, that additional control is also needed. To change the latter, proposals are sometimes put forward, but so far they have been stranded. So there too a state committee will not be able to do much. For my party, however, there is still a reason to be in front of the institution of First Chamber. In fact, the First Chamber is still the continuation, albeit not historically direct, of the States-General in the old Republic of the Netherlands. A meeting in which the provinces are represented, then as sovereign regions, now still as sending agencies, by the various states of the provinces acting as voters. I'd like to call them voters. In practice, this relationship between voters and elected representatives is not very noticeable, and the band is not very direct either, because it is voted on by national parties. But this system does allow us to choose the voice of the sending regions more explicitly than is currently the case in this national parliament. Part-interest is not a matter of general interest, but it has to be taken into account. The First Chamber lends itself to this in the current structure. This also requires no state committee, but only an open eye for what is happening inside, but certainly outside the Randstad. Finally, as far as the Upper House is concerned. It appears very difficult to allow local and provincial interests represented by local and provincial parties to seep to the national level, while these parties have certainly become a major power at local level. The fact that the electoral system for the First Chamber allows for limited scope for this is, of course, included, but that space will remain limited, because the Randstad will always dominate because of its population weight. To change that, a radical intervention in our centrally-controlled unitary state should be considered. In that case, a state committee could be very useful. However, as long as an order in this direction is not yet obvious, a state committee appears to me, on balance, as not very useful. If there is a state committee or a committee from the Chambers, which I might prefer, then we will weigh the results with great interest and with a positive attitude. But right now, the whole exercise doesn't seem to be of much use.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u221	Madam President. Selective shopping in the law of the state, which does not fit in at all with the Stately Reformed Party. Nevertheless, I find that feeling somewhat in the wake of this debate, namely a quote that I read somewhere: 'the burden of the cabinet that must be understood by opposition parties in order to gain sufficient support in the States General, the First Chamber in particular'. If something's tricky, then you're gonna have to get rid of it? The question is whether that is wise. You know, the SGP wants Bible-standardized politics in the democratic rule of law. For us, the Bible is the norm and democracy. From this position, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is looking at this debate on a possible state committee to be set up. Well, our state system consists of a historically grown, balanced whole of power and counterpower. The removal of a part of the counterpower will have to be very well argued, because the practice shows that changes do not always prove to be fruitful. Think of abolishing the King's role in the cabinet formation. The SGP believes the royal road wasn't that crazy. In fact, if that route had been followed at the formation, there might not have been a debate about a State Commission now. So now we are struggling with a task assignment and there is only a problem statement note, formulated by former colleague Hermans. I have already complimented him on his agility, because he was right to note that it was not an easy task, because every movement to the right or left caused a counter-movement. Eventually, he managed to leave a note, but still no job assignment. That is why the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats takes the trouble-making note as a guide, hoping that this debate will lead to a proper definition of a possible problem and then decide whether or not this Chamber considers it necessary to set up a state committee. The problem statement raises the main question of whether the Dutch parliamentary system should be improved in order to keep it future-proof. That question is approached from seven angles. I'm gonna walk by them a little bit. The first is whether European decision-making should have consequences for our state system. Of course, European cooperation involves taking mutual account of each other, but in my view the adjustment of the state system to Brussels' order is unnecessary and undesirable. This does not require a state committee, but clear legislation. In this context, the Van der Staaij initiative proposal, which is currently under discussion in the Upper House, is a good example. It calls for a two-thirds majority to be required for the adoption of European treaties. An interesting second point is the increased electoral volatility or, in plain Dutch, the flexibility of the electorate or, to put it another way, the fickleness of the citizens. I think everyone in this house is very happy with that volatility as long as it moves towards its own party. It will only become problematic if its own voters become mobile, but that cannot be a reason to set up a state committee. The third issue is the question of the democratic legitimacy of the First Chamber. Should there be another way of election and, if so, what does that mean for the functioning of the two-chamber system? A new way of electing the First Chamber will only work politically, just as happened when the possibility of list connections was abolished. I believe that the steps taken by the elections give the First Chamber a total identity of its own. This relatively independent position is actually becoming more and more valuable as the House of Representatives, under the pressure of media and public opinion, increasingly reacts to the delusion of the day. A certain considered and thought-out correction in respect of the House of Representatives is extremely valuable and effective, as long as the House of Representatives adheres to its peculiar task: to review laws on legality, enforceability and enforcement. This also affects the fourth aspect of the note, the question of improvements in the legislative process and the optimisation of parliamentary decision-making. I would like to be cautious on this point. My first steps in this house have hardly been taken, so I cannot give a full opinion on this. However, I did run into one point in that short period of time, namely the new possibility of a referendum, a change which is already quite often a major problem, in itself procedurally. The fifth point concerns the desirability of defining more clearly the responsibilities of the two chambers in the formation of government. I can be brief on that. I have already indicated that the SGP would like the king to have an order-making role in this process if necessary, but I do not think it is necessary to set up a state committee for the two chambers on this point. Is it not one of the beautiful features of our state system that it consists of a set of written and unwritten state law? In my group's view, this does not fit in with a kind of codification of our unwritten state law, which is precisely the good thing that it can adapt to changing circumstances. The sixth question is a very important one. If there were to be a change in the two-chamber system, what would that mean for a possible constitutional review? This brings up the old debate on constitutional review by the judge. We will see what is going on with the Halsema initiative proposal, which, moreover, involves a limited judicial review. I noticed that Mr Van Boxtel said at the time during the General Political Reviews of 14 October 2014 that the First Chamber could leave if you organize the constitutional review. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers this to be too short a turn, and a lack of recognition of the wider tasks of the First Chamber. In addition, there are examples that the Senate carried out the constitutional review very strongly. In this respect, I would like to mention the contributions of various parties, including D66, to this House on the question of ritual slaughter. Finally, as a seventh point, the question of whether the principle of trust, as the main rule of the parliamentary system, should be enshrined in the Constitution. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats sees no reason to do so. That would only make sense if the Lower House elections were directly linked to the First Chamber elections, or if one of the two Chambers were to disappear, but that is not the issue for either of us. It is wise to consider the principle of trust in the composition of a new cabinet in the full width of both Chambers. Again: unwritten state law that works well in practice. Each single point of this problem statement note is easy to brush away, you might say. The dynamics, or the dynamite, are in the combinations of the points. For example, the SGP group strongly warns against using the argument of volatility in combination with other points. Suppose that the combination of points would lead to the elimination of, for example, the First Chamber, and suppose that then there is a fierce theme in election time; let's call a theme like refugees. This could lead to a unilateral or unbalanced election of the only remaining Chamber, which could then exercise some sort of unlimited power. It is precisely the counterweight of another Chamber that brings balance, dampening relations, attention to minorities. That is the strength of democracy: the majority decides with regard to the minority. Well, today's debate should lead to a conclusion on a possible state committee to be set up. But let's keep the right order. Some time ago we talked about the particular format of this debate. A motion might be tabled in the course of this debate. However, let us not let the Chamber fall into some sort of trap. First, a ruling is needed on the desirability of setting up a state committee. If the majority does not need it directly, this Chamber must have the courage to say: we are stopping the route to a state committee. In the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, however, an intermediate step is also conceivable. In this context, I would like to suggest a sound opinion, for example from the Council of State; but Mr Kuiper and Mr De Graaf have also mentioned interesting options. I'm rounding up. People are hearing the scepticism of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats when it comes to setting up a state committee. However, when this Chamber considers it necessary, and when the debate or possibly a further opinion of the Council of State or other committee delivers a task carried out by a majority of the two Chambers, the SGP is naturally willing to participate fully in it. Why? Because the Political Reformed Party believes that the government as a servant of God should be carefully designed by people who have an eye for the democratic rule of law, secured in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u222	Mr. Chairman. What does the First Chamber really want with the First Chamber, asked nrc.next this morning, and the confusion that speaks out of that question may we take ourselves to heart. During its history, the First Chamber has not only reaped praise and appreciation. Groen van Prinsterer called her "a failed copy after an English model" and Thorbecke called the First Chamber "without land and without purpose" in 1840. Others were more positive. Dark Curtius motivated legitimacy with the statement that the task of the First Chamber lay "not in the creation of good, but in the prevention of evil." Mr Kuiper mentioned these examples earlier this afternoon, but I do think they are very inspiring to the task we are facing today: to prevent the so-called better being the enemy of good, and to be aware of the fact that the lack of public confidence in politics does not result from the way in which our parliamentary system is organized, but from the way in which politicians think they have to translate the voice of the citizen into an agreement over and over again of conflicting forms of cooperation that citizens do not see fit. The debate on parliamentary reform is not new. In the 1960s and 1970s there was plenty of discussion about political renewal. The De Jong cabinet established the State Commission-Cals/Donner in 1967. As a result, the Den Uyl cabinet issued a note on the Constitutional Reform in 1974. Only a minority of the State Committee had voted in favour of abolishing the First Chamber and the Cabinet did not want to decide. However, the cabinet proposed that the First Chamber be elected directly from now on, that the First Chamber be deprived of the budget right and that the term of office be limited to four years. Both the direct election and the withdrawal of budget law met with major objections from a Dutch parliament majority. The result of the 1983 Constitutional Review was that the term of office and the manner in which the First Chamber was elected were changed. The term of office was four instead of six years and all provinces would now elect the First Chamber members at the same time. As a result, the First and Chambers of Parliament became more competitive in composition and interests. In this context, the question is whether there is a need for a discussion on the political construction of our parliamentary system and whether a state committee is the right means to do so, or whether it is sufficiently equipped to contribute to solving problems that colleagues have identified today. First of all, there is discussion about the gap in public-political confidence and the lack of support in society for political parties, of which no more than 2.5% of the population is a member. For my group, it is very much a question of whether this problem requires a state committee to examine the role of the First and Second Chambers in the parliamentary system. As the VVD points out, this is a broad reform of the system and not just about the role of the Upper House. Whoever puts his ear inside and outside this house knows that there are doubts about the motives of the initiators. The discussion is a direct result of the 2012 cabinet formation. Then the negotiators of the two big winners, VVD and PvdA, thought rather lightly about the lack of a majority in the First Chamber. Soon it appeared necessary to involve other parties in important matters in the Lower House that could help the coalition to a majority in the Senate. In 2013 the initiator Loek Hermans was still very clear about an investigation into the role of the Senate during the General Political Reviews. He said, "There's an elephant in this room, and we need to talk about it sometime." We in the Animal Party believe we have a certain right in this, not for reasons of clientelism, but because we consider elephant interests as much as those of humans. The future of the First Chamber would be linked to the fact that the First Chamber would have become more political and it would be difficult for the coalition to forge majorities. What does our Chamber mean in the short term? Nothing, because based on the results of the past, it may take a long time before any committee is formed and comes up with conclusions. Then there is the question of whether these conclusions will be taken on board. The results of previous state committees are significant in this respect: the Cals/Donner Committee in 1971 advocated an elected Prime Minister and the Biesheuvel Committee in 1985 for an elected mayor. Do you see anything from an elected Prime Minister or an elected mayor on the horizon? The most recent opinions on the parliamentary system, from the 2006 National Convention, were equally less likely. The recommendations for the First Chamber give the Senate the right to return legislative proposals to the Second Chamber and change the electoral system in such a way that the Provincial States elect half of the First Chamber members every three years. The current problems, such as the gap in public-political confidence and the lack of support in society for political parties, require self-reflection rather than a system review as far as my group is concerned. There should be more time for that in this house of reflection. That is at the heart of the problems of our parliamentary democracy. A state committee cannot have any role and significance in this respect as far as the Party for Animals is concerned. There is profit to be gained by explaining that citizens no longer feel related to politics. However, that statement will not come from a state committee, but from self-reflection. There was a period when parties could be sure of support. We know, the confessional block, the social democratic block and liberal block. Citizens are currently looking for alternatives on the flanks, because they no longer feel represented by the parties their parents and grandparents traditionally felt represented by. With a state committee that's gonna think about system reform, we're not gonna change anything. We're gonna lose time with it, at most, time we don't have! It is a solution of the level: it is now five to twelve, let's put the clock back, then we can sleep an hour longer. Setting up a state committee is a waste of time in a parliamentary democracy in injury time. Something must be done without delay. What needs to be done is to ourselves, not to a state committee. Improve the functioning of parliament, start with yourself. Start with ourselves. It is like a family fighting each other out of the tent and proposing an architect and a contractor to solve the problems through a renovation of the house, instead of seeking a solution in the relationships between the family members. If a house is divided into itself then no remodeling, at most behavioral therapy for the residents. Let us look at how we deal with each other and the instruments at our disposal. Let me give you an example. My group recently made it clear in the discussion of the Nature Protection Act that a number of parties in this House did not want to support a number of motions from the Party for Animals. It would be wrong, under state law, to ask for a novelle in motion, as the Chamber would thus materially claim the right of amendment. However, in 2012 a motion by member Essers of the CDA on a novella to arrive at a split of the rental tax 2013 of the following years (33407, no. F) supported by all parties in the Upper Chamber except D66. The latter party was therefore the only party to have the right to speak on this point. I would like to raise this point because I would like to call on you to step away from challenging each other with occasional arguments rather than considering a system review now. 55% of the Dutch population believe that citizens should have more influence on policies, for example through referenda. This call for more participation seems to be the result of discontent. Many Dutch people think that politicians do not listen enough and are too focused on their own interests and wonder if politicians do know what lives in society. When 400,000 citizens ask for a referendum on the Association Treaty with Ukraine and the Cabinet takes a long nose to those citizens by saying that the Treaty that has not yet been ratified would have entered into force, politics is calling for disgust and resistance from citizens. In addition, there is little to choose for the citizen. According to sociologist Willem Schinkel, existing parties differ far too little from each other and do at most problem management. Maybe the exception is the Party for Animals, he says. In order to break this uniformity and give the electorate something to choose again, room is needed for renewal. An electoral threshold would be nothing but a sandbag that would prevent the established order from entering a messed-up party system that creates a gaping gap between the electorate and the elected. There must be more elegance in this house. Not among themselves in the corridors, that elegance is in this house well. I mean the elegance of the policy from the point of view of what great responsibility we have for matters that we should not make change from. Citizens' confidence has fallen to a low point. It's not those citizens, it's us politicians. There is no need for a state committee to establish that. Transfer of powers to an undemocratic government in Brussels, ensures that the States-General degrades itself to the provincial states of Europe. State committees cannot offer solutions to this either. Our present parliamentary system exudes simplicity. We have three levels of government: the Empire, the province and the municipality. Not very complicated and all of a democratic signature. When each layer re-examines what tasks belong to its domain and nobody doubles or pulls on too big pants, this system can simply last another 200 years. As far as we are concerned, therefore, more than enough time has been devoted to the plan for a state committee, a plan which we cannot count on our support. There are more important problems, in the world and in parliament. In the words of Marc Chavannes, columnist of The Correspondent: in times of crisis, you should not mortify the institutions, but ensure that they survive and embody the much-needed bit of unity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u223	The fact that there are important problems in the world has never been a good excuse for leaving something less important. That is the first point. Does the Animal Party think that current political democracy is working well? I don't get the impression from your speech. What is the fundamental hesitation in setting up a committee to try to improve it together? It seems as if you are saying: it is all wrong, but the setting up of a state committee is most wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u224	Thank you very much for this question. I can stress it just as well now. I do not deny that there are a lot of problems, even more so, we are calling daily for them to be brought to the attention of the public and resolved. A request has now been made for the setting up of a state committee in which you can ask yourself the reasons for this in the first instance. We do not see a direct reason for setting up a state committee if it is only about the Upper House. We must first examine ourselves, and I feel that throughout the debate we are discussing what exactly are the problems that exist. I have heard many colleagues talk about civic participation and the confidence gap. I've been talking about this myself. Only then will we see what means we are going to use to solve the problems. I think that's the right order. You didn't hear me say I have something against the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u225	I have heard Mrs Teunissen say quite a lot about what is not right. I know that the Animal Party is for forms of direct democracy and for more opportunities for voters. Then participate actively and make sure that you influence the assignment and the composition of the state committee! Instead of concluding that a committee that is going to seriously consider these problems and make proposals for solutions is the last thing you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u226	This debate is about the state committee. It is not up to a state committee to solve the problems that lie ahead. It's up to us to see if we can solve it. A committee within this house or within the Lower House could be an option. However, we are now talking about a state committee. I would like to say that we want to put the state committee aside, because we believe that the problems should be solved in a different way. First of all, we need to know what problems we are talking about. I conclude my speech. As far as we are concerned, more than enough time has been devoted to this plan for a state committee. My group says no to the state committee and no to the pushing forward of problems that live within our parliamentary system. These problems do not call for a reform of the system, but for a different mentality. They're not asking for chords, they're asking for recognizable ideals. There is also a world to be won in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u227	I'm gonna take a look at the clock. I'm suspending the meeting until 7:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u228	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to all Members and all the spokesmen for their contribution to this debate. Although the VVD Group has sparked this debate, it has also ensured that at least the spokesmen in the recess have already done a lot of work. It is good to see that all the groups take this issue so seriously. I welcome the fact that the issues of citizen involvement, electoral volatility and the influence of European decision-making are widely shared. I can say a lot about it, but there has also been a lot of interruption and exchange. My group has prepared and would like to table a motion. Here's what I'm gonna say. If this motion is adopted and if the majority of the House of Representatives also very much wants this committee to be established, the starting point must be, also for the House of Representatives, that what we are going to do is based on what we have agreed here in this Chamber. The President shall: Mr Duthler, Mr Huijbregts-Schiedon, Mr Verheijen, Mr Barth and Mr Beuving proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the Dutch citizen aspires to be more involved in policy and politics, according, inter alia, to research by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau;]] [[the increasing importance of European decision-making for the parliamentary function and its shaping for both chambers of the States-General;]] [[many tasks have been decentralised to other public authorities in recent years;]] [[electoral volatility has increased significantly;]] [[digitalisation and social media clearly affect the nature of representative democracy and the functioning of the parliamentary system;]] [[consideration of the election, tasks, position and functioning of the parliamentary system and democracy in the light of the above considerations;]] [[expresses its opinion that it is desirable, in consultation with the House of Representatives, to request the Government to set up a State Committee to answer the question of whether the parliamentary system is sufficiently future-proof in the light of these considerations and, if necessary, to make proposals for adjustments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u229	Mrs. Duthler was kind enough to pass the motion. We've been able to read along. I have two questions for her. My group's support depends on the answer to these questions. Can I understand from the operative part, which states 'whether the parliamentary system is sufficiently future-proof', that it is a question of parliamentary democracy? I ask this in order to avoid that the weather can only be interpreted as that limited question about the relationship between the two Chambers and between the Chamber and the Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u230	May I answer this question, Madam President? The answer is yes. It is not just about the functioning of the two Chambers of the States General, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u231	That's important. Especially since Mrs Duthler has just indicated that she believes that the authentic interpretation of what the state committee should do is taking place here in this Chamber. That's part of it. What I am really missing in this motion is that the second point is a political sounding board group. This has been said not only by me, but also by others. If this point does not appear in the motion, I will not be in favour of the motion. I would ask Mrs Duthler, also in view of the formation of a majority in this Chamber, to add this. I am not going to amend the motion, which is up to Mrs Duthler, but it should be words in the sense that 'the state committee can also be accompanied by a political sounding board composed of both chambers'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u232	I'll have some questions about that. In response to such a political sounding board group or whatever we're going to call it, I think it's the D66 Group's concern that there's a connection with Parliament. But the question that comes up is how are we going to put together that sounding board group? Does each group have a representative in such a sounding board group? Is such a sounding board group going to take decisions by a two-thirds majority or by a simple majority? What will be the tasks and powers? Is that group a parishioner? There's still a few hooks and eyes on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u233	I don't think that's too bad with those hooks and eyes. Moreover, it is a sounding board and not a political decision-making machine. So you don't have to think of two thirds of majorities. What is discussed in the sounding board group will be useful to the state committee. In such a case, I assume that the committee will produce an interim report and see whether proposals that live in its bosom can count on any support. The composition of members of both Chambers can be arranged in consultation between First and Second Chambers. I don't think that's something we should decide in the First Chamber, because I'm having trouble speaking for the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u234	My group is critical of this, and I would like to express myself with caution. A question that I have again, is whether that is a committee that is composed after the Dutch Parliamentary Elections of 2017 or before? What about the mandate? If that committee is already set up...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u235	I have a feeling you're a little rebellious, but nevertheless, I'm trying to help you out a little bit. Unless you believe that the state committee may not start until after the Lower House elections, but I would think that is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u236	No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u237	So at the start of the state committee, there is also a political sounding board group that talks with that state committee and can talk to the state committee about the planning of work. Gradually the work of the state committee keeps that sounding board group in touch with the state committee, also speaking with that committee, also in a political sense. That's what I'd like. As far as the composition is concerned, you can think of one Member per political party represented in both Chambers, which can be a Member of Parliament and a Member of Parliament. I myself would attach great importance to a strong political mandate, for example the chairmen of the political groups. But that is a matter that can be discussed further between the two chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u238	Is that something that can be left to the State Commission itself? In the end, it must ensure that it comes up with an analysis of the relationship with Parliament and its citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u239	Anything's possible. But if you want to get the support of my group, I think that this Chamber should give a ruling on this, so that it is clear to the House of Representatives that this Chamber wants to do so and that it is not a matter that is suddenly lost somewhere in the bosom of the State Committee. That is a great risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u240	This motion is here now. If anything else happens to it, we've got a whole different story to catch. I'm just saying that for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u241	But that also has to do with the fact that this is a special format of a meeting. We're not addressing the government right now, we need to agree. I would like to thank Mrs Duthler for drawing up this motion, which my group will also be able to support. But it is not an explanation of vote by the VVD, because other groups also have wishes. I support the motion for a resolution that a state committee should be set up and that, in order to maximise the chances of success, it should be represented by the Chamber at appropriate times. But that's not a state commission B. The state committee is a state committee, and it comes with proposals. But we need to keep in touch with Parliament, so that we do not have another state committee that comes up with nice things, but which will have no political effect. In view of the nature of this debate, I think it is reasonable for groups, responding to this motion, to indicate what wishes they have, so that the applicant is able to take stock of the situation and say: okay, I shall table a slightly modified motion in a third period. That is very important for my group. D66 and the SP together do not constitute a negligible quantity in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u242	Of course, there are many ways to keep up with Parliament. This does not necessarily need to be institutionalized in advance in a sounding board group. How do you imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u243	I think it's a good idea to point out that we want it this way. How it's gonna put itself into practice, we'll see. We know what the intention is. But when we say that it should be discussed with Parliament, we put the state committee in a difficult position, after all, it reports to government and parliament. If there are also debates with the Chambers in the meantime, it will become too complicated. That is why the format in which you talk about politics on occasion is important. But no misunderstanding: the state committee is leading. To increase success, a sounding board group is very useful. He's not gonna get together every week. At one point the sounding board group will be updated by the state committee. It seems to me that there is a compromise there. Then we'll have a lot of votes together. The Labour Party is so positive at the moment! If Mr Verheij says something about this, you may already be convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u244	No, Mrs Teunissen has the floor. Following.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u245	Mrs Duthler had questions about the composition of such a parliamentary sounding board. She also had some questions about its design. What exactly is this state committee supposed to look like? What should be the composition of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u246	At the end of my first term, I indicated that such a state committee should consist of former politicians, such as state law scholars, politicians and people with a lot of knowledge of ICT and social media.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u247	Does Mrs Duthler now claim that these former politicians are independent? How does she see that when it comes to independent experts and former politicians? How does Mrs. Duthler combine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u248	Well, former politicians, of course, have the experience and sufficient distance from daily politics. They do have the relevant experience they bring to such a state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u249	Finally, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u250	I have no doubt that former politicians have experience. I just want to point out that there are questions about the design of a state committee, so that we do not have to move a parliamentary committee in advance. We need to think further about the design of such a sounding board group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u251	We support Mr De Graaf and Mr Kox's request. Actually, we'd like to help the VVD spokesperson a little bit. For I would like to repeat that Loek Hermans' note, which is the basis of this idea, states that the involvement of the political groups in the Second and First Chamber must be guaranteed in order to ensure success. In my opinion, the VVD shouldn't have much trouble with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u252	No, but that does not mean that the involvement of parliamentarians must necessarily take the form of a sounding board group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u253	As a result, we think it is important that such a state committee does not work in a back room, whether or not it is supplemented by a sounding board group. In the commission to such a state committee, we must state that, where we want the transparency of politics to be increased by the results of such a committee, the preparation of the opinions of such a committee takes place in public and in full transparency. We do not want to leave this to what the committee has come up with. We also want to see that reflected in the mission. We make great demands on the way in which the committee does its work, so that transparency and involvement of people in society who want it are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u254	I'd be very much in favour of that. Of course, it is not intended that this state committee should be given an assignment, locked up in a room and, over time, will come out again when there is white smoke. I assume that the committee itself will ensure that the involvement of citizens and of politics is adequately secured. I can imagine, for example, that it will launch a website on which citizens can express their ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u255	If we can imagine it all, it would be nice to say a few words about it in the motion or in the commissioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u256	I have two points. My first point is about that sounding board group. In the meantime, I am no longer quite clear what that sounding board group should mean and how it should function. I hope that Mr De Graaf will be able to clarify this later in his term, because I think there is already some difference of opinion on this matter. My second point is more procedural. Before Mrs Duthler tabled the motion, she said that this state committee should only be there as far as she is concerned if perhaps I quote wrongly, the House of Representatives hears what has been said, expressed and adopted in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u257	This applies as a starting point to prevent the House of Representatives from having a similar debate, which would result in a completely different task, which would actually mean that we have nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u258	Suppose the House of Representatives thinks of something else or says that she really doesn't like it at all, then it has to come back to someone. Who's that? Who is going to judge whether or not the request for a state committee is going to proceed? How does Mrs Duthler see that procedurally?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u259	Then we don't have a state committee, I'd say. Then we'll keep ping-ponging endlessly. That doesn't work, of course. Then we are going to have the debate here and then again. Perhaps that alone indicates the need for such a state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u260	Or not, because that would actually mean putting the House of Representatives on hold by saying: this whole debate is coming, there is a motion coming and so you have to accept it, otherwise there will be no state committee. Fine, if that's the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u261	Well, that's pretty much what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u262	I would like to join in this exchange of views. I would like to ask the VVD to do the House of Representatives justice and to give her every opportunity to decide for herself what her vision is and how she is involved in formulating the role of the State Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u263	That's different. The further design must, of course, be done in consultation with the House of Representatives, but I would no longer question that we are now saying that a state committee should be set up, in view of these considerations, with this request to the government and with this question. We'll make that statement as First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u264	Since we are also saying that it must be about the whole parliamentary system and about political democracy, it seems obvious to me that there can be another view on this and that it is up to the Presidents of the two Chambers to exchange it and to see what the final wording can be. Then the committee's independence can get the full pound when it comes to the question of what the committee itself does, how it regulates its work and how politics, which ultimately has to give an independent political opinion on the final conclusions of the committee, will be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u265	We are now taking a first step. Many subjects need further deepening, as we have seen today. I say that the starting points we are discussing and defining today are also the starting points for the follow-up. If we go back to questioning these principles, of course, we will never get anywhere. That is how you take my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u266	This Chamber then makes a clear statement, in the hope that it will succeed, with the comments made earlier. The government has already said that it will set up a state committee if this Chamber so wishes. Then it goes to the House of Representatives. She was asked whether she could imagine the considerations and the desire to set up a state committee with a sounding board. If the House of Representatives is okay with that, that committee will be there. If the House of Representatives says that it still has a few amendments or comments, it will come back here and we will have to assess whether we think that is sufficient or insufficient and whether we can live with them or not. That's obvious. Is that how we're supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u267	I can imagine, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u268	However, it is now up to us to move forward. The VVD has indicated its initial position. The other groups have done the same. We have heard what a few groups think about this. I would have thought that the Labour Party might also say something to help Mrs Duthler to put it so that we can get out. In order not to remain endless in this discussion, it would be nice if Mrs Duthler would say: I have heard the Chamber; I will, perhaps in a third period, make a proposal to amend the motion accordingly. Then we can do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u269	I can imagine that we would include in the motion something similar about Parliament's involvement in the work of such a committee. However, the form in which this will take place must not be poured into concrete. It's not about the form, it's about the involvement. Furthermore, Parliament must not want to have any control over the content until it itself has its turn in the debate on the results of the State Committee, because that is what I am talking about. It's about the state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u270	As I have just said, the state committee is the state committee. It will eventually be given the mandate of the government and it will do what is proposed. I think "soundboard group" is a good word for what we mean. If Mrs Duthler knows a better word for it, I'm fine with it. The point is that we think it is important that the committee should not only operate as a committee, but that it should keep in touch with Parliament. "Cloudboard group" is a nice description. If Mrs Huijbregts knows a more modern term, then it is also good, but it is important that we at least know what we are talking about. We do not mean by that that we are going to debate with two Chambers and that the state committee should debate with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u271	That's unworkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u272	Right. If we agree on this, I suggest that Mrs Duthler take something in that form. If she is a little more creative, I think Mr De Graaf and I will agree to that. If the words "group" and "two chambers" are included, then we are already coming a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u273	Or the words "involvement" and "Parliament"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u274	The term "involvement" says something about the institution and the term "group" says something about the form of organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u275	But then you're gonna institutionalize it. I don't think you should want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u276	We know that Mrs Duthler does not really want that, but there are other groups that appreciate it. Mrs Duthler's motion is great, but if she wants to get a majority for it, she still needs a few groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u277	Let me clarify the position of the Labour Party. We do not need that sounding board group. In my view, it is obvious that the State Committee should ensure that it makes proposals that can be supported. The search for contact with Parliament and the interim sharing of conclusions, or even the organisation of a social debate, are all matters that the State Committee itself can take care of. However, Mr De Graaf is saying that your group chairmen cannot put up with the task of revealing their position without having the freedom to make their own assessment at the time when it comes to it. I cannot imagine that my colleagues in the parliamentary group on the other side would be forced to sit in such a group if they did not feel like it. You can't make that happen from here. It is therefore up to the State Committee itself to arrange for it to have parliamentary and social support, given the views and directions it intends to develop. I therefore agree with what Mrs Duthler said: we should not want to deal with this here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u278	I understand you're done with your contribution, Mrs. Duthler. Thank you for that. One moment, because operating this panel is higher math. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has eight minutes' speaking time. It's very complicated to set that up. We did it. I give the floor to you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I'm sorry. Next time, it'll be ten times better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u279	I knew it would work out, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I have listened to this debate with a great deal of attention. The contributions were quite diverse, but also very interesting. They have produced the necessary food for thought, to put it in good Dutch. I will not repeat in this short second term the position I expressed in the first term. However, I would like to ask some of the participants in the debate a number of questions about the content and the need for a task for a possible state committee. In the first term, I noted that the ideas differed. I say explicitly: in the first term. It went from analysing trends without a need to come up with solutions, to... I particularly look at the spokesperson of the VVD Group, who is now very busy in conclave. I would therefore like to repeat it once again. So I noticed that the ideas about a possible mandate of the committee were quite different in the first term. It went from an analysis of underlying trends to an explicit analysis of the whole parliamentary system plus political democracy in the narrow sense, to a number of very specific questions to a state committee. I have a few more questions to ask, starting with Mrs Duthler. Does the submission of the motion mean that it has put aside the idea that only trends need to be analysed and solutions are not needed, and that it really wants to come up with something that the other spokesmen in particular have called for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u280	No, my group has not let go of anything. It wants a thorough analysis and, if necessary, proposals for adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u281	Agreed. I have heard a number of other proposals, including those of the Christian Union spokesperson. If I understand correctly, he proposed not to set up a state committee but to set up a First Chamber committee. That should be a purely internal committee, without the House of Representatives. I was not quite clear what exactly it should be about in that committee, what kind of problem analysis is behind it and what type of outcome that could produce. Maybe he can come back to these questions in the second term. Then I would like to address Mr De Graaf of D66. I couldn't help noticing that his analysis was very similar to the CDA contribution. The only difference is that Mr De Graaf wants to postpone the procedure by introducing a committee and that we want to start with concrete proposals. My questions to him relate to prioritisation and the choice he considers desirable. Do I understand that he prefers a state committee with a political shell around it? Or would he prefer to come to a heavy committee in which all the First and Second Chambers are represented? My second question is what type of analysis he thinks should be made and what type of questions he wants to ask the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u282	I think it would be wise for you to answer these questions in the event of interruption, otherwise it will go away from your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u283	I'll try to be brief. I've said before that the CDA sometimes thinks but doesn't act. So I always listen when the CDA says something. Sometimes thinking can even run in parallel. What is annoying is that there have never been any concrete proposals from the CDA for political or constitutional renewal. That is a relevant observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u284	Except maybe today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u285	Well, actually, not yet. I am thinking, for example, of the group chairman of the CDA, who once gave an extremely relevant reading, the Burgerzaallezing in Rotterdam. In it he made numerous proposals, about which nothing has ever been heard from the CDA again. I just want to say that thinking is fine, but acting is limited. Now to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's questions. Do I want to give an analysis to the state committee? No, but there are elements that I have identified in my contribution. Mrs Duthler's motion also contains a number of elements which give the state committee a good handle. These can be incorporated into the assignment, which should not be: do you want to answer these three questions? On the basis of your analysis, will you consider whether it is necessary to make proposals and, if so, make concrete proposals? That's very obvious. I've lost the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u286	The first question was which type of construction is preferred.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u287	That is what I said in the first term, so it is a bit of a question of Mrs Van Bijsterveld's familiar path. My proposal is to have this done by a political committee from both chambers. If this is not feasible, and this is not feasible from the various contributions, then my subsidiary preference is for a state committee to be set up and at the same time a sounding board or advisory group from the two Chambers of the States-General. He's got to keep in touch with the state committee. The State Committee can report in the interim on how progress is being made, it can review the analysis and perhaps consider whether there could be support for proposals. That's what I want. That is why I asked Mrs Duthler to include such a passage in the motion. That is relevant to my support for the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u288	I thank Mr De Graaf. In the first period, we have indeed said that what we think is going on, especially with the functioning of political democracy, is happening. We believe that this is primarily up to the representatives of the people themselves. In the slipstream of it, we have made some concrete proposals. My group would like to comment on the outcome of this debate... on the content, I really have to say, because so many results are not yet reflected. We are very curious about the reaction of the House of Representatives to the content of this debate, before we can express our minds in a broader sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u289	Mr. Chairman. Creativity cannot be denied to the CDA group in order to achieve what it wants, namely that there will be no state committee and the end of story. While we still have to conclude our debate, the House of Representatives is now being asked whether it will participate. I once argued in favour of using the United Assembly more often, but this is a little too much for me; this is too creative. We are having a debate here and we are taking a decision. The House of Representatives shall be informed thereof. Everyone understands that the House of Representatives will shed light on this. By the way, my contacts with the other side are good enough to know that what I'm saying here isn't leveled by Emile Roemer. I think he's okay with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u290	I notice that Mr Kox is reacting a little harshly. Let me remind you of the interrupting debate we just had. A very complicated type of ping-pong should take place between the Second and First Chambers in order to come up with a proposal for the terms of reference of the Committee. In that sense, it's not that strange. The interruption debate showed that it is necessary to inform the House of Representatives and, if she thinks otherwise, to let it come back to us. So it's a matter of timing: when do you do what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u291	I am a positive person, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I have, of course, spoken with our group across the street and I assume that all the spokesmen have contacts with their groups across the street. Otherwise, we would have had a different debate. We have to keep a political touch. That is one of the reasons why the State Committee has some political feeling. I note that the CDA has one commitment: it does not want it and tries to stir it up in a good relationship between most of the other groups. That's okay, but it doesn't seem so effective to me. I welcome the debate. I think it's been productive. It may not have been very well organized, but you still have the lead, Mr President. We have come within a limited time until the beginning of a request to set up a state committee. I think that's good. If we can get it done in one night, I would like to have been in this debate. I think Mrs Duthler's motion is quite in line with what has been put forward. There's still a bit more to be done, because you can't get everything you want, we've known since Mick Jagger that's sung us. I trust that a solution will be found. We agree that the spirit of Loek Hermans' note is such that Jan Nagel referred to the fact that there has to be a bondage or a connection with political reality in order to prevent us from setting up a state committee that sketches wonderful ideas and views that are not feasible. We also agree, I hope, that the state committee is the state committee, where Parliament is looking for an organised way of looking at the state committee and not at a way of instructing it. In my view, therefore, the conflict that Mr Verheijen outlined is not a real conflict. If there is no one from the PvdA who wants to sit in such a consultation group or sounding board group, we will find someone from another party, but I'm sure when it comes to it, the PvdA will be cooperative. I have not heard any objections from the PvdA to most of this debate, namely to initiate the discussion through the figure of the State Commission in order to allow the parliament itself to decide sovereignly. I hope that by the end of this debate, perhaps in a third period, Mrs Duthler will come up with a slightly modified proposal and that we will then be able to reflect on it in a week or perhaps two weeks and then vote on it and that we will not be able to come up with a new figure, because I would not be much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u292	Mr. Chairman. I'm glad we had this debate with each other. It's important, and it's a lot of thought. Consensus is now emerging on a particular proposal, of which at least four of the larger parties here say: we are going to do it approximately in this direction. For our group, however, the question is whether this is really the proposal that we could support. I really have to take that back in the group. We have started the debate a little differently. The reason for this debate was the debate on the role and position of the Upper House. There was then a discussion on the parliamentary system. Now we have a debate on a state committee with a mandate for the functioning of democracy. That's all gonna be really wide. We therefore ask ourselves, in a spirit of conscience, whether this is really the intention and whether this is the right signal. Our institutions must stand strong and have authority. We have opted for an approach whereby you try to strengthen the points that need to be strengthened. It is therefore also a question of how we can strengthen the parliamentary system on the basis of a number of specific questions. Well, there are no specific questions, which makes it a very broad approach, which was not entirely our commitment to this debate. So we will have to consider it. We are also very hesitant about too much political role for the State Commission. A state committee in the classic form is, of course, unambitious and non-political. If something is added to that from a sounding board group, even from group chairmen, then the political weight becomes very heavy. Even if it is minimized here, it will still work in such a way that the weight of group chairmen of large parties in the Lower House will continue to work in the way in which such a state committee operates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u293	I would remind Mr Kuiper that in the past state committees are made up of politicians, not former politicians but politicians. That was already the case before the war. I'm thinking Monsignor Nolens and Gerbrandy. They have all acted on state committees, while also performing a political function. So the distinction that Mr Kuiper makes, in the sense that it is quite different and that it should not come together, is certainly not based on historical facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u294	No, I am just saying that in this way there will be a state committee which will not be made up solely of non-official and non-political experts. There will then be a kind of political sounding board group that will be steering. I say this also from the position of a small party in the parliamentary system. Whatever proposals are put forward in the future parliamentary system, it is important that minorities hold a guaranteed and clear place within parliamentary democracy. Mr De Graaf will of course now say that it is an unfounded fear of me, but that is one of the reasons why I am very reluctant to support the proposal as it stands. There are interpretations of this by the parties which do go very far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u295	I will not fight what Mr Kuiper says, because that is his concern. I just want to say that there are no obvious majorities anymore and that any minority can, and sometimes must, form part of a majority formation. So in that respect, the position of small parties is no more fundamentally different from that of parties that are slightly larger. And very large parties no longer exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u296	We must be very careful about the institutions as they currently exist and also offer a certain guarantee of the position of smaller parties. The interpretations I have heard this afternoon and which are going to be linked to the mandate of the State Committee are very different; Mrs Van Bijsterveld really had a point there. They're really very different. As far as the SP is concerned, the outcome may be that there will be one Chamber. D66 comes up with other things. And so each one has its own thing and that will all be inserted into that process. That makes it a little complicated for us. Shouldn't anything happen? Of course something has to be done. I have already indicated in the first term that we are constructive in this. The way Parliament operates must certainly be kept under constant review. I made a first-term proposal to be practical with each other. Several spokesmen have said here that much can be improved and taken up within the existing frameworks. It is also up to us to take action on a number of issues in the area of further improving our parliamentary working methods. Would it not therefore be a good idea to go further and have something from a committee? In the past, we have also had a temporary committee looking at things. I think it is right for a committee to examine our working methods, possibly in the light of recommendations made in the many reports that have already been mentioned. I am thinking specifically of, for example, the question of what the extra dimension of European legislation means for the operation of the First Chamber, for the operation of a parliament that has always been tailored to the treatment of national legislation. Another point concerns Mr De Graaf's proposal; we have not actually had an opportunity to discuss it in detail today. What does it actually mean that we say here that the enforcement and feasibility of legislation is important in terms of the quality of legislation, when we do not actually give ourselves the tools to test it? In other words, how do we know that legislation is enforceable and enforceable? We cannot test that when we are the last body to look at a legislative proposal again. There are also ongoing proposals or thoughts on optimising the legislative process and process monitoring. You sometimes hear the complaint that laws come here so late that we therefore have so little time to treat them carefully and we certainly do not have any reflection on those laws anymore. I am also thinking of certain forms of research that we could add to our parliamentary instruments. I would be happy if we could take that up in the form of a committee, possibly in consultation with the House of Representatives, but at least for ourselves here in this house. I would like to see colleagues express their views on this idea in the course of the debate. Then I'd like to bring it into the Seniors' College.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u297	Mr. Chairman. I think I can be brief, because we can agree to the text of the motion tabled by the VVD in the second term. We note that there is living state law in the debate, because if I am right, we do not have the right of initiative. However, we are taking the initiative today. So we must also make this binding with the House of Representatives, otherwise it will not happen anyway, I estimate, despite the Prime Minister's commitment earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u298	I'm just a simple senator, but the right of initiative is something else. The right of initiative is the right to submit a legislative proposal. However, the Chamber states that it has a certain opinion. Even under King Willem I, we were allowed to have an opinion. What has been done with this is, by the way, a second point. We'll do something special; we'll agree on that. We also received government support for it. She said, "We'll let you do it." I also think that on the other side there will not be all kinds of groups saying: what are you doing? If we finish this debate properly, I think our colleagues across the street will say: we will look at it again and then we will give it our blessing. Then we can get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u299	I am pleased that Mr Kox, with his experience, has explained to me how it can be framed. I would like to put it against the view expressed by Mr De Graaf. He said that group chairmen should be obliged to cooperate. I thought that was a somewhat exaggerated expectation of how the other side would respond to an initiative being taken here. We also note that the independence of the State Commission must be guaranteed. If this can be done with a modified wording in the new text, then we are positive, but we are waiting for the final text before we give our final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u300	Mr. Chairman. I have two brief comments. Mr De Graaf argued for politicians. However, the VVD has opted for former politicians. That makes sense in itself, because the VVD has recently had a lot of work done by former politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u301	We support that choice of the VVD. My speech on the new media, digitisation and direct democracy is, I think, well formulated, in a certain way. We shall therefore present it positively to our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u302	Mr. Chairman. There are no directors present who I can thank for the answers, but I would like to thank colleagues for the interesting debate and for the exchange of views. To Mr Kox I say that the second line of Mick Jagger's lyrics is: if you try, you will get what you need. That is very appropriate in this case. I am confident that the VVD Group will look again at the motion tabled by Mrs Duthler and perhaps come up with an amendment which will allow that motion to obtain a majority in this Chamber. In view of the statements made by several colleagues, at least by myself, this is possible with a relatively limited change. Moreover, I think that once we enter that process and have such a sounding board or advisory group, or whatever you call it, it would be very wise and desirable for all parties to take part, if only because this is the time to keep their finger on the wrist and to bring their own ideas to the attention of the State Committee. The State Committee is not a political committee. She is an independent of the politically operating committee, but of course she has big ears that she can use when members of the sounding board say things. This could simply be about the mixed electoral system, on which Mrs Van Bijsterveld spoke so positively this afternoon in the first term. Finally, I would like to say the following in response to Mr Kuiper. I think it is very important to take a real look at a number of points. I also support Mr Kuiper's suggestion that the College of Seniors should look at what we can do ourselves through a special committee. One of these is the question of whether our instruments are sufficient. This is not just about the instruments of support for the political groups, but also about the Registry. We have excellent people at the Registry, but we do have a limited device. Other questions are: how do we control enforcement, how do we review the legislative process, how can we even better respond to the important European regulations and our position in them? These are all elements that would be discussed in such a committee. I hope that, if this is a specific derivative of this debate, we can also find a majority for it. So I'm hoping it'll be scheduled in the Seniors' College soon. If that is one of the outcomes and the other result is a fairly broad-based motion-Duthler c.s. If so, we will take important steps towards a hopeful beginning of any political change and innovation, which is urgently needed, if only because without any innovation each system erodes, even the best system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u303	Mr. Chairman. We, too, thank you for the fine debate in which we can have many exchanges of views. For our group, it is our view that if we are to participate in a state committee, this should be done on a broad basis in this Chamber. If we already reach a ratio of 38/37 in advance, that would be very lean and that would actually remove the basis from what we want to do. In this respect, we are looking with great interest at a possible modified version of the Duthler c.s. motion, from the point of view that we want to work properly to strengthen the legitimacy and involvement of citizens in our parliamentary democracy and our parliamentary system. We believe that support is important, and not only politically. Support in society is also important. We call for transparency in the establishment of a state committee and the way in which it will work. That is a test that the final products must be able to pass. We believe it is important that we renew our system where it should be, not because of renewal as such, but in order to remain on time and to be able to respond actively to what society requires of us. We would prefer the mandate to the State Committee to be formulated a little more clearly. I'm a little afraid that if you put it very openly, you'll have a debate in the House of Representatives that can fly in any direction. In this respect, we shall look carefully at the text of the motion of the VVD. Mr Kuiper came up with the proposal to look again at our own functioning and our own working methods. We are in principle sympathetic to that proposal. You should never let go of the opportunity to improve your own work. As far as we are concerned, the following applies to this too. Let us do it on the basis of a clear question and not on the basis of a too broad wording that can go from one direction to another. We are therefore looking forward to this proposal with a positive intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u304	Mr. Chairman. I am not very much in favour of appointing a state committee. A state committee is a highly formalized form of a think tank and, in my opinion, such a formalized think tank should focus mainly on formal changes in the structure and on the institutions with which we work. If you appoint such a committee, you have to ask yourself two questions. Does anything really have to change? And if the committee comes up with something, is it gonna make any difference? I tend to answer the first question that we do not really need institutional change at the moment. At least I don't have that need. If a think tank, like the state committee, is going to work, perhaps it will come up with things that are quite acceptable to me as an alternative to what we have now. But you still have to ask yourself if that's gonna work. Are we really gonna go through with it? Are we gonna go through with it? When it comes to institutional changes, history teaches us that there is an extremely low chance of something being continued. There are more practical ways of solving problems that are indeed there. These problems lie first and foremost in the need for the public to feel more that it can influence decision-making. This does not mean that formal decision-making needs to be changed, but that it needs to be done justice to feelings in large parts of the population. Those feelings need to be able to pass on. I think that is a more practical solution than starting a state committee. It is better to start with a committee, as proposed by Mr Kuiper, or rather as Mr De Graaf's first option was. As a parliament, let us first try to tackle that problem. As far as I'm concerned, we'll do that in front of the House of Representatives. How do we deal with that? In many cases, the question is how we deal with it practically and not with institutions. I prefer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u305	Mr. Chairman. It seems that innovation and change do not have a beneficial effect on decision-making processes. I am thinking of several things from the past: disabling the king, lifting the possibility of a list connection, setting up referendums. This should make us particularly careful with the task of a state committee to be set up if necessary. During the debate I was pleased that Mr Teunissen of the Party for the Animal Green of Prinster quoted. I will repeat the quote: "The Senate is the weak sister of the Second Chamber, deprived of moral strength and in a pitiful state. In addition, it is a "failed copy to an English model." That quote is, of course, from the nineteenth century. In the twenty-first century we might say that the First Chamber is no longer a weak sister, but a strong sister, caring and self-aware. From what I've heard today, it seems like there's a lot going on. When I read the motion, I thought: catering is still fine, but for the rest, the question is whether it will ever be okay. Apparently, however, there is no problem that is so pressing that anyone can point it out as the weak point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u306	So late in the evening, a little laughing is always good for the human soul, but I think almost all the groups have said that they are happy with the parliamentary system and democracy. I myself said that we are proud of what we have done. However, that is no reason to sit back and say that things will be going well in the future. There are many new challenges. Those are formulated in the motion. Mrs Duthler also said that the system must be future-proof. It is precisely because we have done well that we must be so self-conscious that we dare to ask ourselves how we will ensure that this remains so in the future. Green from Prinster would certainly have agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u307	It could be. I just mentioned the catering to put the case in the right proportions. I think Mr Kox has also understood from me that I have not denied that there are issues. There are problems that require solutions. I think that Mr Kox also heard in my first speech that I do not immediately find a state committee the appropriate instrument to provide a good and adequate answer to the questions. Why that is, I have already argued in detail. We agree that there are issues we need to look at. Apparently, however, there is no problem that is so pressing that anyone can point out that there is the weakness there. Now it is proposed to set up a state committee with a very broad mandate. The First Chamber must be careful not to undermine her strong position. That can happen if she puts away her own authority as an institution a little bit by saying that she cannot come to a good problem and has therefore found a very broad formulation. The unclear mandate is then laid down in the Lower House. The House of Representatives can say yes. If she doesn't, because she wants a few things different or wants to add something, it has to come back to the First Chamber and eventually we may not get the State Commission at all. I wouldn't mind that, but I'm also concerned about the trial. Are we doing well in that way and do we really think that the House of Representatives will sign on the cross? I can imagine what Mr Kox is saying: Mr Roemer will find the same thing as him. But imagine that in this house four parties are voting in favour of setting up a state committee, then it is not of course that we are only going to ask the Lower House groups of those four parties if they agree. There must therefore be a broad consensus in the First and Second Chambers to bring this to a successful conclusion. I have the impression that the sounding board group or the advisory committee still lacks support. It is therefore very important how this is formulated, because otherwise it may be that the House of Representatives is not to be judged. I also think, quite frankly, that a state committee is going to do a very long time on the formulation of the extremely pressing issues that we cannot name. In this respect, I think it is a good idea for Mr Kuiper to have an internal committee look at the issues that need to be addressed in the short term, namely matters about our own functioning. I look forward to that with interest in the college of seniors. I am left at the end of this debate to thank my colleagues for the pleasant debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u308	Mr. Chairman. In this second term, I would very much like to show my constructive side. I understood from Mr De Graaf's interruption that he had misunderstandings that we would not want to contribute to the improvement of the parliamentary system, but nothing is less true. We just don't feel anything for the detour of a state committee. That is why I advocated the starting point: improve Parliament, start with yourself. I have also seen the problems that my group has pointed out come across to a number of colleagues. I support any proposal to work together, on the basis of a constructive dialogue, to close the gap between voters and elected representatives, to analyse the problems and to improve the functioning of our Parliament. Such a dialogue could take place as far as the PvdD is concerned without the detour of a state committee. Let us choose the shortest route and find forms together to make our parliamentary democracy work even better than it is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u309	"Enhanced parliament, start with yourself," appeals to me very much. One can read the track record of my party and also of myself in parliamentary history, but what exactly were the proposals of the PvdD during the past six or seven years? What proposals for political renewal has the PvdD made?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u310	Mr De Graaf can read our election programme. We are doing a number of far-reaching reform ideas, but we are a priority party. We are not currently the largest party in Parliament, so we have to make choices, but if reform-minded proposals are made, we would like to think along with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u311	Then perhaps Mrs Teunissen's adage "better parliament, start with yourself" is not entirely correct for her party. It is more: improve Parliament, others should come up with proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u312	That's certainly not what I've been arguing all along. Mr De Graaf may not understand that there are many different ways of achieving reform. One of the reforms that the PvdD has been on for years is changing the perspective and culture as to how we deal with animals. This is also a structural change that we would like to see achieved. We've been committed to that for years. Today, I argue that I am constructive about other reformist proposals. I was just going to say "but I have a little doubt now that I think Mr De Graaf's first proposal is a very good one. This is about the deployment of a parliamentary committee to see how the problems that have been identified today by several colleagues can be better understood. Then we can see what means we can use to tackle these problems. In addition, I fully endorse Mr Kuiper's suggestion that we take a good look at the procedure of the First Chamber and do so together within our house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u313	Getting constructive is sometimes a complicated process. I also have some experience with this, but it is very nice that the spokesperson of the PvdD put it this way. What the PvdD wants most, we have already heard. That was presented in the first term. Now it's about what's possible. The PvdD has made proposals on the electoral system of the Upper Chamber and on the functioning of the Upper Chamber. The PvdD has also made a number of further proposals. Would it not be best for me or for my part to say that the PvdD has its own views, but that we can ultimately count on the constructive attitude of the PvdD and that the PvdD can justify and support the proposal to set up a state committee in order to talk about the way in which we can do our work better? I am very much in favour of the PvdD's support, including for this proposal. In my view, this is essentially something that is not at all strange to the views of this party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u314	Even for Mr Kox, I am not going to repeat my first term. I think I made it very clear in the first period that we want a good problem analysis first and that we ourselves see urgent problems, such as the confidence gap between voters and elected representatives. We think that a state committee is the wrong way round, a detour to a solution to that problem. We're looking for it with ourselves and in this house. That was my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u315	What proposals can we then see from the PvdD? Mrs Teunissen rightly states that the PvdD Group is small and that it cannot be present everywhere. That is correct, but the path outlined by the spokesperson of the PvdD is certainly not open. This is a possibility for the PvdD to also provide an input. We all have an understanding of what we want most, but in the end business must be done. We are now talking about the functioning of the most important thing we have, our parliamentary democracy. Finally, is the PvdD on the sidelines, because the proposal is not exactly what the PvdD wants, or does the PvdD say: we know our views, but now that it comes to it, do we want to participate in this important innovation process? I have heard Mrs Teunissen well in the first term. At that time it was about what we wanted, but in the second term it is about what we can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u316	I have argued before that the PvdD is perhaps one of the most reformist parties in parliament. I have also argued that we are trying to reform in several areas. We are debating a number of problems today. They have been appointed in the first term, but as far as we are concerned, their urgency is not such that we must now think of a means of solving these problems. We feel nothing for the detour of a large state committee. That is not the solution to the problems. We want us all to go to this house first and see what the problems are. Then we look at how best to deal with them. So I do not support the proposal for a state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u317	That is the ideal wish of the PvdD. Mrs Teunissen can say that, but the problem is that the PvdD Group cannot do so on its own. That requires a majority, but there is no majority in favour of that path. There's another road open. Is the PvdD so strict in the doctrine that it says: if this Chamber does not do what we want, but chooses another way, even if it may lead to improvements, then we will not go along with it at all? I don't know the PvdD like that at all, when I've known that party for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u318	Mr Kox knows almost nothing else about the PvdD's expressive policy. It means that we stick to our ideals. That is what we stand for. We are now conducting the debate in this direction. I'm very constructive. If proposals are made, in line with our ideals, which we can support, then we are very happy to do so. Then we like to think along. I have just indicated the two ways, either a parliamentary committee or Mr Kuiper's proposal, which we wholeheartedly support. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u319	Thank you. Mrs. Duthler?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u320	Mr. Chairman. My group needs a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u321	Ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u322	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u323	Mrs. Duthler, you asked for a suspension. I understand you want a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u324	Mr. Chairman. A very short third term. I shall table an amended motion to replace that printed under letter P (34000). I've collected enough signatures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u325	The Duthler c.s. motion. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the Dutch citizen aspires to be more involved in policy and politics, according, inter alia, to research by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau;]] [[the increasing importance of European decision-making for the parliamentary function and its shaping for both chambers of the States General;]] [[many tasks have been decentralised to other public authorities in recent years;]] [[electoral volatility has increased significantly;]] [[digitalisation and social media clearly affect the nature of representative democracy and the functioning of the parliamentary system;]] [[consideration of the election, tasks, position and functioning of the parliamentary system and democracy in the light of the above considerations;]] [[expresses its opinion that it is desirable, in consultation with the House of Representatives, to request the Government to set up a State Committee to answer the question of whether the parliamentary system is sufficiently future-proof and, if necessary, to make proposals for adjustments;]] [[also states that a State Committee may be accompanied by a guidance group composed of the two Chambers, while ensuring the independence of the State Committee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This amended motion was signed by Mr Duthler, Mr De Graaf, Mr Nagel, Mr Kox, Mr Barth and Mr Verheijen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-Q]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u326	I have a few questions for Mrs Duthler, particularly regarding the addition to the motion. It says that a state commission can be supervised. Does this mean that in the motion only one suggestion is made, in the sense of: it can or cannot be? How am I supposed to see that? I understood that there were a number of supporters of an advisory committee of the State Commission, while others thought otherwise. Can you tell us whether it is a state committee that can be accompanied, or which should be accompanied by a support group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u327	The motion contains the word "can." The state committee can be supervised. For the explanation of this addition, I would like to refer to the second-term debate. We then discussed in detail whether it should be a sounding board group or an advisory group, or whether there should be no support group at all. We have said: what is important is that the group should be composed of both chambers. It contains the political element, namely that the State Commission can be accompanied, while ensuring the independence of the State Commission. It's a possibility. In the law we have kan- and must-provisions. This is a decision; a power, but not an obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u328	So it is not an obligation, but where does it depend on whether that possibility is being used or not? Do you leave that to the government that may have to do so? Or do you leave it to the judgment of the House of Representatives, which still has to give its opinion on this matter? Where does it depend whether or not the State Commission will be accompanied by an advisory committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u329	That depends, of course, on both chambers, I would say. In the operative part, it says: "If her opinion is that it is desirable in consultation with the Lower House, where you already have the involvement of the Lower House to come to a request to the government to set up a state committee to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u330	So it depends on both rooms. Shouldn't this Chamber at least give an opinion on what this Chamber considers desirable on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u331	Since the motion also bears my name, like that of a whole series of colleagues here, I say: if the motion says "can," then it does not say "can't." This is what the Chamber pronounces. I think it is extremely good of Mrs Van Bijsterveld that she thinks: until the very last moment I will continue to try to divide here. However, groups have agreed on this, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. This is what it says; the ruling of this Chamber is clear. The government will understand him and the House of Representatives will understand him. If you can say 'if I can just get a little more clarity, the CDA group will also vote in favour', then we are going to devote a really long third time to it. For the moment, I think you have only a little to accept that this is the wording of the motion. Then you can vote for or against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u332	It may be that those who have signed the motion know what it means, but I think it is good practice for other groups to be able to understand exactly what is meant by it before they have to form a judgment. But I understand that you essentially leave that judgment to the House of Representatives, because you yourself say that it is up to the Chambers to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u333	The Rooms, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u334	But you say that at least this Chamber believes that this is open; it cannot or cannot. Will you leave it to the House of Representatives to decide whether or not this advisory committee should be there? 'Cause you're saying it can't be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u335	With this motion we are building up the possibility of setting up an advisory group, while ensuring the independence of the state committee. The State Committee itself will ensure that this independence remains sufficiently guaranteed. A space is now being created, a competence is being created. We didn't, but we do now. Let us count those blessings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u336	Can I ask you one question? Isn't it the state committee itself that judges that? Because you say "the Chambers" quite clearly, but it is not the state committee itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u337	And will you leave it to the government if the House of Representatives does not do so? I understand that it is a useful wording, but I still do not understand exactly who decides whether or not it will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u338	It is most obvious that the State Committee will decide that, but that will go in conjunction, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u339	But you just said it was up to both chambers to decide whether they will or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u340	The accompaniment group is composed of both Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u341	I shall now give the floor to Mr Schalk, because I do not think you are getting much further at the moment, Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u342	It is not my intention, by the way, to do anything about this interesting problem. I'd like to get back to that "can." We have shared a few things in second term, namely that it is so immediately absolutely necessary for the Lower House to accept what the Upper House has said. Otherwise it won't happen, at least I'm expressing myself now. In any case, it seemed to me to be the spirit of the debate that there should not be any major change. However, this choice is left open here, so I am curious, like the chairman, whether it is the First Chamber that finally says: that committee will be there. Or is it the House of Commons? Can the state committee itself make a judgment on this? Does the government have to decide? I also have a question for Mr De Graaf, who is now eager to be here next to me. He said in the second term that it is an absolute condition for D66 to have a sounding board group. Now I would like to ask Mrs Duthler: why don't you just make it 'there must or should be an advisory committee'? This is a question for Mrs Duthler and for that I asked Mr De Graaf. I wonder how you both appreciate what's in the motion. Sorry, Madam President, we were interrupting each other. That's not right. I'll rephrase it. I would like to ask Mr De Graaf how he appreciates what is now standing, compared to his first remark in the second term that it was a condition for D66. And to Mrs Duthler I address the other questions I have asked. Who ultimately decides what should or should not be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u343	I would like to begin by giving Mr De Graaf the opportunity to answer that question and then to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u344	As colleagues know, my group is always prepared to seek support. This is a motion of approval. The motion expressly mentions this guidance group. As Mr Kox rightly said, it does not say that there is not, it says that there can be. That is a clear statement, based on a real possibility that it will come. If the House of Representatives were to say: 'we absolutely do not want that committee', that would not mean that the state committee would not be there, but here is a start of a willingness to set up such a committee. The only thing on which I disagree with Mrs Duthler is whether it is the state committee. The State Committee does not decide the establishment of a club of MPs. The Chambers really do that, but if the House of Representatives says "we can live with this," then both Chambers will have to discuss the setting up of such a sounding board group. And for that reason, in order to ensure that we also have support, I said that I can live with this text.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u345	I cannot put it more beautifully than Mr De Graaf did. This is indeed the room that was acceptable to the political groups that signed the motion for a resolution in order to arrive at a joint motion. This too is a political home, here too we always look for support and sometimes you have to move along. Sometimes you give something, sometimes you take something, that's how it goes. That's what happened here. The space is there to set up such a group and we will see if it will actually be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u346	Maybe a little more precise. Space is here now, but I also asked who's about to decide. The First Chamber, the Second Chamber, the Government or the State Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u347	We'll see if it's coming, and I'm not going to make any harsh statements about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u348	I can imagine that, in view of the primacy of the House of Representatives, the opinion on this is initially with the House of Representatives. It must decide whether it can support such an idea. Then it is up to the government whether or not it will accept such a proposal, unless I see it wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u349	It is quite clear that it is a motion that is now being adopted by the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u350	Which has now been proposed by the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u351	Sorry, it's been introduced, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u352	I had another question about the advisory group formed by members from both Chambers. How exactly do you see that? Is it intended that all political groups should take part, both in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber, if they are interested in this? Or are these groups represented either in the First Chamber or in the Second Chamber? Is there anything else you can say about that? Then it will be a very large accompaniment group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u353	That's what we're looking up, I'd almost like to say. That is really something for further elaboration. That's not for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u354	May I ask, then, who is going to do that in your view? Is that the House of Commons?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u355	This is done in consultation with the House of Representatives and the government, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u356	You're just gonna wait and see what's said in the House of Representatives? And you think we should take over here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u357	I'm holding on to the operative part of this motion. This motion states that, in agreement with the Lower House, a request is made to the government for the establishment of a State Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u358	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u359	I think we have come to the end of the third term as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u360	There's an amended motion by Mrs. Duthler, the motion in 34000, letter Q. I propose that we vote on that motion next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u361	Mr. Chairman. Would it be very bad to vote on that motion a week later? I would like to be there, but I will be in Strasbourg next week on behalf of this Chamber. Would a week's delay be very bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-eerstekamer-5.u362	I'm gonna look around and see if the Chamber has any objection. That is not the case. Then we shall vote on the motion on Tuesday 2 February. I would like to thank all Members for the way in which we have had this debate, because it is quite unique in the history of the First Chamber that we have debated, not with the government, but with each other, the possibility of setting up a state committee on reflection parliamentary system. I would like to thank all Members for their input and for their discipline in the debate.
