ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Every time someone wants to change something about their mortgage, for example to adjust their height because they want to grow or to deposit extra money in a savings mortgage, they have to go to a consultant. Until 2013, the costs of this were not so visible, as they were included in the cost of the mortgage. This is not allowed anymore since the ban on commissioning was imposed. Although the ban on commissioning was an important improvement, consumers cannot unnecessarily lose hundreds of euros. Research carried out by the Consumers' Association also shows that there are considerable differences between providers. One provider charges far more than the other. According to the Complaints Institute for Financial Services (Kifid), a mortgage provider may not in all cases require that the consumer obtains separate advice. If advice is needed, there is a lot of discussion about whether this should be done free of charge, as a form of normal service. The Organisation of Financial Services has drawn up three categories for advice, with associated costs. I had doubts whether I would ask these questions to the Minister for Housing and National Service or to the Minister for Finance, because there is a overlap. Since this minister already has an appointment with the banks to talk about mortgages, following last week's question by Mr Van der Linde, I ask him the following two questions. Does he recognise that consultancy costs can be a problem for consumers? He has promised the Chamber to talk to banks and insurers. Can he take this problem with him? The second question is whether the Minister can respond to the proposal of the Organisation of Financial Services and the Consumers' Association to draw up categories of questions, with a directive on costs. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Koolmees referred to the message from the Consumers' Association that there could be significant costs in changing mortgages and that there are also major differences between providers. He asked for a response and asked two specific questions. First of all, a change in a mortgage is not easy to describe in advance as simple or complex. In 2013, the cabinet, supported by Mr Koolmees' party, chose that mortgage interest rates can be deducted only in the case of simple mortgage forms. Before that, hundreds of thousands, often very complex mortgages were put on the market. A change to such an old mortgage will generally be complex. In the context of the duty of care, it is not surprising that the provider will often associate a little advice with a change in a savings or investment mortgage. In addition, it may even be the question of whether it is attractive to pay extra. Of course, the Consumers' Association has a point that it is not obvious to link an expensive opinion to a very simple change. I would like to say to Mr Koolmees that I will present this subject in the regular conversation I have with the Association of Banks. I, too, saw the great differences between the rates of banks. Secondly, Mr Koolmees asked whether there should be some sort of directive on tariffs. I want to be careful with that. A directive often becomes a minimum rate. The Organisation of Financial Service Providers will also not be allowed to impose it legally, because that would really be market agreements. However, I felt very comfortable with the opinion in the Consumer Union article that, when taking out a mortgage, we should look not only at the level of interest but also at the conditions under which interim changes can be made. It is, of course, crucial that there is clarity about this at that time. I will discuss with the banks whether that clarity is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-5.u3	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I very much agree with the last point: you have to think carefully in advance about which contract you are signing. I also very much agree with the Minister that it is not always clear whether this is a simple or complex adjustment. But for that reason, the Organisation of Financial Services has made three categories. Things that are obviously simple should be done free of charge. If it is more complex, and therefore more expensive, and there is a need for advice, it may be cost-effective. Can the Minister not include this point in the discussion with banks and insurers in order to find a solution? As a result, I have two more questions. In 2017, the commission ban will be reviewed. Can the cost of the advice for the consumer be taken into account? Can this Minister and his colleague, the Minister for Finance, take this into account in the discussions he is holding on the housing market? Secondly, I am getting signals from practice that people who have hired an independent consultant for a mortgage advice, for which care has been taken and a considerable file has been built up, must go through the mill once again when they come to a mortgage provider. Can this also be included in the review in 2017? I would like to get a response on these three points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-5.u4	Taking both points into account in the evaluation, i.e. the cost to the consumer and the possible duplication of work, I will be happy to discuss with my colleague in the finance department. It does seem logical to me to do so. I propose to Mr Koolmees that, in the letter I am going to make in connection with the talks I am going to have with banks and, by the way, with other providers of mortgages, because fortunately there are now far more providers than just banks that will also reflect on the meaning and nonsense of the classification. I also want to be able to take a critical look at it, because a measure that seems simple does not have to be simple in a specific situation. Take the example of extra redemption. At first sight, that seems very simple, but I always think it would be wise to go through the financial system with someone and, for example, discuss any study plans or relocation plans. So we really need to agree that simple situations are also really simple, so that people do not unintentionally take a step that they will find difficult to reverse later. So I would like to return to the pros and cons of such a construction in the already promised letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-5.u5	That's gonna be a long letter. I thank the Minister for the commitments. I count my blessings, because I note that three commitments have been made. I'm gonna follow it, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-5.u6	I also thank the Minister. Then we've come to the end of this... Oh, Mr Albert de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-5.u7	The Minister is indeed coming to an end. The Labour Party considers it important that customers can see in advance whether advice is needed, that they are transparent and that there is a good relationship with the costs. I would therefore like to call for financial institutions to be transparent about the services they offer. I ask the Minister to include that in the talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-5.u8	In response to Mr Koolmees, I pointed out that I think it is very important that people should also be given an idea of what possible changes in costs might entail when taking out the mortgage. So I would like to come back to it in the letter that has been discussed a lot and perhaps rather long, but which is going to answer these questions.
