ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	Today we are discussing the first term of the government and the second term of the Chamber and the government. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister, the people in the public gallery, the MPs and everyone in the Chamber. I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Madam President. As an optimist, I would like to start with the positive side of the matter. The Netherlands is quite well placed in the international playing field. I think it would be a good idea to mention this immediately before I discuss issues such as realism, idealism, our difficult security situation and the role of Europe. We Dutch have much to offer the world. Of course there is a lot of work to be done, but we are among the world leaders in many areas: innovation, business competitiveness, social safety net, Internet density, social involvement, employment rates, freedom of the press, museums: almost everywhere we play at the forefront. And domestic resilience determines foreign influence. This translates into our position abroad, as the European Foreign Policy Scorecard recently indicated; Mr Servaes spoke about it yesterday. That is important, as you know, because "If you're not at the table, you end up on the menu." And we don't want that. We talk and we're seen and heard. I have made a list of these in response to the questions that have been asked. Of course we were President of the EU this year; I am not going to go into that now. That's already been worked out in detail here. However, it is good to mention that, if you are sitting in that chair, you can ensure, for example, that a border and coastguard is quickly established at European level, and that the external political strategy and the role of the internal market are accelerated. In addition, we will be in the UN Security Council on 1 January 2018. The Members have all spoken about this. That is, after all, the global board of governance for peace and security. Preparations for this are in full swing, together with Italy. The main points of our agenda are in line with the content of today's debate in the Chamber. Members have all spoken about conflict prevention, peacekeeping reform, Responsibility to Protect, rule of law, climate change and security. But there will be more when we sit at the table: the ring of instability, the fight against terrorism and migration. The Netherlands also plays an important role in the past period in a number of leading fora when it comes to problems that affect Dutch citizens mostly. I am thinking of the co-chairship, together with Morocco, of the Global Counterterrorism Forum. That is a leading group of 30 countries which is working very concretely on both the preventive and the repressive side of the fight against terrorism, in a very concrete and operational way. In replying to the questions on the budget, I showed to the Chamber a number of very concrete examples: a training of 1,700 judges and investigators, a training aimed at better lawmaking and prosecution of terrorists, policy for first-line staff with recommendations for tackling radicalisation and recommendations related to youth and radicalisation, including repressive elements relating to the imposition of penalties. Together with Turkey and Kuwait, the Netherlands is also chairman of the important anti-ISIS working group, which deals with foreign fighters. The flow of travellers to Syria and Iraq has declined substantially, partly through more effective detection and intervention by coalition countries. About 50 countries have arrested or prosecuted foreign terrorist fighters and their facilitators. In 2017, we will also be co-chairing something that you all consider important and which I will come back to later, the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the preparatory conference on this subject. This means that we are more at the buttons of nuclear disarmament, including in the NATO context. In 2016, the Netherlands was also the country that catalyzed and chaired the Review Conference on Cluster Munitions. In the field of human security, we are members of the Human Rights Council. I am not going to go into that now, because we discussed it extensively last week. I think it's very important that we hold on to the role in the Global Counterterrorism Forum. The Global Conference on CyberSpace is also essential, because I think we all want a free and safe internet. That is absolutely not the case now. I think that is actually the only way to work internationally with the private sector and the public sector to develop and apply international law and standards in the field of cyber. The last example I would like to mention is the entire coalition that we have set up with companies, NGOs and governments, including in the south, in the field of lgbti. Those forward-looking posts play an important role in all of this. Of course, we are not a very large country. So we should also try to influence all the points mentioned by the Chamber via these positions, to punch above our weight, as it is sometimes called. Of course, it is not just about positions and presidencies. We have also taken responsibility for participating in military missions in Iraq, Syria, Libya, Mali, Afghanistan and Somalia, always from the broad concept of the 3D approach. Military resources are essential, but they also include diplomacy and development cooperation in a modern way. I refer to that list on purpose, because it is important that the Dutch Government should take responsibility, both for international peace and security and for a large number of points that relate to our immediate interests. I'm not saying that from a chest beater. Having presidencies or forming part of coalitions is not a result, but an important means of helping us achieve results, for example the migration deal with Turkey, better agreements on information sharing on counter-terrorism and exchange of examples of counter-radicalisation in neighbourhoods. I was able to see that in Delft a few weeks ago, where we work together with the Tunisians on this. I also mention verification agreements on reducing the number of nuclear weapons. That seems less sexy, but if you have a nuclear deal, you have to make sure that it can be properly verified. Our participation in the anti-ISIS coalition is paying off. We have the upper hand against ISIS again. In short and good: I also say to Mr Sjoerdsma, who I do not think is there yet and who was a bit economical in his appreciation of what we have all achieved, that I was able to make something of it in this introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Sjoerdsma is here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u5	I can see him right now in the back. Sorry, Mr. Sjoerdsma, it's good to have you here. We are therefore well positioned on the different chessboards that matter. Well, that's a good thing, because we're at a rollover moment. I would like to make a few comments on that. All the spokesmen have rightly expressed their concerns about this. That good starting position is not a luxury, but a bitter necessity, given the geopolitical challenges we face. Although we may never have had the macro-economic best, our country is facing a number of systemic crises that call for a new social contract: accelerated ageing, increasing inequality in Europe, difficult integration of newcomers, climate crises and an empty gas bubble. Our strategic environment is also more complex and compelling than ever. The Brexit and the election of President Trump have added a little bit to that. Politics is on the move. Undercurrents emerge and rightly demand their place on the stage of democracy. I will be brief in my explanation of what I mean by "tile moment." The Chamber discussed this in detail yesterday. There are a few things coming together at the moment that make what is so beautifully called a "tipping point." We see how disintegration forces win the process of gradual global integration, to which we were accustomed after the Second World War. The Anglo-Saxon world seems to be taking a separate position. That is always a risk to continental Europe. Countries such as Russia, Turkey and Iran are revitalising their imperialist traditions. And Europe's weight is falling further. Everyone knows that the economic balance is also shifting further towards Asia. There is growing uncertainty and new, unpredictable forms of hybrid threat. Stability on the south flank has led to refugee flows of a magnitude that we have not seen since the Second World War and which are seriously testing cohesion, the future, the speed and direction of the European Union. But we need the European Union so badly right now. Because our geopolitical vacation is over. To the extent that there was naivety, including in the Chamber, I would like to hang it together. I believe that we must continue to build bridges at this very moment, between elitist cosmopolitanism and protectionist nationalism, between prevention and repression, between realism and idealism, between domestic and foreign. One thing is certain: no country can do this alone. The challenges are simply too complex. That is why I began to say something about what is positive: our return to important international positions, so that we can exercise influence. But it has to be different. We must not go to a disarray of politics as we see it now in the United Kingdom, but to a European cooperation that is mainly different from a legislative machine. The latter we know a bit from the past. That legislative machine no longer meets the requirements of the current setting. Europe will therefore have to reinvent itself at this time of tilt in this respect, and quickly. Europe must stand its ground in the evil outside world of 2016. We really need to keep our own pants a lot better. In any case, the uncertainty about the new American leadership strengthens me further in that belief. In some areas, even under the leadership of Germany, Europe must dare to take steps towards more, not less, cooperation, especially in the field of security. This means investing heavily in genuinely common foreign policy on asylum, defence, development cooperation and fairer trade. We must further strengthen the European common security and defence policy and continue to cooperate effectively and efficiently between our armed forces. As Foreign and Defence Ministers, we decided on this at the beginning of this month. As far as security is concerned, I am not talking about the wider debate on the future of Europe, we should do it with our British friends. For, Brexit or not, we must anchor the United Kingdom in our European security policy cooperation. I have already said something about the threats, about the geopolitical holiday and about the risk that the Anglo-Saxon world will take a different position in relation to continental Europe. This is essential for the Netherlands. The United Kingdom is also part of our European community of values. I was talking about the resilience of our society, where there is a lot going on. Let us not forget that our greatest strength lies in these values: human rights, freedom and democracy. The moment of tilt I spoke of also requires us to act strategically on the basis of these values. This brings me to the debate yesterday in the Chamber on realpolitik and ideals. The word'realpolitik' has been repeated in that debate, as has the word'moral policy'. This often happens in the Netherlands. I understand that Mr Van der Staaij is coming a little later, but he said yesterday: that distinction between merchant and reverend is a very old one given in the discussions on Dutch foreign policy. But between these two extremes of realpolitik and moral politics there is still something, something indispensable, namely values. "Values" is not an empty term. He also has nothing to do with a raised finger or a reverend. It is about our foundation, about the basic values of our Dutch society: democracy, the rule of law, pluralism and free press. Those are not purely Dutch values. They are universal values, as enshrined in international treaties. They concern political rights, civil rights and, not to mention, socio-economic human rights. I say this to all the Members of Parliament who have moved in this debate. Realism without idealism comes down to cynicism and opportunism. In the long term, this will cost more influence and credibility than it will bring. It's not sustainable either, no matter how tough it sounds. Conversely, ideals without realism are nothing more than daydreams. I say that very clearly, because a country that can only sit down with its friends sometimes we have a bit of a tendency here to say that 'to die of hunger'. So where in this Chamber some speak mainly in the name of realism, others speak on behalf of principles and ideals, and again others claim the exclusive right to speak on behalf of the people, I hope to stand here on behalf of all that and everyone else. I do not think it precludes one from the other, but, more importantly, it strengthens another. It cannot be without each other, because neither realism nor idealism is a long life without support. It is precisely this combination that is at the heart of our foreign policy, even for the coming period. That policy is committed to giving our country a place in a world that is safer, fairer and more future-proof. That's not easy. This requires constant consideration in very difficult situations, but also clear choices. Don't forget one thing: if you stand up for values in the Netherlands and abroad, that also forces respect, even if the opposing party thinks otherwise. Can you imagine that, at a time of terror and of apocalyptic organizations that are embroiled in the philosophy of death and violence, standing in the end for your own values and continuing to believe in them is the most powerful answer, apart from all military forces, deradicalisation and repressive elements? That means that if you want to uphold human rights in a new world, you must do so precisely when there are many autocratic regimes. Then you have to apply a strict arms export policy, precisely because of the risks you run if you don't. It also means that you are generously supporting a new generation, including in the Arab world, Turkey and the Russian Federation. Maintaining humanitarian war law is not something of idealism, but a very realistic approach to the consequences, for example with regard to migratory flows. In what follows, I want to focus on what we have done in the past, but also on the future. That is the directive. This is a history that comes together in almost all countries. Idealism without realism is empty and vice versa. We are going to talk today about some very difficult considerations, because we have a lot of countries around us that are not our friends and that we may not think are ideal. So the question is, what do you do with that? Mr Van Bommel said yesterday: should we perhaps talk more to the Russian Federation, or less? That's what you see in the discussions about President Trump. We will undoubtedly also talk about this with regard to Turkey, where we all have enormous concerns about freedom of the press and human rights. What do you do? Are you still supporting the opposition? What's the best way? These are the great considerations of realism and idealism. One thing might be even more important to say. The Netherlands is simply too small for 100% ideal politics. Then we're at the mercy of the big players. We are also too small for 100% realpolitik. Then we make ourselves totally irrelevant. I think we might be able to get a little further together in that approach today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u6	Are you done with the general introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u7	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u8	I shall now give the floor to Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u9	This was a fine speech by this minister, who keeps the balance between the VVD and the PvdA with realistic idealism and a little string dancing. But we also know this minister as an idealist and as someone who stands for human rights. From the Christian Union's side, I will give him a little push towards: just stand up for those human rights. Of course you have to do it diplomatically. However, the minister is also president of the foreign group, which deals with missions and so on. Defense then executes it. He says: there we see that more needs to be done in terms of finance. In the Navy's note, resources may be released. We're seeing cuts in development cooperation and we've seen cuts in defense. Will this minister, as chairman of the foreign group in the cabinet, plead for more money in the Navy's memorandum on defence, for development cooperation and perhaps also for his own diplomats?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u10	I leave responsibility for that analysis to Mr Voordewind. I do not think this has anything to do with a mediation between the VVD and the Labour Party. I've believed in that combination my whole life. That is why we in the Netherlands are trying to bring out the interests and concerns of our citizens. That has nothing to do with parties. That has to do with national interest and with the way in which these two matters, I think, really belong together. That's one. Second. What I'm going to argue in the Council of Ministers, I'm not going to report here, because that's something for the Council of Ministers. I have said before that I think it is important that, after a time of austerity, we continue the trend that we have already made in almost all areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u11	The next period? This cabinet is probably six months away, because even if you're a missionary, you're still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u12	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u13	So we still have a budget to go. This cabinet certainly has its mark on that. So this minister is also at the table when it comes to the Navy Note. What is his commitment to the negotiations on the Navy Note? I am not talking about the next period, because we will see after 15 March. Is he actually going to argue for more money in the Navy Note? We have to cut short on missions. For example, we already have to halve in Mali. If we're gonna turn that around, we're gonna have to add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr Voordewind knows the debate, because it takes place in all the budgets, including those who have a lot of money. That goes for BuHa-Os and Defense. Let us be honest: Foreign Affairs has a very small budget compared to Development Cooperation, for example. I remember that well from my time as Minister for Development Cooperation. It is clear to me that the issue is not that we like to spend money abroad. Among other things, because of concerns of Dutch people, we need to invest in a number of things for which we now take responsibility. That's the message I want to deliver today. I do not agree with what Mr Voordewind says about the missions. Look at the numbers and percentages. The Netherlands is certainly not underproportionally engaged in international missions that are important for our security, rather above proportional. We're in Lithuania: enhanced forward presence. We take the threat of the Russian Federation very seriously. We're active in the coastguard at Libya and training. We have a very important responsibility, which will also continue to be discussed in the Chamber in Mali. We have acted in Iraq and Syria, and we still do. So I see no reason to argue for more money in the Navy's note. We have taken responsibility for those missions. They're well funded. I am glad that we are allowed to do so and that our people there take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u15	I would just like to say a few words about the Minister's speech on values. I thought that was a nice and balanced story. In fact, I think there was quite a balance in yesterday's debate. With the exception of the PVV, which advocated a somewhat distorted idealism, I have not heard anyone talk about a predilection for ideal politics. I do not know if we have heard the same debate, but it seemed almost the Minister's suggestion that this contradiction would exist in the Chamber. I don't see that contradiction. Perhaps the Minister has heard it differently, but then we have a difference in perception of reality. I've heard everyone pleading for realpolitik. I come to standards and values and European society. The Minister stresses that they are international values, which are often also established. In my view, however, they are, historically, almost all values that originate in the European continent. Then we'll have to grab him 2,000 years back. They're from here. I have great concerns and ask the Minister to go into them about what is now happening within Europe. It almost seems as if European values, as we know them together, are being thrown away by increasing political populism in all those European countries, in such a way that Europe is, as it were, denying its own values. Does the Minister agree with me? How could you get that discussion back on the table in a European context?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u16	I disagree with Mr Grashoff on this point quite fundamentally. I do not believe that the values to which I refer are Western values. I am talking very clearly about universal values. They are also universally signed, by almost all countries in the world. The nature of these values and norms originates in different cultures, religions and continents. Europe has played an important role in this, perhaps also in the way they are defined; let there be no misunderstanding about that. Let us not fall into the trap of European values and not universal global values. That is exactly what is now being discussed in the Court of Justice. If you are credible in human rights, you must realise that you cannot enforce human rights by force. The military enforcement of human rights or the imposition of extreme conditionality on all kinds of interventions, which are sometimes advocated here and there, can be counterproductive. Thirdly, it can be said that the world has changed. The power in other parts of the world has grown. They will, in particular, see whether there is any credibility in Europe with regard to human rights. I think that's real. That is why, for example, the Dutch Government was not so long ago in the direction of Poland and Hungary to ensure that the rule of law is a high priority within Europe. I have criticized countries such as Hungary and Poland for a reason in the Chamber, not to put them away, but to say that there is something going on here. In that sense, I do not agree with Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u17	Finally, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u18	The essence of what I wanted to say is not that the values of origin, to a large extent from Europe, would not be universal. That's how they're being seen all over the world right now, and they are. I agree with the Minister. Part of his answer was more relevant in the perspective of my question. There is something crazy going on right now in Europe. Within Europe, these values are increasingly being handled rather sloppyly. If we continue to do so, if Europe crumbles because these values are no longer worn, that is actually the end of the European Union. It is not a question of whether we can conclude a trade agreement anywhere else. This is fundamental, and that's what I'm worried about. The Minister is now saying that he has addressed Hungary and Poland on something, but is this really something that should be put very firmly and heavily on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u19	I don't quite understand the analysis. Mr Grashoff brings together a lot of things. I do not think populism is the same as non-respect for human rights. We shouldn't throw anything together too quickly. You can be for or against populism; it also depends on how you formulate it. I am not saying that human rights are being trampled on for populists. That is not the case at all. However, I am concerned about the Putinisation of certain political movements that could pose risks to the freedom of the press. We have to look at that fairly businesslikely. We in Europe stand for a community of values. We are strong in this, and that is why we are attractive. We must protect this, and that is why I am in favour of the rule of law mechanism in Europe. That is at the heart of what we also have to do in Europe, even with introspection, because we have also had discussions in Europe about the Netherlands, and no country is excluded. This is certainly the case when we fight terror. Then you must be sure that you protect your own values well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u20	I am glad that we will also have a more fundamental debate on the course and direction of Dutch foreign policy in the course of a budget debate, even if this is the result of the terrible figure of the pastor and the merchant. I'm very glad everyone's getting away from that now. I agree with Mr Grashoff who says that we have all tried to stay out of it. However, there are two other figures that can also dominate Dutch politics in general and these are the cabbage and the goat. In foreign politics, it's about making choices. Does the Minister agree with me that in the current world where international institutions erode and autocrats and bullies are on the rise, you can only conduct a values-driven policy... I am in favour of that and I made two proposals yesterday that belong perfectly in that value discourse. I would also refer to the proposals I made last week to improve the ICC. You can only afford that if you are a strong country with a strong economy and a strong defence. Only when you have those hard elements in order, it makes sense to draw attention to the soft elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u21	I would point out that two things need to be distinguished. A country has power and a smaller country has less power. You have hard and soft power. We both need it. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. That is why the government has reversed the trend in defence and security expenditure. Maybe we should move on. There's more. There are discussions about that. You have all had them, and you must continue to do so. But I think that is essential, also as a foreign minister. I think it is essential that we take responsibility for missions. If we go to Mali, we do so, like the French, to stop the caliphate. It's about standards and values. Otherwise, we won't have to go there. Then we can say: there is a caliphate; too bad; why should we fight against it? We do this because this directly affects our security and values. It has nothing to do with cabbage and goat. Foreign policy means making choices every day, about Turkey, about Russia, whether or not to withdraw money, whether or not to support a resolution. It's all elements that come down to that. It's about the responsibility we have at this time. There are parties who want to throw out all the foreign spending and keep it in their chambers, but I say to them that this has nothing to do with standing up for the concerns of Dutch citizens. The security and stability of our country are prerequisites for the continuation of the social contract at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u22	I couldn't agree more. Anyone who does not agree with that, like the colleagues of the PVV, is therefore in favour of destroying the constitutional article in which we specifically refer to that international legal order, in my opinion, the Netherlands is only one of the three or four countries in the world that do so. That's not what I'm here for. In fact, I'm very much in favour of keeping that in there and living it. In this world, however, you can no longer do that everywhere and always. The analogy with human rights policy has been made quickly. You can't do it everywhere anymore. You have to do it much closer to home. You need to do that closer to where your interests are put first and most prominent and most pregnant. That is exactly what the Minister is talking about, for example at our external borders. My plea is mainly aimed at closer and smaller and at doing less rather than more. That also makes us more effective, precisely because we are such a small country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u23	There are two elements in this too. First of all, there's geography. At the heart of the threats is the instability around Europe. That is what I have put forward in my policy, in all the notes. That's where we open new embassies. There we are in the process of strengthening programmes in the field of deradicalisation and stability. So that means you always make choices. I agree with Mr Ten Broeke on this. However, some threats are not geographically defined, but thematically. I am thinking only of the climate threat, which directly triggers refugee flows in northern Mali. I think that a little further away the risks are also great, namely in Afghanistan. That is why we decided to do Resolute Support with the agreement of the Chamber. However, let there be no misunderstanding: with limited resources it is a choice. That is why we have made clear choices in the Foreign Affairs budget about the immediate vicinity of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u24	In this general introduction, the Minister analyses what is going on, but he lacks any self-reflection. He does listen to sentiments and sincere feelings of people who say that they do not want to transfer any more to Europe, but the only thing this minister comes up with is: even more Europe, for example, on defence and development cooperation. He's already talked about an FBI, but it's already clear we shouldn't go that way. The Minister also refers to further military interventions. It was rightly said in the American election campaign that if the American politicians had been lying on the beach at the time of Iraq, we would not have had that military intervention and we would not now see the disastrous consequences in the Middle East. Where is this minister's self-reflection? The population wants to move in a different direction. Military interventions have not led to more democracy and stability, but rather to the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u25	It is good that Mr Monasch knows exactly what the people think; congratulations. I wish I knew this as exactly as he did. Let me say a few things about it. I'll start with the reflection. I have not yet mentioned the issue of Europe, but anyone who has debated Europe with me knows that I am not a federalist. I am on a number of elements for less Europe. During the Presidency, we fought for this too. For many elements there is a return to sovereignty for the national state. At the same time, as Minister for European Affairs, I have responsibility for things that are important, such as combating terrorism. The people, whom Mr Monasch knows so well, want to ensure that their safety is well taken care of. It is essential that we protect Europe's external borders. So that's a much more nuanced vision. That's not just self-reflection. I'm not talking to an elite. I heard Mr Monasch two years ago at the famous Maidan Square in Kiev. There he kept a big story to support the people there in relation to the association agreement. Two years later, you do "fashionable" something different. Perhaps that could lead to self-reflection rather than criticism of this government, which is trying to adapt what is happening in reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr Monasch, and through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u27	It's about self-determination. The Ukrainians wanted self-determination over what they did. In the Netherlands, the people have also indicated what they wanted in terms of self-determination. In 2005, a European treaty was rejected by a large majority, but you did so. At the Ukraine referendum, a large majority of the Dutch people themselves, I was in favour of that treaty; no misunderstanding about it said it does not want to go that way. But you're pounding. I am not concerned about who knows the people, I am simply referring to a number of statements made. It is not right that we should go to a federal state. You can deny that, but everything you've said in the last week points to perseverance on the way to a federal state. Then just admit it. I would also like to hear a reaction on the issue of military interventions, which have led to a failure. This minister says that we must continue along that path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u28	There are so many elements in Mr Monasch's remarks which are not correct, which have been swept together. Let me begin with the issue of military intervention. You are speaking here with a minister who, as a Member of Parliament and now in response to the reports, was a major opponent of intervention in Iraq. Why do I have to do self-reflection? I was against that intervention, as I am against many military interventions. What makes you say that? Where do you get that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u29	No, no, no, Mr. Monasch, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u30	I also worked on a mission in Mali, where we stopped a caliphate because Dutch citizens do not want terrorists to come here. What is the term "military intervention" about? It's about protecting your people, whether you're making sense of it, whether you're in a mandate or not. What makes you think there's no self-reflection about military intervention?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u31	Speak through the chairman. No, Mr Monasch. We're doing interruptions in two. Now Mr. Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u32	Who may speak on behalf of another part of the people. Let me at least support the Minister in his plea. He's actually saying that if you want influence, you're gonna have to be everywhere. That will have to be diplomatic, by being an active member of various international fora or alliances. The minister said you have to make choices with limited resources. Of course, that's always the case. But this minister also deals with these limited resources in this cabinet. I was just triggered by the Minister's remark that we have achieved the trend break. We really need to do more in terms of diplomacy, especially in this world, in order to identify and act on conflicts at an early stage. This is important for this minister, and so is security services. However, it also applies to our membership of the NATO alliance. My first question was whether the Minister could reflect on that. He says there's been a trend break. If this minister really wants to have more influence in many places, which is just what is needed in this world, which is also important for the electorate, and we need to be able to explain that here, much more will have to be done, much more than has happened in the last four years, in the field of deterrents and investment in our international security. I would like a reflection from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u33	I actually agree with Mr Knops. Your group chairman apologized for the major cuts at the time. I am not going to repeat it, because at least we have achieved a trend break. But I'm in favour. You know that I am a minister for missions, for sensible speeches, I say to Mr Monasch. We need resources for that. How much resources can you fight over? This is not a question of the defence budget. For security, thanks to the Chamber and Mr Sjoerdsma and others, we have been able to reverse the trend towards more diplomats. By the way, with all due respect, it is not just a question of money on some of the elements I am working on. I also believe and hope that those who were so sceptical about development cooperation at the time will realise how important it is for our international security. We will see how it works, but at least we are trying to fix it and do something about it in the light of the socio-economic situation you know. It also has to do with an exchange rate loss. That's where everyone's supposed to draw their consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u34	This is an extremely realistic response from the Minister. I only note that in four years too little has been done in this area and that the Minister is actually expressing the wish that much more should be done. It is not just a question of money, but when it comes to diplomatic presence and the continuation of missions, such as those in Mali, we wholeheartedly support that mission, precisely in line with the Minister's argument that it is money. Then it's about how long you can keep it up, not just as the Netherlands but as the Western community, because the threat that comes from it directly affects us in the Netherlands. We will simply have to invest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u35	The latter is true. On the first, I say that I have started a large number of activities by the Dutch Government. You could say that we have significantly reversed the trend of austerity, less international presence and much less participation in missions. It's widely appreciated, too. It has contributed to the fact that we have now been elected a member of the Security Council for a year. That reflects in that. People have faith in us. We really don't have to be ashamed of ourselves or make ourselves smaller. Everyone realizes the tipping point I spoke of earlier today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u36	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions asked by the Chamber. Many questions have been answered in writing, not because I would not like to do so here but because a number of issues have been raised in debates before. I will first deal with the ring of instability around us. That is the essence, as I say to Mr Servaes and Mr Ten Broeke. I will deal with Syria, Russia, Libya and Turkey. In fact, I have dealt with the role of Europe to a large extent, but I still have a few questions to answer from Members. I will also make a few comments on the role of America. Of course, I will go into the Middle East peace process. I should also like to say a few words about the consular problem. Let me start with the ring of instability, starting with Syria. Syria is the subject on which I stand most empty-handedly before you, if I am being very honest. I don't often have sleepless nights. I'm not saying this to be interesting either, but this is the biggest drama we haven't been able to turn on each other. Some of you may have seen White Helmets on Monday. I went to that movie. It's a tragedy we can't imagine. I am very much afraid that the total warfare we are seeing in Aleppo is continuing. I want to take some sort of immediate action. I spoke to my French colleague on Monday. Apart from all the strategic discussions we have often held on Syria, there is the vacuum of transition in the United States. I've asked for an emergency meeting. This total warfare cannot continue, simply because there is no new US President yet, or because Europeans do not know exactly what to do, or because the proxy in the region is bothering each other. Each time it will have to be tried, also with Hijab of the opposition and with Mogherini, to arrange an emergency meeting as soon as possible, as far as I am concerned. In any case, the London Group must be involved in this. Despite everything, there are still talks going on in Aleppo about the separation and the humanitarian convoy. At the moment there are zero convoys coming, so that is dramatic. Moreover, the blame for this lies on several sides. A few things are essential in the very short term, in the current period. I mentioned a number of examples, such as the role of the Security Council. I know that France and other countries in Europe are in agreement to go there again. There must also be contact with the Russians; we know the whole discussion. As far as the Dutch Government is concerned, everything is being done to prevent this from happening. There is a bit of a tendency to do that. We should start with Syria. In addition, we do other things in the field of Syria, which are known to the Chamber. It is not an "ISIS first" but also a fight against ISIS. We are very active in the field of peace talks. That is already important, despite the fact that there is no agreement and the war continues. I refer to the Track II initiatives, which are in line with the Voordewind motion on involving the Syrian Democratic Council in the informal dialogues in Geneva, with a large number of civil society people. Our Special Representative is active in that field. Of course, there is financial support. I have seen today, I want to say publicly that Minister Lavrov is now accusing even the UN Envoy for Syria, De Mistura, of sabotaging talks between opposition and regime. According to Lavrov, the Mistura should participate more actively in talks between the Syrian regime and the opposition in Damascus. Lavrov's reproach for De Mistura is, to say the least, extremely cynical. Russia is responsible for the current stalemate in the UN Security Council on Syria. Russia is not seeking peace in Syria, but is partly responsible for the atrocities. We will have to document that, too. At some point, there's always justice. Then we shouldn't let this go. That's what the people from Aleppo asked: maybe you can't do it now, but make sure you document it. It's the world upside down. Russia has the shamelessness to blame a tireless champion of peace in Syria, Mr De Mistura. That does not help, as I say in the direction of Mr Grashoff, who asked about the position of Assad. Yeah, that's right there. There will have to be a solution that he is not permanently part of. That is part of the negotiations the Syrians are about. The most important thing is today's priorities. Mr Voordewind asked about the possibilities for supporting the SDC. I answered that question in writing. Mr Van Bommel asked a question about the Syrian Kurds and their desire for autonomy. The announcement of a federal state by the PYD in Syria earlier this year has received little support, in Syria and beyond. The adjustment of borders can therefore count on very limited support from the population and has proved to be not very successful in the past. After 100 years, the often controversial Sykes-Picot boundaries are somewhat more sustainable than is sometimes thought. When it comes to Raqqa, it is important to take care of it early. I will also take an initiative in this regard. In this case, I am, frankly, a little more afraid of the Kurds, who want to stay in the city and create enormous fear among the local population. It is certainly not the fault of the Kurds, but it has something to do with the military setting in which that city will soon have to be liberated. We are, of course, making progress. Despite everything that has been said, the fight against ISIS continues. The terrain is being considerably reduced and continues to be so. Everyone here has said that the military solution is part of the whole. Otherwise, we will create a new ISIS. Same goes for Assad. Those who now secretly think that those people are there that the fight against terror is more important than the fight against ISIS, are engaged in an illusion. If there is no future for the Sunni population groups in Iraq and Syria, then terror will continue. How to deal with this is one of the difficult issues. The Dutch Government has always said that we are at the forefront of the fight against ISIS, but we always relate this to the political story that is needed in Syria and that is only very moderate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u38	Before I give an opportunity to interrupt, I think it is right for the Minister to conclude this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u39	Then I'll finish up here. There were some questions about what we are doing in the Ninevé plain, etc., but perhaps I can answer them on the basis of a possible follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u40	My question is about Syria, so I think this is a good time. Following the visit of the delegation of the Second and First Chambers to the NATO-Assemblee, which, of course, also mentioned Syria, I would remind you of the suggestion to establish a safe corridor between Syria and Turkey. It is a difficult concept, because it requires setting up a no-fly zone or other accompanying measures in the military sense. Does the Minister see any hope or potential for such steps towards further negotiations? Or does he emphasise negotiations around Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u41	As far as Syria is concerned, I would not exclude anything at all, not even a no-fly zone, although I can see very clearly that this is not easy at the moment because of the geostrategic situation there and the presence of Russian forces. I don't think it's impossible. If you can come to an agreement on a particular situation in order to achieve that, I am not an opponent of it. In that sense, no option is excluded. That area you're talking about is something else. It should be a very large area in which everyone can live in reasonable peace. Not so long ago, the Turkish Government had a number of proposals related to the Turkish fear that there would be a broad strip of the PYD which, in relation to the PKK, would be a security risk to Turkish sovereignty and security. Let me say, apart from the broader debate on Syria, that I think this is a legitimate security need. The question is then what is to be done with it. I can answer that question now. In the context of NATO, we want to know what Turkey is doing, because it is a NATO ally. In addition, I think it is essential that the Americans, the coalition if you like, make good and precise agreements with Turkey. It must be clear that it is not a fight against the Kurds but against ISIS. Of course, this includes agreements with regard to Iraq. I don't think that's impossible, by the way. In the meantime, the game has become more complicated because the Russian Federation is also involved. Strangely enough, there is still the possibility of reaching some kind of deal that does not create a free zone, but can lead to a number of agreements between the countries involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u42	The minister mentions the main players in that area that is usually considered when it comes to the corridor: the Russians, the Turks and the Kurds. The question is, of course, what is feasible in the short term. We all know what is needed in the short term. That's humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u43	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u44	The question is, what is the priority here? Is that humanitarian aid, especially in winter, or is that the steps that can be taken to allow parties to abide by a possible cease-fire? That was in the picture for a while, but that image just blew up again. What, according to the Minister, has priority in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u45	The difficult thing about your question is that it is a condition for the other. The big problem is the cease-fire. This is necessary, at least temporarily, in order to provide humanitarian aid. Business is done, by the way. It's not like nothing's gonna happen. I'm referring to the medical evacuation from Aleppo. However, it is all a matter of sticking patches. You can say that the Netherlands, as a smaller country, can contribute to breakthroughs through the ISSG and the EU. The core remains that our humanitarian aid is essential. We are in favour of organising food drips in a different way, perhaps from Turkey. This is what we discussed this week with the White Helmets who know exactly what the situation is on the ground. We're all gonna try that to the limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u46	My question is about Syria. You also look back on such a period. This is the last foreign affairs budget debate in this cabinet. I hear the Minister saying that the situation in Syria is very serious. He's right about that, too. The Russians are out there, and Assad is still out there. My question concerns the role of the Minister himself. Could we, could the Minister not have done more, for example, by acting vigorously earlier? For months, and perhaps years, the Minister has hesitated and hesitated whether we should attack ISIS in Syria. How does he look back on his role? Didn't he leave it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u47	The criticism is in the Chamber. I think I did what I could. I believe that we have made exactly the right decisions with regard to Syria and the fight against ISIS. I mentioned the reasons. The fight against ISIS is, and is, very active. You can have your views on the F-16s. I thought at the time, and I still think, that the only way to combat ISIS effectively is to ensure that ISIS doesn't show up in the next place. The Netherlands is very active in ensuring that stabilisation in the region takes shape in such a way that a new form of ISIS does not appear immediately. ISIS is being handled fantasticly at the moment. I have great appreciation for that. This is done by a coalition that has been part of the Netherlands. We are widely praised for that. In that sense, I would not say that we are not active there. But, of course, it is up to you to take your position on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u48	Too little, too late. We are active, but with very little and much too late. That is my point: far too late. I believe that this Minister has been responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u49	I do not agree with you that everything is too late. I do not see exactly how the Dutch Government itself could have chosen a different policy. For that, I need other countries, because we are not that big. In the coalition, the Netherlands plays a more than proportional role, given the size of our country, the level of our income and the number of people we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u50	We have been talking a long time about how we might still have influence in Northern Syria. The Chamber has previously adopted a motion to support the Syrian Democratic Council. The minister says: that is difficult, because it is linked to the PYD and may be linked to the PKK again. May I ask the question a little more openly? We talked to the SDC. We have the impression that it is only for a third dominated by the PYD and that 35 other parties are members of the SDC.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u51	Is it possible to get the abbreviations...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u52	The Syrian Democratic Council. What possibilities does the Minister see? At some point you have to get some form of governance, cooperation and reconstruction going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u53	I have just spoken to many Kurdish groups, including opposition leaders, who have major problems with the PYD. That's a Marxist-authoritarian...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u54	I was talking about the SDC.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u55	I know it's a broader group, but you're always asking for my support. I understand very well that you are coming back to your point. I said that we support them and involve them in the peace talks, perhaps for stabilisation plans. If they are credible and show that they are more open to all population groups, then I have no problem with doing so. That's what I'm doing in the light of the motion. As soon as there is good news, I would like to inform you, because I know that you are attached to it. I'm not running from that either. But I have also had a few talks here in The Hague with the Kurdish leaders from that region. They really have big problems with it and say: do not do that, they are just the projects that do not end well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u56	I talk to these people, too, but they're back on the other side. They are on the side of the moderate opposition and are fiercely opposed to the SDC. I would like to encourage the Minister to see these comments in that context. My question was more open: what other possible groups does the Minister see in Northern Syria? We have received a women's delegation here together with the Labour Party. It has also been investigated by the Ministry. Are there any other elements in Northern Syria to alleviate the suffering?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u57	Yes. Let me start very concretely. The Netherlands, together with the European Union, has consultations with the five largest Kurdish parties. They're all about this. They're about stabilization. They go about: where can the money go, how can we ensure that after Raqqa, after whatever happens in the direction of liberation, that money goes directly to the people and that there is protection? That's important. You are right to talk about the province of Ninevé. The core is to get people back as soon as possible. That's why we spent money on mining. It is very important now that the consultations can then include money with the Sunni leaders in Ninevé. The defence and protection of Christians, which I consider essential, can only be achieved by this way. I don't believe they should live apart. That's incredibly risky. Of course, the Netherlands has only a small role in this, but we are open to playing this role with the others. If we can then finance that, we will not fail to do so. But the number of activities is very large, also through the Funding Facility for Immediate Stabilization. There is sometimes criticism of UNDP funds, often rightly so, but under the leadership of Lise Grande of UNDP they are working on this money to ensure that soon in Ninevé Christians will not be discriminated against or even worse the day after liberation and that agreement will also be reached in the Sunni world and the Kurdish world. That's very risky. That is why we are now also talking to those Kurdish leaders. Unfortunately, the future of Raqqa is still very little discussed internationally. It's a Dutch initiative. We're gonna try. Then I come to the situation in Libya. I would like to make a few comments on this in the direction of Mr Ten Broeke. Mr Servaes also asked. Yeah, we're gonna work with Italy in that field. For Italy, stabilisation of the situation in Libya is indeed a priority. We're working on a MoU with Italy right now. Of course, we're already talking about that. They are of course the first chef de ville, just to put it this way. They know Libya. It is a former colony, where they have a long and, by the way, rather dramatic violent history. There is also a short and a long term. Let me keep it short-term, given the time. This is really about how we get the East and the West back together in Libya. That is what all diplomatic efforts are now aimed at. It concerns in particular the position of General Haftar. I believe that a certain degree of cooperation is needed in order not to divide that country into three parts, because then we will be farther away from home. Of course, given the interests of the Dutch and the Dutch concerns, we are working on the migration route. That's where the core is now. Just because there's trouble with the Coast Guard, we train them. It's our people out front. Together with IOM and the UN, we are making sure that I do not have to say so, because we are not taking care of it; it is far too complicated to do so, or we are considering whether migration in Libya itself can take place in a different way in those detention centres. We are now seeing return projects from Libya back to countries in West Africa. I'm going to Niger in two weeks. We see that there for the first time that the European Union's efforts for return projects for people coming to Niger and continuing to Libya and Europe are beginning to become fairly effective, to say the least, starting to work. That's what we're doing. I think that you are all very much involved in this, and that is what we want to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u58	Is this point ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u60	Then I give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u61	I'm excited about what the Minister is saying for two reasons. Firstly, he says in so many words that Haftar is the strong man there and that we cannot escape doing business with him. That is a good example of the fact that you unfortunately have to make dirty hands in order to improve the situation in your own interest. Secondly, the Minister says that we are gradually looking at Libya from a point of view of return. Many parties in this Chamber feel that it is impossible to send people back to Libya, people who have often volunteered to go there from other parts of Africa. We need to get to that return. We must ensure that a serious return from Libya is underway. Then comes my follow-up question, which I also asked in my first term: what about the migration deals that we are going to conclude not only with Libya but also with countries of origin? That is precisely the issue that was raised yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u62	That is a very important question. The situation depends on the country we're talking about. Libya is currently an unsafe country. People can't be sent back there. Everyone understands that. Nevertheless, it is the objective, although I would not count on it as the first stage. We are now talking about hundreds of militias, the new government and what we are trying to do with the East. By the way, there is also some good news. ISIS is almost defeated in Libya. So there are also positive reports from Libya, although it remains a very unstable country. You're going to have to focus on migration management and stabilisation there. Actually, they're connected. Where do people come from, above all? That is very little the drop-off from Syria, to say it in a perhaps unpleasant way about people. So it's West Africa. Europe, led by the high representatives, together with a number of Member States, including the Netherlands, will return to Niger and Mali in two weeks' time. They consist of three elements, I say to people who say that it is all corrupt money that goes to countries of migration. That is not the case at all. That depends on whether you're doing it right or not. There are therefore three elements, which directly represent a Dutch and European interest. There's the laissez pass, the return. That's the point. That's the hardest thing for those countries. After all, they simply receive income from people who live here, also illegally. If you want to break that, you have to make sure that at least the papers are there to take them back. It is perhaps also realism and idealism together: something must be done about it. This is the way it works in the world, especially when it comes to the poorest countries. This means that there are two areas of cooperation. The first is the fight against human trafficking. That takes a long time; we agree on that. That is what I am doing with Mr Monasch's criticism. This is not easy in countries that also make money from human trafficking. But I have seen myself in a country such as Mali, but also in Niger, that there are opportunities for that. I don't think that's naive, because that's what people deserve. There's never been any cooperation. Nevertheless, I believe that this is very important in a number of respects and in the interests of those countries themselves. The third point is that these refugees, i.e. economic migrants, come from very specific areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u63	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u64	Cooperation is therefore taking place on these three points. A number of questions have been asked about Turkey's external but also Turkey's internal relations. I would not like to say so much about the external. I said something about neo-ottomanism. I will not go into that very deeply. There has also been an idea led by President Erdogan and the previous Prime Minister that there would be no more enemies and that a kind of enlargement to the Middle East would make sense. That time is a bit over, but it still shows itself in the symbolism of palaces and elements that have to do with a kind of Ottoman pride. The Chamber itself has been involved in NATO membership through the NATO Assembly. I would like to say a few things about the internal situation. I know that we will come back to that in the Chamber, both next week and in the light of the preparations for the European Council. Let there be no misunderstanding: I remain very concerned and critical about the situation in Turkey on many fronts: the freedom of the press, the situation of parliamentarians, the way in which it gradually extends to all political groups in Turkey, so its repressive nature. That is a huge concern for everyone. We are working very actively on two points. Firstly, we are talking to the opposition and the people who suffer most from it. They actually say: keep in touch with us, do not break all lines, but be very critical. That's what we're doing. Yesterday, also in view of this debate, I called Jagland, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, asking: how can we ensure that people are entitled to appeal in all those decrees that have been implemented? He has taken an initiative along with the Minister of Justice there. I think it is important that that happens, because the numbers of people who have been fired are huge. This week, the Venice Commission will go there again. I will also again argue for two things: firstly, the freezing of IPA funds. They are now, under the leadership of a number of initiatives, focused entirely and exclusively on the rule of law and the press. Nevertheless, you can see that space is getting small. Secondly, there is the Commission Against Torture. How do you handle it best? I see that Turkey is straying from Europe and is moving further away. The ball is in their corner. Some say it has something to do with the refugee deal. That all sounds very attractive. We are supposed to be hostages of Erdogan, but it is very simple: visa liberalisation simply will not happen if those benchmarks are not reached. Exactly the same is happening with respect to Chapters 23 and 24. They simply will not be opened if the benchmarks are not met. That won't change a jot. There is total consensus on this in Europe. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I would like to inform the House of a number of initiatives which I will take this week. We must, of course, also wait and see what happens in other countries. In any case, the line is now very critical, also operational. This is how the Council of Europe and the European Union stop funding. At the same time, it is made clear to Turkey that the end will come into sight if it continues with this megaphone diplomacy, which is part of it. I actually said what I wanted to say about the migration deal. It won't waver. Again, I say it in all honesty and openness: we are not going to bargain with the criteria. We just don't do it. The room can check all that. Visa liberalisation has benchmarks. They're not up to seven yet; that's the story. There is no other. We will not be put under any further pressure. That doesn't change the fact that the migration deal itself works well. That's what I keep saying. We have had a lot of debates on this, so I will leave it at that in the light of time. The Chamber also received Mrs Mogherini's last statement on the matter. Then I'll come to Russia. I can also be quite brief about this, because we have had a debate on it recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u65	Mr Sjoerdsma has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u66	I also have something to say about Russia, but I wanted to say something about it in particular. My question is not necessarily about the migration deal with Turkey; it has indeed been said enough, including in other debates. My question is about Sudan. The Minister said in his introduction that realpolitik without values is likely to become cynicism. I therefore ask the Minister to make an assessment of what the European Union is doing now, namely to cooperate fairly intensively with genocidal President Bashir in the area of migration. We're training his border guards, and we're gonna supply supplies. We all know from these border guards that they do not apply our standards. Can the Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u67	I think we have had this debate before. The Dutch Government was against it, but lost that argument in the European Union, and is now committed to managing that project. There are also some sensible elements to it. It has nothing to do with whether Bashir is genocidal or not, but it has to do with the fact that large quantities of refugees are in Sudan that are a problem in any case, not so much for the Sudanese Government but for themselves. They have little future there. The way in which this is implemented must be based on international human rights conventions. I said earlier that I was against this particular project. This is the case in Europe; Mr Sjoerdsma is a strong supporter of European integration. I am going to ensure that this does not go in the direction of a situation similar to what Mr Sjoerdsma describes. I have no information that border guards are being rigged to do all kinds of genocidal things at the borders. I don't recognize that image; I couldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u68	The genocidal things have already happened, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u69	Darfur.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u70	Exactly. Unfortunately, the Minister has as much experience with this as I do. It's about maintaining, accepting and accepting the fact that Khartoum is still the genocidal president. The minister says he's against it, but he was against Eritrea. I think the Minister said in the debate on Eritrea that he was against it. That's when the Minister fell apart. We have not had an exchange of views on this point. So when the Minister says 'we were against this too, we have also been underestimating', I am beginning to wonder how these discussions are going in the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u71	A lot of countries say that they are not friends of the regime, but they also see the refugee problem. If this continues, it will not only increase the risk of further implosion of the country, but will also affect the way in which all kinds of refugee flows are then to take place. The same is true of Ethiopia at the moment. This country too knows the problems of a government that violates human rights and a huge refugee problem. I have understood the message very well; let there be no misunderstanding about it. I have the same concerns as Mr Sjoerdsma. So I don't want to pretend they're less. I said that I am not in favour of this project and that we will have to do the ultimatum in order to at least make it positive. I can perhaps be quite brief about Russia today, because we have talked about it on a regular basis. I do not want to start all sorts of speculations about what Mr Trump wants, whether he will succeed in getting better relations with the Russian Federation and what that would mean to us; Mr Van Bommel asked me to do so. I love it when they have good relationships, but the question is, at the expense of what? Next week are the Minsk discussions, again with France and the United Kingdom. The Dutch Government is not in favour of a partial restriction either, as I say to Mr Van Bommel, as long as the conditions of Minsk are not met. So it might be a bit of a mantra and people don't find it interesting, but I don't think there's anything outside fist, open hand, and leaving communication open. We tried again this week to convene a Russia Council with the Russian Federation and NATO. I am in favour of such contacts and I am committed to doing so, but I continue to note that Russia is playing a risky role in Syria, Ukraine and the extent to which it is trying to exert influence on our edges. I'm not naive at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u72	There is no such naivety in the SP Group either. My group agrees that you must have something to ask for and something to offer and that there must therefore be an open hand and, if necessary, a fist. If we continue to fully comply with all the commitments made in the Minsk agreements, it may be a very long wait. I would like to call on the Minister to look at this process with an open eye and also to appreciate parts of the agreement on their own merits. If the heavy weapons are withdrawn, that is an important step. If autonomy is further completed, that is an important step. It must not be all or nothing, because then we will probably be left with nothing for a very long time and then the people will pay the price.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u73	I understand what you're looking for, but I don't agree with you. It goes day in, day out. I think that Russia should be able to meet the very heavy weapons and the Otherwise, as far as the Dutch Government is concerned, sanctions will continue to exist. The other point is that the Ukrainian Government also has a responsibility. That's true. It will also have to be strongly addressed. It is not just one side, although I want to make it very clear here that the debt is a better term: the greatest responsibility lies on the side of the Russian Federation, because with her help another country has invaded with green males; anyway, you know that whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u74	Sure, I agree with the Minister. That is why we need to keep a close eye on this issue, and that is why there are partners who do this from Europe and from all over the world. So that's only good. The Minister quite rightly reiterated what I said: the heavy weapons in this whole are, of course, the greatest pain point and also the greatest threat to the safety of people there. Of course, that point must be part of the package. As long as there is no movement in this area, we are not in favour of alleviating sanctions. So we are in agreement on that. However, the Minsk agreement contains many more elements. We should not demand that all the requirements be met before we can enter into the discussion, including on sanctions. That's the only call I'd like to make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u75	I can live with that if you say "without having to talk about it." I would like to make no mistake about the fact that, in relation to sanctions, I really believe that the Russian Federation should simply comply with what is contained in the agreement. That's what she agreed with herself. However, if there are positive signs, the conversation can of course be opened on all fronts. That little nuance is important to me. In this context, Mr Grashoff asked questions about energy dependence. Of course, he has a point. We have also discussed this before, including Mr Servaes. I also sent a letter to the Chamber with Mr Kamp on this matter. It is, of course, a question of reducing energy dependence in Europe in any case. Of course, we need to take a good look at how you do that with regard to the Russian Federation. If you want this, you shouldn't do this to make you even more dependent on Saudi Arabia or any other country. It is therefore a question of reducing energy dependence. I would point out to Mr Grashoff that for Europe, although 25% of cubic metres are from Russia, this percentage is very low for the Netherlands, well below 10%. Even if you take the gas roundabout, it's even less than 10%. I can see the problem. We're working on that, too. This has to do with climate policy and the reduction of energy dependence, especially by strengthening the internal energy market, which can reduce this dependence. So I see the point and we are working on it, but I would point out that Russian companies are in no way dominant in the open Dutch market and that alternatives are also available in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u76	What the Minister says about the share of Russian gas in the Netherlands is, of course, correct. Of course, that has a very specific history, with its own Dutch gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u77	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u78	If you look ahead a little longer, you have to note that if we don't get rid of gas as a fuel, the Netherlands too will become dependent on Russian gas, just as much as Germany is now highly dependent. I very much wonder whether a real strategy is being pursued to reduce this dependence and to really get rid of the specific Dutch role as a gas trader, because that gas roundabout indicates a trading function. I continue to note that the Minister's colleague, Mr Kamp, is in fact sticking to that strategy, in the sense that there is already EUR 1 billion or so invested in it, and we are going on for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u79	I don't have anything against that gas roundabout. I fully agree with Mr Kamp on this point. I think it's a good thing we have it. It's okay to trade in gas. There's no problem with that at all. Mr Grashoff asked a political question. He argued that dependence on one, two or three suppliers is not good. I share that view. The same applies to being dependent on the Russian Federation. I have given the figures and mentioned a number of policy measures, which are also contained in the letter, in order to reduce this dependence. There is, of course, also the issue of energy and climate policy. In itself, you should be less dependent on external parties anyway. But Mr Grashoff will soon agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u80	I very much agree with that. As far as we are concerned, that is not hard enough. But does the Minister seriously say that the gas roundabout is not fully focused, at least for the most part, on dealing in Russian gas? Now it seems as if it is a neutral strategy for gas. But that gas comes from somewhere, mostly from Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u81	Those aren't the data I have. I've told you that before. I believe that Norway is the largest party in this respect. We can sort out the letter, but I have just told you that just under 10% of the gas traded in the Netherlands came from Russia. That is not at all the most, far from it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u82	The Minister says that it is very difficult at the moment to conduct a proper dialogue with Russia, for example in the NATO Council. I recognize that, of course. But there are also people in Russia, even within Putin's camp, who say: that aggressive attitude of Russia, that torturing the military drum, and such is not good for our country at all, because it makes us economically and technologically backward and ultimately only suffers from it. Does the government attempt to contact them in particular, even those from Putin's camp, such as a former Minister of Economic Affairs recently, perhaps to discuss with them such things that they also have something to offer in the discussion in Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u83	That's a very good question. The honest answer is: yes, but to a limited extent, but not out of unwillingness. There's a big problem. Even in the Cold War there have been periods in which there was still good consultation with, at that time, the Soviet Union. There were also people around the leadership who came to the West for talks, as is the case in diplomatic relations, in which contact is sought with various elements of society. That is very difficult at the moment. People don't dare speak. People feel too limited to travel. We have tried on a number of points. We will continue to do so, but I must honestly say that this is not easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u85	I think I have already talked enough about the role of the United States in Europe. I am not quite sure whether I have answered Mr Monasch's question sufficiently in this area. I don't think so. Maybe he wants to come back to it. I don't want to challenge him, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u86	So you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u87	Today's debate is about Europe. Mr Monasch spoke of self-reflection. I would like to tell him that the Dutch Government is very aware of the direction and speed of European integration. I also said where it came from. It was time there was a legislative machine, which was mainly related to the internal market. Now we are faced with a number of problems related to external borders, migration and security, which require a very different way of decision-making, in which the sovereignty of countries is also much more directly involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u88	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u89	I asked another question about the missiles in Kaliningrad. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u90	Sure, thank you. That's true. Mr Bontes asked this because Russia is installing new rocket systems that could possibly be equipped with nuclear weapons. I'm very concerned about that. This is also happening along the borders of some NATO alliance members. The installation of dual-capacity rocket systems in Kaliningrad is an example of this. That increases tension with Russia. That is why, at the last NATO summit, we sought answers to this threat precisely in terms of deterrence and defence. I very much agree with Mr Bontes that this is a matter of great concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u91	What exactly is being done about it? What's the Minister gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u92	It is not unknown that this is happening. We need to distinguish between a number of elements. I refer to the strategy and tactics of the Russians and how they use and abuse nuclear weapons in propaganda. Strategic communication plays a major role in this. There is also our own atomic umbrella. In this context, NATO is convinced that we have an adequate response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u93	Let me try to go through that self-reflection with the Minister in the second round in peace. He is the Foreign Minister, with a broad responsibility within Europe. There are two points that lead to a great deal of discontent. First of all... The Deputy Prime Minister is currently on the move and says: Europe must change radically because the free movement of workers has led to a disaster at the bottom of the labour market. Would the Minister like to reflect on that? This is because of freedom of movement in Europe. Secondly, someone like Hans Biesheuvel, the chairman of ONL (Entrepreneurship Netherlands), doesn't write someone you can suspect of anti-European sentiments, in De Telegraaf: Starbucks, fuck off. He does not do that because there is something wrong with the cocoa picking or the coffee picking in Africa, but because Starbucks enjoys unfair tax advantages through constructions in European countries, which means that ordinary entrepreneurs who open a coffee shop are competing away. Maybe that's where the much greater concern lies. I hope we still share that concern. Would the Minister like to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u94	With pleasure, because I think Mr Monasch has a very important point there. This has to do with not only the speed but also, above all, the direction of European integration. While we need the internal market enormously, for example for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the digital market and for the creation of jobs, at the same time many people feel that the losers, the people who feel socially in difficulty, are taking less advantage of it. I think that's a real concern. It also means that Mr Asscher's plea is simply cabinet policy. I cannot, of course, accept his candidacy for the leadership of the Labour Party. We have been committed to this point for two years: equal pay for equal work in the same country. That is a tough fight that we are now engaged in with a number of Eastern European countries. I believe that compromises should and can be possible. I would also point out that this is perhaps a difference of opinion with Mr Monasch. Of course, social systems and the minimum social conditions must remain national sovereignty, even when it comes to taxation. But there's an issue there. Indeed, if this competition continues to go to the bottom, you will have to make European agreements on a number of points, for example in the field of tax evasion. I am very much in favour of that. Mr Monasch has also been able to see that there has been a change during this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u95	I'm very happy about that change. I merely call on the Minister to take these points into account in his reflection on Europe. There are values in Europe that favour big business. Look at the procurement laws that are organized. Look at the tax laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u96	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u97	These are not the losses of globalisation; they are wrong values which lead to the disappearance of beautiful occupations in the construction or transport sector. This is because of the wrong starting points in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u98	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u99	It's a combination of two things. There is a one-sided Europe, which is why the Chamber in the Bratislava Cabinet letter clearly sees what the social component should be and how it should be strengthened. But take a country like the United Kingdom. This simply competes on low wages and has subsequently added a number of social elements. Now it says: freedom of movement must not be allowed, because then we suddenly get too many people here. That's the problem. The country is trying to attract business through capital taxes and low wages. You will have to do something about that in Europe. That is why I am opposed to the feeling of 'the people do not want Europe'. No, it does not want a Europe that is one-sided and does too much. It wants a Europe that is effective in a number of respects. That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u100	I would like to return to the subject of Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u101	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u102	I am very concerned about the Russian attempts to influence elections, and we saw that again with the United States of America and the European Union to break up. When I look at all the things that are happening now, and at the concerns that, for example, exist in Germany about possible Russian influence on the upcoming elections there, I wonder whether we in the Netherlands are sufficiently armed against such influence. More specifically, would it not be wise for the Netherlands, as long as there are sanctions against Russia, to restrict Russian funding of political parties and associated organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u103	The strength of European society is that it protects itself from it. I have already answered a number of questions in writing. As far as possible investigations by the intelligence services are concerned, I cannot, of course, inform the Chamber publicly of whether they are taking place and, if so, how they are taking place. Of course, the Dutch Government is alert to this problem. For the rest, I would like to leave it to the various actors in the field themselves because those men are enough to be able to do so at least in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u104	I understand very well that the Minister cannot comment on ongoing investigations. But we also know that the CIA is investigating. That's not gonna be for nothing. Of course, we don't know what's coming out of it either. But it does give cause to think something like that. There are more reasons, from WikiLeaks to the contact with Trump's campaign team to the money that Marine Le Pen received from Russia. This is not only about covert operations behind the scenes, but also about overt influence. I am asking a question about this, because otherwise it seems as if the Minister simply thinks it is acceptable that this kind of influence should take place. Shouldn't we be doing something about this Russian influence in our regulations? We see what happened in France through funding. Should we not also restrict this in the Netherlands, especially as long as there are sanctions against Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u105	I just don't have any concrete data or facts on active influence or financial support. Then I'm not gonna make any rules about it either. I can't answer any more clearly. I'm coming to the MOVP, the Middle East Peace Process. We talk about this all the time, so maybe I can be brief. We are really trying to be active on a number of points. Members all know the situation. It's bad. Members have been briefed on the fact that there are totally new strategic situations in the Middle East. As a result, Israel is working more closely with China, Saudi Arabia and Egypt than the Palestinians with the Arab world. The Netherlands remains in favour of a two-state solution. We are very active in this. I spoke to the French Foreign Minister on Monday, who is not going to let it go. I like that. We cannot wait every time, for example for an interim from the US Government or if there are elections elsewhere. He's continuing the initiative. I support that. It is precisely when things are bad that we do a lot to ensure that people do not get worse. I think the reconciliation projects are really important. They don't offer a solution, I realize that very well, but they are important to sustain it, because people are now separated from each other. As far as support for the Palestinian Authority is concerned, we are working on very active measures. Mr Ten Broeke rightly pointed out that the Netherlands is active in the field of gas and electricity. I have informed the French about this and they are very positive about it. That is not a solution either, but we are the only ones who are doing something at the moment. I believe that within the possibilities we have, we are committed to the greatest possible extent. The same applies to the European Union. I know all the questions on this subject. I have answered many questions in writing, for example on prisons. On BDS (Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions) we may come back. There are also dilemmas in that. We have reconciliation projects supported. Almost all these groups are for BDS. You want me to stop these projects right now? The point is that the Dutch Government must not accept the imposition of sanctions on Israel. That is our position. When we talk about the Middle East Peace Process, I always get a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u106	I would first like to know if you have completed this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u107	I think so. I can make a lot of comments about it, and I'd like to do that, too, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u108	No. I give the floor to Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u109	The image is familiar: The Netherlands does quite a lot to play a role in the conflict, to make sure that the pain is softened, to make sure that there are some trucks and some scanners and that a contribution is made. Chapeau for that! Absolutely. The Netherlands is at the forefront of this and that is very good. But is it not time to look at the parties themselves and put pressure on them? What the Netherlands is doing is good, and it must continue to do so, but if we do not push and pull on the other side too, we are sure that we will remain jointly responsible for the well-being of people who are victims of politics there, while we do not play a role in the political process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u110	I really disagree with that. The Dutch Government is very active in the field of political negotiations. The only solution is a two-state political solution, and everyone is looking with me for the possibilities of chording and criticizing it. We do that to the Palestinian Authority, and I hope that he will finally hold that election. It's about the unity between PA and Hamas. That's really hard, no matter what we do. We are trying to do something about this before and behind the scenes, even with the Arab countries. The same applies to Israel. His prime minister has been here and we have been very strong about the settlements. At the same time, we have been able to regain confidence in a few elements through the point of gas. That's not nothing, because it's about survival in Gaza. I can say here that I am going to solve the Middle East process, as if it were small beer, but I would point out that the policy of confidence can be rebuilt along those channels. Am I satisfied with that? No, of course not. I would have preferred the French proposal to have gone further. I regret that the Israelis are not participating. I can't change this alone. We also play a solid role in the European Union. Then it's just as well about the question of recognition. Apart from Sweden, France will not do so now. They're gonna do that when it fits strategically into the negotiations. That is why I have changed the policy over the past two years. When that moment comes, we will, but not before and not after.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u111	The Minister is right: it is about survival. At this level, we are at the moment: to survive in Gaza, to ensure that there is sufficient food and sufficient energy to survive. It is also said that it is too much to die of and too little to live on. We know that, in the long term, 2020, it will not be possible to save it with the current efforts. However, thanks and praise to the Minister for the continued efforts of the Netherlands. But then there's the political process. The minister calls the settlements. You could also talk about the construction, non-building and demolition of structures in the C-areas and all kinds of other things. We see that the facts on the ground indicate that the two-state solution that the Minister believes everyone is for is not, so I have to say that what everyone would be for is not possible anymore. Does the Minister also see that this point is approaching and that we must therefore also propose political steps from the Netherlands at some point to keep pressure on the process, albeit recognition, albeit other matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u112	I said what I said about the expansion of settlements. It is contrary to the objective of a two-state solution. The increase in the demolition of Palestinian buildings in the West Bank, which we have seen over the past year, is added. The Prime Minister spoke about this directly with the Israeli Prime Minister during his visit. We will try to continue to exert pressure in all kinds of ways. I now report on the situation and how we can operate as far as possible in order to produce effects. That this is not enough, I very much agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u113	We cannot ask for this two-state solution more than the people who ultimately have to proclaim or recognise those two states or live in them. We can, however, ensure that the suffering of Palestinians is alleviated as much as possible. Not all countries are allowed to do that either. I said a few things about that yesterday. I can repeat those compliments, but I won't. Perhaps it would be a good idea to quote Pierre Krähenbühl, the director of UNRWA, who has also been very complimentary about this. He said that one country could at least provide concrete relief in Gaza. This is exactly the example that we mentioned yesterday in the debate and which was the subject of the debate this morning. You can only exert political pressure on parties to sit around the table if you also have a leverage. The Netherlands has no leverage if we are sidelined and lose ourselves only in fine declarations and declamations. The only thing that matters is that the Netherlands gets the parties convincingly at the table because they also want to play a convincing role. That's what we do there. But now the interior, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u114	But what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u115	It's about BDS. The minister just said...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u116	For the people listening in: that's an abbreviation of?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u117	"Boycott, Diversity and Sanctions," i.e. boycotting, disinvesting and imposing sanctions on Israel because people believe that this helps to promote peace in the Middle East. That is a ridiculous idea, but the necessary clubs are of that opinion. Those clubs receive indirect funding from the Dutch State, which is again against this objective. The Minister then says: I declare that I am against this, but then I find it difficult to support all these clubs anymore. I'm gonna tell the Minister, you can do that. You can appeal to those clubs and say that as long as they embrace those goals, you will ensure that they, if they organise a seminar or if they speak along that line...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u118	This is a really long introduction, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u119	I don't get up very often.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u120	But if you get up...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u121	...I'll be there, too. You can very well withdraw or limit these subsidies. I just think this should happen. It runs counter to Dutch policy. It helps the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u122	In the letter on the implementation of the motion, I described in detail how I feel about it. I'm against BDS. I very much agree with Mr Ten Broeke. We do not finance activities in the field of BDS. I have shown in the letter that, since that motion, I have been trying to retrieve some direct activity in one area where it was possible to do so. I would like to point out that almost all the projects that are being discussed here are those for BDS. For example, the CDA asked me about the Union of Agricultural Work Committees. Think also of the projects related to reconciliation. We can like that or not, but that's the case. I am not going to finance projects in which they want to express this. The majority of the Chamber doesn't want this either. Nor do we do it indirectly, but then we can also stop all kinds of EU projects, UNEP projects, reconciliation projects and the Union of Agricultural Work Committees. However, I do not think this is wise. This has nothing to do with the problem involved, namely that the Dutch Government does not want to contribute to financing this campaign which it does not support and which it opposes. I can't make it any brighter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u123	I come with the reverse statement made by Mr Ten Broeke. Does the Minister agree with me that the whole thing would be crazy if we made subsidies in the Netherlands, in our rule of law, dependent on whether an organisation agrees with the current, majority, government policy in terms of vision and objectives? Then we can also remove subsidies for the environmental federations or for the SGP. Mr Ten Broeke is taking an idiotic view on this point, isn't he? Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u124	You can put a question to Mr Ten Broeke, but not to me about Mr Ten Broeke. That's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u125	That's a little too easy. I understand that the Minister is not going to say that what Mr Ten Broeke says is crazy. He can be sharper about the principles you apply in subsidising critical institutions of all kinds and sizes in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u126	I'll tell you how I feel about it. I'm in favour of freedom of speech. I am against a boycott of Israel. I think that's a bad idea. In the Netherlands, too, we are not going to finance organisations that want to exclude or boycott one party. We also do not support racist or anti-Semitic organisations. So that's not a golden rule. I say to those who want to cut short on the Palestinians or on the Israelis: I am against boycott measures. I have also seen an amendment which says that I must deduct money from the PLO or the Palestinian Authority. We will not finance activities directly or indirectly related to BDS. However, I said that there really is an interpretation issue. I have been asked to support the Union of Agricultural Work Committees, the Tent of Nations and the Women's Centre for Legal Aid and Counselling. In the Palestinian Authority, the vast majority of people are in favour of boycott. We can either regret that or not. They think that is a more peaceful method than any other. I don't think so. I'm not going to actively support this either. I think there's freedom of speech, and so I'm carrying out that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u127	The Minister has already answered a number of questions. He does not pay direct funding, but we do have a problem indirectly when it comes to the objectives of the organisations. I'm worried about that, and the Minister might be worried about it, too. Should it be the case that the organisation that we indirectly funded has BDS explicitly in its objective, then it becomes very explicit. Then the Minister can say that the project request is about agriculture, water and so on, but if the objective and most of the activities are aimed at BDS, isn't that a clear signal to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u128	That would be a signal, you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u129	Then we still have a list of organisations that we support at the moment...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u130	That's what I was afraid of, because you're coming right up with your list of things you can't do. I am trying to point out that a large number of organisations that you want to support, including the reconciliation projects, include people who support the BDS. Then I'll move it in tomorrow. Everyone has that dilemma, directly and indirectly. Let us not take each other's measure in the MOVP, every time, as if I were secretly supporting people who are for boycotts. Of course I'm not gonna do that. I understand the room. But if you really want to look at the sharpness of the cut every time as if we are planning to support something that is anti-Semitic or the BDS... I'm not gonna do that. I'm not gonna support that. I'm against it. You'll have to trust me to do it in the light of what's in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u131	I trust this minister, but I also think he will help me to clarify where the line is. If we put the line on organisations that have incorporated it very explicitly into their objectives, which have been set up to implement the BDS, then the Minister and I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u132	It does not lend itself... let me mention the example of the Union of Agricultural Work Committees. This is an implementation in the interests of the Chamber, which attaches great importance to the ability of Palestinian farmers to continue working in Area C. The Union supports Tent of Nations. I've been asked to support that. Those people are for a BDS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u133	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u134	I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u135	I have nothing else to add. We're going to proceed with the motion. I'm gonna take a good look at it. I understood the spirit and the text of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u136	However, I would like to say a few words about the moment of recognition of Palestine. The Minister said earlier that it should be done at a strategic time when it is real and effective for the peace process. I think that is a position to be supported. At the same time, however, we must note that the chances of such a peace process have only diminished. The French peace initiative is in danger of being cancelled. The Israelis will only continue to create facts on the ground. I'm asking the Minister if that strategic moment isn't just today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u137	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u138	Most of the time there will be an explanation. I'd think that would be wise now, too. I am afraid that this minister will otherwise become a kind of Hans Hillen CDA, who suddenly finds out that he would have wanted to do things differently during his presidency. There aren't many moments left to do things differently. If you hear that Education Minister Nafali Bennett, on behalf of Netanyahu, says to the Americans that they are going to annex and ask for support, and if you hear that Trump wants to move the embassy to Jerusalem and recognize Jerusalem as its capital, then this minister must see with me that the window of opportunity is getting smaller and smaller. If he wants to save the negotiations, there must be two equal partners. My group believes that this can only be done if it is recognised now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u139	I would advise you to perhaps talk to Mr Al-Maliki or all the Palestinians who regularly consult me. They totally don't think there's a Hillen moment coming. On the contrary. They have great faith in what the Netherlands is doing in the European Union, with the French, on the projects I mentioned. I'm not against recognition. To be honest, I did. With the French, with almost all the countries in the European Union where your party is to the government, I have exactly the same position. We're not against it, but we said you can only use this once. We'll do that strategically. That is not when peace negotiations have not yet begun. Am I saying that it's ever been ruled out? Of course not. However, I also have to deal with a serious reality. Take one thing from me: if I do it tomorrow, it doesn't matter at all to the situation on the ground. That's why you're supposed to be doing it strategically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u140	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u141	I would like to come to the point made by Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Sjoerdsma about the Franco-Mexican initiative to the Security Council on mass atrocities. I can say that the Netherlands has already expressed strong support for this initiative. We'll keep doing this. I refer to the guidance letter for the UNVN. We are working very actively, now also in preparation with Italy, to bring it forward. I would point out, however, that every time reality shows that it is not happening, especially the Russian Federation and sometimes other countries. However, I very much agree with you on this point. I see this as a support to continue to raise the issue strongly. Mr Van der Staaij spoke about the peace processes in Colombia. That is exactly the point we raised earlier. A peace process means making choices, patience, formal and informal mediators and courage. You have to create a future for both sides. If there isn't, it's not gonna work. You should also know that your politics is well supported in the country where you are. That is now the big point in Colombia. By the way, you can see that the peace agreement is being fought in strictly evangelical circles in Colombia. I'm sorry about that. Previously, this group supported former President Uribe. I hope that this struggle will not continue in religious terms, so the relationship between Catholicism and the Evangelical Church. You really need to make sure it's widely supported. That would be my answer to Mr Van der Staaij. There are no cuts in human rights. The budget was occasionally increased in 2016. This is without prejudice to the fact that I would like to see an additional amount released, as requested by the Labour Party. I would point out that the Foreign Affairs budget is tight, based on your common understanding of the macro-economic framework and the terms of trade. However, given the human rights situation, I will look positively at an increase in the budget. Mr Servaes asked for ratification of the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. As I recently promised to the Chamber, the cabinet will return to this matter by December at the latest. The Protocol gives citizens direct access to an authoritative international body if they consider that the State has violated their economic, social or cultural rights. We have known this right for a long time in terms of civil and political rights, but there is not yet a right of complaint for the ESC. That's a little more complicated, too. A number of questions still need to be answered, but I have listened carefully to Mr Servaes. In the field of disarmament, I can be quite brief. We are also active there, for example when it came to the NATO declaration in July, where I thought it important that reference was made to the NPT and not to the automatic mirroring of the nuclear problem in the Russian Federation. We have also carried out the motion to participate in the negotiations on the UN resolution. I would point out, however, that I was disappointed that at the end there was so little room for Mexican and Austrian colleagues to meet a number of our wishes. Those wishes had to do with: if you write off nuclear weapons, can you verify that correctly? I wanted that in, but none of that was possible at all. I'm sorry to hear that; that's why I abstained. That has indeed brought great pressure, including from NATO colleagues. However, given the nature of the wishes of the Chamber and my own view on this, I thought it important to do so. The last point concerns consular assistance to Dutch people abroad. I fully agree with all those who say that consular services to Dutch people abroad are crucial. Dutch in need always get priority. I see this as a core task of the Foreign Office. We use a large part of our device for the consular function: almost 10%. Around 700 consular staff in The Hague and at the posts are engaged in consular assistance to Dutch people in distress and inmates and with passport and visa granting. It is therefore certainly not true that consular assistance to Dutch people in need would have been reduced abroad. I'm really gonna distance myself from that. It is precisely the consular services that have been invested. In general, Dutch people are very satisfied about it. The redesign of the consular functions is part of the modernisation process at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was deployed in accordance with the Chamber in 2014. The services to Dutch people have improved. We have a 24/7 travel app, as well as a phone number where people can visit seven days a week. Our travel advice is now consulted 2 million times a year. We have pop-up ambassadors at major events. Each year, we provide consular assistance to a thousand people. I'll mention the help with missing persons, kidnapping and hospitalizations. Mr Ten Broeke has made a good suggestion to do even better. We are investigating whether external services can take over passport applications in a responsible manner. This brings consular services even closer to the customer. Inmates form a special category. Those numbers don't lie. We have an average of 2,100 Dutch prisoners abroad. That number has been stable for years. The budget for detention counseling remains the same in the coming years. The legal process of Dutch people abroad is often difficult. There is another language and sometimes there are lengthy procedures and detentions. There are few pro-deo attorneys and there is a lack of other facilities. We are trying to assist all those inmates as best we can. I use a lot of my time for that, even in difficult cases. BZ has awarded a grant to the independent legal advisory organisation, PrisonLAW. This organisation provides legal advice to Dutch prisoners abroad and has produced good results. I refer to the difficult case of Romano van der Dussen. After his return, I was allowed to speak with him. But a foreign minister isn't about guilt and innocence. That's what the judge's up to. We have international principles to respect. I cannot intervene in the course of justice in other countries. Death sentences are a separate category. We know what we have done with Indonesia in the light of the financing of special lawyers. I think it is important to keep a constant finger on the wrist. Are we doing well enough? Do we have enough people? I am truly convinced that we are doing this in an appropriate and good way. I'm getting to the point of marriage control. I would like to respond to Mr Ten Broeke's call for more to be done for girls who are victims of wedlock.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u142	Mr Ten Broeke rightly points out that it is wise to interrupt now. I am convinced that many of the minister's staff and also the minister himself are fully committed to the Dutch abroad. But I'm also convinced that sometimes it really gets in the way of capacity. It is about everyday services, but also about very difficult cases. I mentioned a few myself. I have read the written answers, but about Singh in California, the Prime Minister has handed in a letter to support the parole request. But the governor's answer is not clear. I would like to know what that answer is. Then there's the Van Laarhoven case. The Netherlands has made sure that this man is detained in Thailand with a request. The Netherlands therefore has a slightly different position in this case. Does this minister do everything in his power to get this consulate right? I am in possession of letters from this man, in which he very, very much complains about the consular services. Then Mr De Bruijn. I fully agree with the Minister that we cannot act in guilt and innocence, but we can act in a slow course of justice. This gentleman has been under land arrest in India for more than two years. Then we can say: could we perhaps speed it up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u143	On all these points, I am very active within my capabilities and doing what we can. I am very regularly, almost daily, informed about all these matters. It is not in the interests of these individuals to have another public debate on this. I take these matters very seriously. I'm going to the edge of what we can do. I see these people as my clients. I'll continue with that. With all due respect to Mr Sjoerdsma, there is sometimes a lot in the media, but he can assume that I am doing this in a good way. I have indicated this more specifically in the answers to the questions. I do not want to go into individual cases in the interests of the people who are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u144	With all due respect, this is really a non-answer, a bullshit answer. I agree with the Minister very often that you really need to be careful, but these are exactly three cases where we are a little over that stage. Mr Singh simply wants to know what the governor's answer is. Mr Van Laarhoven wants to know why he is only visited once a year. Mr De Bruijn wants to know whether the Minister is going to ask if the process can be speeded up. In the written replies, the Minister indicated that he would not do so. I'm asking him today to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u145	There are so many untruths in this question as well. I'm not going public with this. Mr Van Laarhoven is not visited at all once a year. I've just been to Thailand; I'm working on that case. I am really sorry for Mr Sjoerdsma, but I do not go public on these matters, especially in the interests of the people who are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u146	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u147	No, Mr Sjoerdsma, you have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u148	Then I'm gonna get married. I would like to respond to Mr Ten Broeke's call for more to be done for girls who are victims of wedlock. He has tabled an amendment to that effect. I have to look at what we are going to do with this in conjunction with other amendments. I suggest that we do everything in our power to stand up for these girls and young women. We must continue to pool all knowledge and skills and help to return victims to the Netherlands. The victims deserve every possible protection. I do not go into individual cases here either, as I say to Mr Ten Broeke. He doesn't want that either. Foreign Affairs gives the highest priority to this kind of degrading business. The Netherlands established its own Forced Marriage Unit in 2015, namely the National Node Node Wedding Control and Abandonment. This hub has been set up according to the British example and brings together all Dutch public authorities, including at local level, who are committed to helping victims of marriage coercion and abandonment. This approach is best suited to our reality. The recent evaluation of the node is positive. The approach works. So the node has proven itself. It coordinates and acts in response to signals of marriage coercion and abandonment and builds up expertise on this subject in the Netherlands. Then it's about direct signals in the Netherlands of marriage coercion. This is the subject of consultation with local authorities. If necessary, victims will be taken care of abroad. There is repatriation to the Netherlands including facilitation in the form of tickets, travel documents and contacts with local authorities and NGOs. After that there is help in the Netherlands. The Dutch approach is laid down in a letter to the House of Representatives. Last year, 24 and in 2016 so far, 29 cases were dealt with by the national hub. We're in the middle of six ongoing cases. The above mentioned number of more than 100 is unknown to me. I do not know whether more results can be achieved than is currently the case, but we must continue to strive for them all. In that sense, I am pleased that this item has been put back on the agenda. I am open to making a quick proposal to the Chamber to step up the use of foreign affairs, which builds on the evaluation. Perhaps we can use people and resources more effectively to assist victims. I still have to look into that. I am not saying this in order to hold it off, because I think the importance of this issue is so great that I certainly want to contribute to it. We do this together SoZaWe, V and J, OCW, VWS and BZK. That is the only way we can work effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u149	That node's fine. That is where action is being taken, but very often above and beyond the call of duty, I would like to say. The node is now mainly a knowledge centre. The differences with Norway and the United Kingdom are still very large. I really want to turn it into an action center. It must be a unit that can act actively. It should be part of the consular assistance. In some countries specific knowledge and people should be present at the consulate. One could think of Turkey, Pakistan and one or two African countries. The British do it this way. They come up with very different figures. I admit immediately that it is difficult to get good grades in the Netherlands. The readings are very poor. We have to start with that. Safe care is provided for girls and young women who have been affected by this. If they are awaiting a travel document, they often have to look for money for a ticket. This is not in all cases regulated. Those are exactly the moments when you need to intervene. It's a very difficult problem. The chairman knows that, too. She has put it forward herself in the past. It is not a criticism of what is going on, but I would very much like us to add one or two strong teeth. This really needs more people and more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u150	Thank you for this comment by Mr Ten Broeke. I understand what he's saying. I wanted to point out how important the Dutch Government considers this to be. He says there's a reason to put a tooth in it. We're gonna take a serious look at that. This brings me to the end of my first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u151	Maybe there's been a question left. I see Mr Knops coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u152	I have asked a number of questions about radical Islam in the first term. I referred to the French Prime Minister. Again it appears that through the embassy in the Netherlands a mosque in Denmark is financed with salafistic ideas. In view of the threat from abroad that we are increasingly facing here, I would not like to leave this unspoken and I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u153	Let me say two things about it. I don't want to put it away, but we sent a solid letter to the Chamber on the financing of salafist organizations. If it's okay, it was sent today or yesterday. I would like to discuss this in greater depth with you. I share your concerns about the possibilities of financing projects in the Netherlands which are not in accordance with the democratic rule of law. I believe that action should be taken against this. You agree with me, so we share these serious concerns. You always have to think about how, within the framework of freedom of religion, you can take effective action against people who abuse religion in order to undermine the democratic rule of law here. I am quite strong in that, because I do not think that is acceptable. I am now seriously engaged in much more than a dialogue with agreements with a number of countries in the Gulf, precisely because these countries themselves are aware of the importance of this, because this leads to all kinds of problems in Europe with a number of groups from which they have now also taken a greater distance. I'd like to discuss that more closely with you. I've never been very difficult about the relationship between Islam and terror. Terror in the world is inspired by different motives. We've had anarchist terror. I've just been to Asia, where you can also see forms of Buddhist terror. Indeed, there is now a specific problem with large numbers of people inspired by fundamentalist Islam. That's a problem in itself, that's a fight within Islam. It's a fight between violence and peace. It's okay to call it that. I don't have a problem with that. I would add that 99% of Islamists in the world are not terrorists. I would be very sorry if we were to remove the great allies we need from us. I know you don't mean that, but I have no difficulty in naming the problem like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u154	The Minister is right to say that I do not mean that, but that I do name the problem as such, because it has a major impact. The fact that Qatar's embassy in the Netherlands is funding a mosque in another European country makes it clear that the whole network we have been talking about before is a huge problem that we should not underestimate. I understand from the Minister's answers that he doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u155	We'll come back to it later. We're just trying to strengthen relations with Qatar. I do not know this particular case and will look into it. However, I would point out that Qatar's embassy is also accredited here in Copenhagen. I don't know exactly how things turned out and what happened there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u156	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. We shall now proceed to the second term. But before we do that, I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u157	We shall continue with the second deadline for the examination of the Foreign Affairs budget. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u158	Mr. Chairman. In debates on the human rights note and the budget, in fact, all the conflicts in the world pass. It is logical that we flew all these conflicts from the human rights note last week. Today we are doing this more from the political point of view. What is the world doing to see with what means, in the end, of using the military means, but where that can also be done without that means, those conflicts can be brought to an end? Today, just like yesterday, a great deal of attention has been paid to Syria and Iraq, but above all to Syria. The Minister has actually stood there with his hands in the air: what on earth can we do to put an end to this terrible conflict with hundreds of thousands of deaths and at least prevent it from leading to a greater catastrophe in the region and also in the country itself? The Minister said that he wanted to keep all the options open. I share that view. This must be done, given the state of play in Syria and the involvement of major powers. Russia and America, but also Turkey and other countries in the region play a role there. However, this is not always a role that we can be pleased with. They're often spoilers. It is often parties that exacerbate the conflict, deepen it, and make it less easy to reach a solution. A temporary solution, as often suggested, is a corridor, a safe zone. How are you gonna do that? With a no-fly zone or not? Those are all difficult issues. There is no doubt that humanitarian aid must be available. I welcome the Minister's written reply, which shows that the Netherlands is taking its fair share, its fair share, to ensure that something can be done for the people of this region. In the period 2016-2017 there is a large contribution from the Netherlands of 360 million euros for structural reception. I find that reassuring. The emphasis on the political solution must remain. On this point, too, the Minister does not disappoint. However, I think I have paid a great deal of attention in my first term to the fact that we have seen the relationship between the way in which the West operates in this part of the world and the terrorist threat that exists for the whole region and ultimately for Europe too, and we have seen very terrible examples of this, because we need to study it even more, for our own security and also for a good balance in the efforts that we could make in that region to put a stop to that terrorism. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that after more than 15 years of military war against terrorism, Al-Qaida and similar groups have not been defeated but have increased in scale and strength;]] [[Calls on the International Affairs Advisory Council to investigate the relationship between military intervention and terrorist threat and the lessons to be learned from the military fight against terrorism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u159	There is also a great deal of attention for Turkey, both for its role in the region and for the situation in Turkey itself. We have been able to pay a great deal of attention to this at the NATO Assembly, where we were present with a large Dutch delegation, not least because parliamentarians are threatened with long-term prison sentences and sometimes with an increased life sentence for political reasons. That's unheard of. That is why I think it is very important for the Netherlands to do everything in its power to follow the processes that are being carried out there. The NATO Assembly asked if we could visit prisoners. The answer to that remained in the air. That would still be looked at. I ask the Minister to pay attention from the Dutch embassy to the position of parliamentarians, in this case HDP MPs and possibly others, who are imprisoned in Turkey, to see whether these processes are fair and perhaps even to visit them if possible. What is happening here affects everything that has to do with the state of law. The Netherlands has a name to uphold in this respect. I also believe that there should be more pressure on the process in Turkey. We can do this through the leverage of the European Union. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the aftermath of the failed coup, Turkey abandoned the principles of the rule of law and democracy;]] [[calls on the Government, at EU level, to call for the suspension of negotiations on Turkey's accession to the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u160	In this motion, I speak explicitly of suspending, not aborting or stopping, because if you did that, you would lose all your resources. That is not what our partners in Turkey are asking for either. They also say: don't close that door, but make sure there's more pressure. That could also be done by means of the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey is engaged in war crimes in the Kurdish south-east of the country;]] [[Considering that Turkey is carrying out a military operation in northern Syria that is primarily aimed at countering the advance of Kurdish fighters fighting against Islamic State;]] [[calls on the Government, within the framework of EU and NATO, to call for the suspension of arms supplies to Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u161	Given the limited time available, I will explain my last theme, nuclear disarmament, only in one sentence. Now is the start of the negotiations. The Netherlands participates, but the question is with what effort. The Servaes motion was clear on that point: in the end it must lead to an international ban on the possession and use of nuclear weapons. Does the Minister share that view? Finally, I have a final motion on the Middle East peace process, because this is the last chance for me but also perhaps for this minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, the Palestinian State, to recognise,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u162	Mr. Chairman. This budget amounts to 9 billion, but 8 billion of it goes to European cooperation. That indicates a little bit of what space we have in the Foreign Office. We may always take ample speaking time, but the real accents we place here are very small, even if our wishes are often very large. Nevertheless, I believe that with that little money, the Netherlands can achieve beautiful things and distinguish itself. For example, look at a project like Shelter City, where human rights activists are housed. I was pleased with the Minister's reply on the repatriation of forced brides, but we do have to look at how we are going to shape it. We really need to repatriate. We should not just shape it, we should really be on top of it. We can improve people's lives in this way, not to say, even save them. That's why I proposed a real Forced Marriage Unit. For this reason, I will reject other proposals from my fellow Members in which the specific objective is not sufficiently clear as far as I am concerned. Proposals are being made to remove money from consular activities carried out by the Netherlands for the benefit of its own citizens, a core task, and to give this to trade unions abroad, for example. I'm against that. I don't think that's a good part of foreign policy. I do not think that is part of the core task. In a sector in which it is very difficult to achieve results, I want to have a budget with real results for our own people, for our own citizens, because that is where our interests manifest themselves first. This also means that we must do everything in our power to show what our spending is and that we are very keen on spending. Foreign policy is very often a little vague, a little highbrow. Very often I come from the Chamber and my colleagues who do infrastructure ask: have you started the peace process again or resolved the Middle East conflict? Perhaps this will work after Van Bommel's last motion; I will give it a lot of thought. The refugee crisis, which I have discussed extensively, is an example of what spectacular foreign policy can produce. Last week the VVD and this budget had a lot of criticism, not only of the way in which we sometimes shape our human rights policy but also of the way in which, in my view, we do not have enough realpolitik, but not of the policy as such. I am still firmly convinced that human rights policy must indeed be at the heart, perhaps even the cornerstone, of our foreign policy. But then you must be able to continue to shape that concretely. Then you need to find the leverage, the lever we can use. Robert Kennedy once said, "The harpest criticism goes hand in hand with the deepest idealism." His brother, JFK, said, "A real idealist, I am, but without illusions." I feel very much at home with that, and therefore with Mr Servaes' speech, which Robert Kennedy also referred to. That means for me: less round tables, fewer seminars, and, according to the IOB's note, awareness and sharper criticism of human rights policy, more projects like Shelter City and more projects like the Forced Marriage Unit. Concrete, tangible and measurable. Better to save a man than always to save all mankind, says a beautiful Jewish proverb. That is why, unlike the Minister, I believe in a geographical focus and not just in a thematic one. I do not think we need to promote IBT rights in Germany, but I am very much in favour of continuing to do so. At a time when the support for policies, for all policies, and certainly for foreign policies, for participation in peacekeeping, is declining, we will also have to do more to justify them. This applies to all our work here, and that certainly also applies to foreign policy. This Minister has made a particular effort to this end. He deserves praise for that. It can sometimes be sharper and better, but I do not want to under stand the praise and appreciation of this Minister. Let's just say I'm glad that the debate on this is now alive, and we're also realistic about what we're capable of and what our reach is. In my view, Dutch foreign policy must be a synthesis of both visions. This is perhaps best reflected in Article 97 of our Constitution, in which the defence and protection of the interests of the Kingdom go hand in hand with the promotion of the international legal order. But we must be honest: morality follows a strong foreign policy driven by interests. A strong country with a strong economy, a strong defence, a good diplomatic apparatus and a good consular service can afford to raise its finger from time to time. The end result must be pure, not the means. That means you have to get your hands dirty every now and then. We have seen several examples of this. Michael Walzer said: "A politician must sometimes do wrong in order to do right." Without migration deals there are no fewer deaths, but with migration deals we do make deals with unpleasant countries. Last night there was another horrible video of drowning migrants, in this case off the Tunisian coast. The skipper knew nothing but to return and thus sealed the fate of people who had jumped overboard. I'm afraid we're gonna see that footage more often. On the one hand, we are trying to save and on the other, we are maintaining a model of human trafficking. We have to make this kind of horrible considerations in our foreign policy. I'm afraid that's the reality we're dealing with. At the end of my second term, in which I will not table any motions, I would like to thank this Minister for his cooperation during this cabinet period. He came in halfway. Of course, we do not know whether this will be his last budget. Others prelude to that, but we can't say that. I have seen this cooperation as extremely constructive and extremely realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u163	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ten Broeke said that we do not know whether this is the last budget of this minister, but at least we are sure that this is the last budget discussion of this minister during this cabinet period, unless this minister is considering doing the same as the President of Turkey, namely to amend the law in such a way that his term of office becomes unlimited. I have the impression that this is not the case with this minister, so I assume that this is his last budget discussion during this cabinet period. This is a good time to thank this minister for his commitment. He shows an tireless commitment to human rights, to people who face violence in terrible circumstances. The fact that he sometimes says he doesn't sleep well indicates his involvement. All those who are in the places where they matter, such as the Foreign Minister, can, in the end, be the only ones to find a solution for these people. I think it's good to say that here. This is without prejudice to the fact that, of course, I have criticized the Minister's actions several times. I must say that I found him extremely clear today in his statements. I've once accused him of speaking with flour in his mouth. I think we're out of it by now. So the Minister was very clear and that is good. At the same time, I think that during this cabinet period a number of opportunities have also been missed to strengthen the footprint of the Netherlands. The mission in Mali, which we so wholeheartedly support and in which this minister was involved in all kinds of qualities, is accompanied by a lack of capacity. This means that we need to do more and to build up more capacities to do these kinds of missions longer, if that is necessary. The Minister has answered my questions about Karama. I have to say that the answers are disappointing to say that the restrictions in the financing of the African Women's Development Fund are so great against the effectiveness of that organisation that I have tabled an amendment on that point for another cover. As regards Turkish-Russian cooperation on missile defence, the advantage of being a member of the Parliamentary Assembly is that you can also ask your question to the Turkish authorities. That's what I did. The answer from the Turkish Secretary of State for Defence was that he could confirm that those talks were ongoing, but that the purchase was not yet complete. I would like to ask the Minister if he can inform the Chamber about the involvement of Qatar's embassy in the Netherlands at the controversial mosque in Denmark. He can't give that information right now, but would he like to do it later by letter? Finally, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, following suspicions of possible abuse and torture, a CPT inspection team visited Turkish detainees during the period after the coup and that Turkey has just received the report from the CPT team;]] [[noting that the European Union monitors the human rights situation in Turkey and that respect for human rights and civil rights is a prerequisite for visa liberalisation;]] [[Notes that the European Commission needs to have the public CPT report available for an update of the Visa Roadmap or for a subsequent progress report and that otherwise that report is so incomplete that it cannot be attached to it;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the involvement of the CPT report in the European Commission's progress report on Turkey, as well as the visa liberalisation roadmap, and to keep the Chamber informed when the CPT report is made public,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Knops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u164	Mr. Chairman. I can see the minutes coming up. That looks good!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u165	I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u166	Oh, I'm sorry. Several colleagues have already said that this is the last budget of this cabinet. Let me just say today, as these days are constantly asking PvdAers who they support, that I support a second term for Minister Koenders. I think it would be wonderful if next year we could just be back in this composition. So this is the last budget of this cabinet. Some of the discussions you've had may have had a few times. That is true, but I have learned a great deal again. Maybe I learned the best from the most experienced MPs. That is Mr Bommel, who is about to wave off after 18 years, and Mr Van der Staaij, whose numerator points out the same thing. Mr Van der Staaij showed me that you can say in two sentences what I needed fifteen minutes and a long quote from Robert Kennedy, namely that a merchant also needs to look around a little bit and that a vicar knows very well what is going on in the world. In this way, the classical debate between realists, idealists and anyone who places themselves somewhere in the middle is, in my opinion, that sort of everyone settles. So I've learned something from it again and hopefully I'll take it with me to next year. Another area of tension in this debate concerns the sense of powerlessness that we all have in relation to a number of conflicts in the world, especially with regard to Syria. The minister literally said he's standing here empty-handed. This also applies, however, to other situations, such as the Middle East Peace Process. We all find something about that and we all want something about it, especially peace, but we're not getting anywhere. I also mention Turkey. We all feel how uncomfortable it is. We want to send a signal, but at the same time we don't want to lock the door completely. The feeling of powerlessness is understandable, but may and will never, as far as I am concerned, lead to the abandonment of hope, to the abandonment of efforts, to backwardness, to withdrawal and so on. It is precisely that institution that I see with this minister. Maybe that'll characterize him as a minister. He continues and continues to search, even in the darker scenario, which is darker and darker every time, in Syria. He has my support for that. He also has this support when it comes to his fight for human rights. I have raised a number of issues in this area in the first period. Among other things, I asked what we should do about it ourselves. After all, if you take others the measure, then you must also be willing to keep your appointments. That is why I shall at least table the next motion, my first. This concerns the optional protocol to the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has still not ratified the optional protocol to the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ESC Convention);]] [[noting that this optional protocol was already drawn up in 2008 and signed by the Netherlands in 2009;]] [[whereas the 2013 government's policy letter "Respect and Justice for Every Man" referred to "short-term ratification of the optional protocol to the ESC Convention";]] [[calls on the Government to submit the optional protocol to the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights to the House of Representatives as soon as possible so that the examination can take place before the end of this term of office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Servaes, Mr Van Bommel, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Voordewind and Mr Grashoff.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u167	The Minister also said that he wanted to report back to the Chamber in December. I hope that will immediately be the ratification proposal. I really ask you to do that early in December so that we have enough time to discuss it in the Chamber, before the elections. In the same area, namely social rights and workers' rights that are being exploited, we discussed the distressing situation of migrant workers in Qatar last week. We were just wrestling about exactly what is going on with the complaint case that has been filed against Qatar and whether we can still join it. This has to do with the fact that the members of the ILO Management Board, the International Labour Organisation, are not only government representatives but also trade union and employers' representatives. It is equally unclear whether it is smarter to do so as a government than to do so as union representatives. I understand that, but I would like to send the message from the Chamber that at least the Labour Party believes that the Netherlands should show where it stands and, together with the trade unions, should step up to keep pressure on this issue. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the situation of migrant workers in Qatar is still poignant due to exploitation, forced labour and unsafe working conditions, both in the construction of stadiums for the World Cup 2022 and in general;]] [[Noting that a complaint was initiated at the International Labour Organization (ILO) in March 2016 for failing to comply with the Forced Labour Convention (No. 29) and the Labour Inspection Convention (No. 81);]] [[Whereas this complaint was brought by trade unions from 12 countries, including Sweden, Belgium, Denmark, the United Kingdom, Canada and France, but the Netherlands are absent;]] [[Calls on the Government to consult with the Dutch trade unions and discuss how the Netherlands can still join the complaint case against Qatar;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to support, where appropriate, the criminal case brought by FNV together with a Bangladeshi worker against the FIFA World Football Association,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Servaes and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u168	The PvdA Group has tabled a third proposal by means of an amendment. The amendment proposes that the Human Rights Fund should, I believe, not formally say 'fund'; it is the article in the budget entitled 'Reinforced international legal order and respect for human rights' should be increased by EUR 2 million. I thought I heard that the Minister was sympathetic to that. I thank him in advance for that. After yesterday's debate about six hours, I had another appointment in my agenda. Like that sometimes, nothing human is strange to me. I thought, "God, do I have to have another hour of conversation?" But that soon changed when I had my interlocutors in front of me. It was three Jezidis from Iraq. There were two very young people who had left Iraq in time and managed to escape the atrocities there. However, they were in a great deal of pain and sorrow over what had happened to their families there. But the third person, a young woman, couldn't have done this. She was captured and traded in Iraq two years ago. She has experienced the most terrible things and fortunately managed to flee to Kurdish territory this spring with the help of others. She was clearly traumatized by everything that had happened to her. I talked to them about their experiences. Often it is enough to listen to that, but in their story I also heard very much the need for recognition for their suffering. This brings me to an issue that we often discuss in this Parliament. How, on the one hand, can you acknowledge the suffering caused by mass murders that take place, often with the intention of exterminating entire peoples, religions or civilizations, while at the same time maintaining the legally understandable principle that matters such as genocide or crimes against humanity are determined only by a judge? I regret that, as a Chamber, we do not manage to get away from that real dilemma, and therefore remain a little stuck in a well-naïve issue. I am very pleased that we have discussed this with a number of political groups and that Mr Voordewind will be tabling a motion on behalf of all the participants in today's debate to at least obtain external advice on how to proceed with that tension between legal recognition and political appointment of people's suffering. Is there some sort of golden solution coming out of that? Perhaps not, but I think we have a duty to the Jezidis I spoke to yesterday and to all the others who are the victims of this kind of barbaric atrocities in our time, to do our best to show this as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u169	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. I have little speaking time, so I have to be brief, I'm sorry. To his written answer to my question to move the Dutch embassy to Jerusalem, I would like to go into some more detail. The Minister says: I do not, because of Security Council Resolution 478, which found that Israel's annexation of the occupied eastern part of Jerusalem is contrary to international law. That was the reason to remove the embassy from Jerusalem. I still don't understand. If you agree with the judgment in that resolution, I still see no reason to remove the embassy from it, unless it was in eastern Jerusalem. Then you could have moved him to western Jerusalem. Anyway, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and to move the Dutch embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Roon and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u170	I am, of course, counting on the vote of the VVD for this motion, because after 36 years we can expect some realpolitics on this point. I'll also file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Palestinian Authority is a corrupt, authoritarian and glorifying organisation;]] [[noting that Israeli victims continue to fall as a result of Palestinian violence;]] [[noting that the Palestinian State already exists under the name Jordan;]] [[calls on the Government to break ties with the Palestinian Authority and not to spend any more of its taxpayers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u171	I just forgot to mention in the motion on moving the embassy to Jerusalem that Mr Wilders co-signed it. But you won't be surprised. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RNW Media (hereinafter referred to as Radio World Broadcasting) will receive a new subsidy from the Human Rights Fund for 2017-2020, justifying "the promotion of the free word';]] [[whereas Radio World Broadcasting does virtually nothing about the promotion of free speech;]] [[Whereas public funding from such a left-wing, Islamist propaganda channel is no longer present;]] [[calls on the government, Radio World Broadcasting, not to grant a grant from the Human Rights Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u172	Mr. Chairman. Today and yesterday it was much about the need for idealism and realism in foreign policy, as this minister himself said. I think it is very important that we always realise that our values are also our interests and vice versa. They go hand in hand. Without realism and without idealism, there is often only cynicism. Many colleagues have mentioned enormous challenges on the world stage. In the short time available to me for this second term, I would like to highlight a number of them. Two points are very concrete, namely about Dutch people abroad and our ports. Another point is Russia. Russia poses a somewhat greater threat. The Minister says there's an investigation going on with the CIA. I get that. There is an investigation into Russia's influence on the elections. Should there be results of this, should they be shared with the Netherlands, could they be shared confidentially with the Chamber? The minister said that the Russian intelligence services are structurally present in the Netherlands. He also said that there is a worldwide Russian campaign going on to influence policy and imagery towards Russia. That calls for measures as far as I am concerned. The Minister himself suggested a European CIA and FBI. What does he mean by that in concrete terms? Does that have anything to do with this? Or did that have a different basis? I would also like to be specific and prevent Russian influence, and certainly financial support, from having a negative effect in the Netherlands. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Russia is trying to weaken and to break up the European Union through various channels;]] [[Whereas various intelligence services at home and abroad are concerned about Russia's increasing influence, intimidation and aggression;]] [[whereas Russia financially supports European political parties and movements that turn against the European Union;]] [[calls on the Government, Russian funding of Dutch political parties and associated organisations to curb and inform the Chamber of the measures taken,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u173	I come to Dutch people abroad. I have an amendment on this subject with some other groups. However, I would like to say a few words about the fact that the Minister would rather not answer some of my questions. I find that a bit remarkable, especially when it comes to the following questions. Is it true that Van Laarhoven is only visited once a year in Thailand? Is it true that monitoring detention is difficult? In my view, such questions can simply be answered, as can the question of whether there has been a reply to the Prime Minister's letter. I see the Minister is in favour of a port ambassador. I would like to table the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the port of Rotterdam has a very high economic value for the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas a special port ambassador can open doors in the world;]] [[Whereas a port ambassador may improve competitiveness;]] [[noting that both the municipality of Rotterdam and the port company of Rotterdam are in favour of such an initiative;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a special port ambassador,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u174	I think this is a nice idea in itself, but since this point had not come up so much in the speech I do have a question. We already have a port ambassador, namely the alderman of Port Affairs in Rotterdam. That is one of Mr Sjoerdsma's parties, by the way. I'm sure he'll say he's doing fine. Does he need this motion? If the answer is yes, can Mr Sjoerdsma help me by saying that this is not the beginning of an endless amount and proliferation of ambassadors on specific subjects?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u175	I understand Mr Ten Broeke's question very well. I have two answers to this. I would point out that both the alderman in Rotterdam who has this in his portfolio and the Port Authority are positive about this. When opening up growth markets in Asian and African countries in particular, it is sometimes found that these port companies are ultimately in the hands of the government. To open those doors and get the opportunity to come to the table, a diplomatic passport and the diplomatic weight of such an ambassador help. To defend that global top position of Rotterdam, for example, and the jobs associated with it, you also need to talk about regularly raising unfair competition. This applies in Europe to state aid and unclear regulation. Once again, it helps if someone on behalf of the government knocks on the door with the announcement that we do not want this. It is therefore welcomed and I think it is a necessity, but I certainly do not want to see this as the start of a series of partial initiatives. I agree with Mr Ten Broeke. The Rotterdam port, but also the Amsterdam port, is far too important for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u176	I take it that ambassador will not only operate for the port of Rotterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u177	Absolutely not, for all Dutch ports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u178	That reassures me and also that there will be no proliferation. I would like to point out to Mr Sjoerdsma that he will do even greater pleasure to the port ambassador, and indeed also to his own port alderman, by later being positive about the initiative law for the protection of the merchant navy. That's what the port of Rotterdam is really waiting for, isn't it, Mr Knops?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u179	I will take this point to heart. I believe, however, that these are two very different issues. I would like to inform Mr Ten Broeke that if there is anything that our Dutch ports, and not just the port of Rotterdam, are waiting for, it is such a figurehead. I look forward to his support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u180	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering our questions, including the written answers. I have already congratulated him on his commitment in the first term. We shall see what the coming months will bring. I would like to make a brief comment on a number of issues. I'll start with Turkey. I asked a question about the expansion drive which the Minister spoke about in his speech; Turkey's neo-Ottoman turn to look outside the borders. Perhaps the Minister could respond to this, also in the light of the summit of Heads of Government in December? That is where the report on Turkey will undoubtedly be discussed and the question of human rights. Then there will undoubtedly also be discussion of the possible suspension of negotiations on Turkey's accession. What is the government's commitment? I'll continue with the cuts. This is not about the defence budget, but we talked about it for a while. I read in the written answers that the trend of increased investment in defence needs to be continued. I asked another question about this and the Minister replied that, as far as he is concerned, this does not have to be included in the Navy's note. I didn't quite understand the two statements. Can the Minister say anything about this? We had an exchange of views on Israel. I do not yet fully understand what activities will and will not be financed within the framework of the BDS organisations against Israel. Is the Minister now saying that all the activities of organisations, directly or indirectly, will not be funded, but that if an organisation has an opinion, it is of course entitled to freedom of expression? If that's the Minister's line, I can follow it. I would like to have a clarification on that. The Minister has already said a few things about religious freedom and the amendment on reconciliation projects, but perhaps he will discuss this further later? Finally, I come to the motion referred to by Mr Servaes, about the debate we often have here on whether or not there is genocide in countries such as Iraq, the Kurds, Jezidis, Christians and other minorities. What can politics do with it? I would like to ask for international advice on this through the Foreign Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the American House of Representatives committed the atrocities committed by ISIS against the Jezidis, Kurds, Christians and other ethnic and religious minorities, as well as against Muslims who disagree with ISIS' extremist interpretation of Islam, have qualified as crimes against humanity and genocide;]] [[Whereas the judgment or legal nature of genocide is always before the courts, but such a judgment often takes years, while the (political) recognition of the crime committed is of great importance, including for the treatment of suffering among the groups affected;]] [[calls on the Government to seek advice from the External People's Law Adviser (EFTA) and the Commission to provide advice on international law issues (CAVV) and to prepare a joint report with a view to clarifying the desirability, possibilities and significance of the use of the term "genocide" by politicians, both in general and in relation to the aforementioned atrocities in the Middle East,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Servaes, Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Knops, Mr Van Bommel, Mr Grashoff, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Monasch and Mr Bontes.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u181	I have two questions about this motion. It is noted that a number of international organisations qualify the atrocities of ISIS as crimes against humanity and genocide. Now I see in the operative part of the motion that you simply want to investigate the use of the term 'genocide'. Why don't you also want an investigation into the use of the term "crimes against humanity"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u182	We're gonna ask for some advice. That's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. The aforementioned bodies are explicitly talking about genocide. That is a further form of genocide than crimes against humanity. That is why it focuses on genocide. However, it may be both. I leave it to the research organisations to take both terms, but we focus on genocide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u183	My second question concerns the classification of events as genocide. I remember that Mr Voordewind has been at the door in the past with conceptual moves, in which he himself qualified those things as genocide. Then I thought, "That's the right way." However, these motions have never been tabled. Mr Voordewind now comes with the request for external rapporteurs to report on the desirability, possibilities and significance of the use of the term "genocide" by politicians. I do not understand that very well, since he wanted to qualify these matters as genocide before. Why did he question his own qualification? Can't he stand on his own feet like the PVV at this point and use the terms he wants to use?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u184	There's no doubt about that. The above mentioned bodies have already recognised this. We have already said this, but sometimes we do not get very far with the opinion of a Mr Voordewind or the Christian Union. That's why I sought support in the Chamber. I also think it is important to use these organisations as building blocks for the debate in The Hague, in Parliament. You are not yet under the motion, but may I assume that the PVV will support the motion? You're the only one in the Chamber who's not under that motion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u185	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u186	Mr. Chairman. I have a very short speaking time, so I'm skipping all sorts of pleasantries, which, by the way, are there. The Minister responded to energy policy. He referred to the letter of 26 August. That letter of August 26th, from three rulers, of course, I know well. It is a very long letter and it can be summarised in one sentence, which says: "The government confines itself to interventions aimed at ensuring the functioning of the market and keeping the gas infrastructure in order." That is all there is in fact to policy initiative. So that is not a geopolitical approach to our energy issue. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is one of the largest traders in Russian oil and oil products and the government promotes this position;]] [[noting that the gas roundabout strategy focuses inter alia on the procurement and transit of Russian gas;]] [[Whereas the current European dependence on Russian gas is undesirable and should certainly not be increased, but reduced within a realistic timeframe;]] [[calls on the Government to initiate a geostrategic review of the Dutch energy policy and to inform the Court of Justice of this by February 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u187	On the same theme another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Member States of the European Union should be less dependent on fossil energy suppliers;]] [[calls on the Government to work to ensure that Member States of the European Union jointly negotiate gas supplies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the development and deployment of autonomous weapons without meaningful human control is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself, within the Fifth Review Conference of the Convention on Conventional Weapons (CCW) in Geneva, to a mandate for negotiations on restrictions on the production and deployment of autonomous weapons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-34]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u188	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. There have been many words of appreciation today. I would certainly like to express it in the direction of this Minister. If you're an impatient world improver at the State Department, you're gonna get frustrated fast. But if you are determined, long-term and can also be happy with small steps to work for more justice, peace and security, you are doing well. I recognize a lot of that in the work of this minister. Perhaps a tile wisdom on Foreign Affairs can be the word of the prophet Zechariah: do not despise the day of the little things. It's a lot of little things. The big breakthroughs we look forward to are also very often there, are very long waiting or are not coming. It's still worth fighting for those little things. On a subject on which I was not entirely satisfied with the answer given by the Minister, I would like to come back and table a motion. This concerns the BDS activities (Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions). On this point, the Minister said in the implementation of the previous motion that direct subsidies do not indeed take place, that they are strictly on the subject and that if anything goes wrong, he can be approached. However, in the case of indirect subsidies, in the case of aid to organisations that express their own support or engage in activities which are not subsidised by money but which are capable of undermining foreign policy, he cannot do anything about it. I find that unsatisfactory. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in its reply to questions on the implementation of the Van der Staaij and Others motion for a resolution, (23432, No. 438) indicates that BDS organisations do not directly finance but do not object to their indirect financing;]] [[noting that, according to the answer, whether or not activities of civil society organisations abroad are in line with the objectives of the Dutch foreign policy is not part of the consideration of their co-financing;]] [[Whereas this may lead to a foreign policy which breaks down with the left hand what is being built up with the right hand;]] [[calls on the Government to include, in addition to the effectiveness of organisations, the extent to which organisations promote or undermine the objectives of foreign policy, in the assessments of public funding, and to report to the Court on their impact on financing choices,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u189	The formulation is long and complex. Does this motion mean that Mr Van der Staaij really wants organisations that take the view that they support BDS no longer to be eligible for funding? Is that what is actually being asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u190	Here's what's asked. It concerns organisations that are active, have an objective and also work on it, for example by saying that they want to promote BDS activities. In fact, I have already mentioned in the previous motion the example of the Human Rights and International Humanitarian Law Secretary, which supports the activities of organisations that are sometimes associated with terrorist organisations. Yeah, then you're giving and doing good things with one hand while it's being broken down with the other. This is important, whatever other activities are carried out by these organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u191	I know the SGP as an extraordinary constitutional party. Does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me that a border is actually being sought here or is being crossed? Here it is actually said that you make the state's financing of NGOs dependent on the majority view that is there from the government's action. Doesn't that get you on the soap pad? Don't you make sure that the core value of freedom of expression along the detour of funding is actually turned a bit upside-down?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u192	Freedom of speech is not at stake. It's proud to be standing up. This is about not having subsidised freedom of expression for matters that cross or undermine foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u193	It is indeed important that we get very sharp what is being asked here. There has, of course, been a motion before. I think it is all the more important because it is the SGP that is proposing this. The SGP is a party that has a number of objectives and aims that are not in line with Dutch policy. I am referring to the position of women or the position of the SGP on the death penalty. You could even say that this position is contrary to the Dutch Constitution. Nevertheless, after a few things in Europe, your party receives a subsidy for its work as a political party. I'm sure you'll be very pleased with that. Before we go into specificity, I ask the following question. You will allow yourself to be subsidised, despite the fact that your objectives in some parts are contrary to that for which Dutch politics and even the Dutch Constitution stand. Why do you not allow others to be subsidised for activities while at the same time maintaining their freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u194	Now Mr Servaes is running a hell of a mess. He speaks to me about subsidising political parties. Political parties may have proposals for amendments to the Constitution. Many political parties have such proposals, so there is nothing wrong with that. They just can't find support for it. The position of women has been discussed, after which the statutes have been amended so that there is no longer any formal obstacle. However, this is something else. We are not talking here about the subsidy for political parties, a subsidy that all parties receive and for which we do not have a substantive review. This concerns concrete activities in the field of foreign policy. You must indeed say: would you like to support the introduction of the death penalty abroad? I assume Mr Servaes would not want that. I wouldn't want to, either, because supporting such activities is contrary to foreign policy. In that sense, this reciprocity is entirely on the agenda. I only ask you to check and look at it in a broader context when subsidies are being granted to an organisation that also engages in activities that actually undermine the impact of what you want to achieve in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u195	So this is exactly where things go wrong. It is therefore a question of reviewing concrete activities. That's exactly what this is about. For many years, the Ministry has assessed grant applications on whether or not concrete activities fit the policy objectives of the Ministry. That is what we must continue to do. If that specific activity for which a grant application is submitted is a demonstration for BDS, I would be the first to oppose such a grant award, because that is not consistent with it. But that's not what we're talking about. The point is that in all its expressions, such an organisation is allowed to do and leave out what it wants outside the subsidised activity. 'Terrorist organization' is a separate category, on which we agree. I am trying to get hold of Mr Van der Staaij's motion. We have discussed an earlier motion and been put to the vote. The cabinet responded in this direction: we do not subsidise BDS activities, but respect freedom of expression. Does Mr Van der Staaij now go beyond that motion? Does he really want to entice organisations to stop doing what they want, other than what they are subsidised for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u196	The motion does not go beyond the motion that was tabled earlier. I would almost say that she is a little more friendly. We are now talking about the consideration of what is going on. The motion is almost even more cautious and precise. It's not like, if there's anything that's not right, you have to stop the whole funding. It is about looking at the total of activities. It would be very strange and strange to say that we are subsidising a beautiful project of organization X, which at the same time throws huge amounts of oil on the fire in, for example, the Middle East conflict. Then that's a crossroads of the policy you want, isn't it? You're too easy to get rid of by saying: we're just looking at a project in isolation and not at what the organization does?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u197	Just a political fact. Mr Van der Staaij said that all political parties receive subsidies. That doesn't apply to the PVV. We are opposed to subsidising political parties with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u198	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u199	I was talking about political parties: organisations with members and a democratic structure. That doesn't include the PVV. I chose my words with care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u200	The PVV is registered as a political party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u201	It is indeed a group that can submit a list, but I had something else in mind with a political party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u202	Mr. Chairman. I know I have little time, but otherwise it will be to compensate for my speaking time in the budget for security and justice next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u203	It doesn't work that way, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u204	I'll start right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands, as host country of the International Criminal Court, has a special responsibility for organisations committed to supporting the work of this Court;]] [[noting that human rights defenders working with the Criminal Court on Dutch soil are seriously threatened;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to provide adequate protection and support to human rights defenders in the Netherlands working with the Criminal Court who are threatened and/or otherwise opposed;]] [[invites the Government also to inform the Chamber, if necessary confidentially, as soon as it knows who is behind the threats,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that approximately 800,000 Rohingyas in Myanmar are not recognised as citizens by the Government of Myanmar;]] [[calls on the Government, through the European Union and the United Nations, to exert political pressure on Myanmar to improve the position of the Rohingyas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch government has still not formally apologized for our colonial past and history of slavery;]] [[calls on the government to apologize formally and openly for our colonial past and the history of slavery,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-37]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-38]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u205	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I'm filing two motions. The first is about Turkey. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that tens of thousands of people have been arrested in Turkey in recent months, critical media channels have been closed and Kurdish parliamentarians arrested;]] [[whereas the rule of law in Turkey has been effectively abolished;]] [[Whereas the country is also considering the re-introducing of the death penalty;]] [[Whereas Austria has indicated, inter alia, that accession negotiations with Turkey should be suspended;]] [[whereas the European Union should no longer be blackmailed by Turkey;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself at European level to finalising the EU accession negotiations with Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u206	For the sake of clarity, this motion goes one step further than Mr Van Bommel wants. He is talking about suspending and we want to stop the negotiations permanently. Then it is clear to Turkey, but also to us here in the West. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a report by the NGO Monitor organisation shows that several European countries, including the Netherlands, indirectly subsidise the Terrorist Organisation Volksfront for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP);]] [[noting that this subsidy is carried out through a network of related controversial organisations such as Addameer and Al-Haq;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to this subsidy as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-V-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u207	Let me give you a brief explanation. A similar motion was adopted once, but recently, three days ago, a report was issued which shows that this is still taking place. It has to stop once and therefore this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-5.u208	We have come to the end of the second term of office. After the suspension we first have the arrangement of work and then we continue with the second term on the part of the government.
