ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the initiator, Mrs Lodders, and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing pensions today. I have to go into a few things, even briefly, before I get to the bill. Over the past weekend, many reports have been published about our retirement. We have received the SER report, the long-awaited response to the request for advice on how to proceed with the second pillar retirement provision. I do not wish to comment on this opinion. Political parties will undoubtedly discuss it in the electoral programmes that are under way. The pension sector has given an initial response. He concluded that, in short, we should be more on the individual tour, but that much remains to be figured out. The transition remains a problem. We knew that a year ago. Switching to an individual system costs a lot of money. How much will that be, and who will go, will and can pay if we want to respect everyone's accumulated rights? What is important in any case for the CDA group is how we anchor solidarity and collectivity. Moreover, there is enough time for further research to be carried out on the conclusion of the ESC because it is only this autumn that a reaction from the cabinet can be expected on the future system. Its introduction has been postponed and a new system will have to take shape in the new cabinet period. I'm not saying that without cynicism. However, this cabinet has caused the resurrection of the introduction of the new financial review framework with which it wanted to buy long-term security at that time, but does not yet answer the question as to when the effects of that nftk with the chosen interest-rate term structure will lead to unrest and possible reductions. These will be bigger discounts than the Secretary of State predicts. At a time when pensioners, as well as participants in funds, are not indexed for many years and the discount story is also hanging over their heads, there is great unrest in society. That is why, more than ever, clear and clear lines are being asked for the future of the government. Now that this is on the contrary, the people want that future to be better shaped. Let me be clear. The members of the CDA Group see that the second pillar pension is under pressure, because we have been living longer, but also because the employment relationships in the working lives of men and women are now different, more flexible even than 30 years ago. The growing growth of independence, forced or casual, whatever you may think of it, means that an increasingly large group of people in the labour market is no longer able to build up a pension alongside the AOW as a basic provision, which should provide adequate income provision after retirement age. It is so easy to talk about only €400 or €500 per month as an average pension, but it is a difference to live on an AOW of €1,000 or an AOW with a pension of €1,500. In addition to longer life, flexibility in the labour market and independence, there is another phenomenon: the muffled cost-covering premium. This contribution reduces pension payments, but, to my horror, it is becoming increasingly remote from what is needed for an adequate reservation for the future pension. The government as a large employer is also guilty of this: now money in hand instead of deferred pay for later. We have the most beautiful system in Europe. I hear Dutch rulers and diplomats proclaiming all over Europe. I also agree with it, but I cannot make it clear to pensioners today that the people who now benefit from their pensions are unable to continue to provide for this system while the pension funds are full. This can even be cut short if I look at the Minister's predictive letter last Friday. What strikes me even more and what I really resent is that the Secretary of State writes that the UFR would have an effect from the nftk, but that the effects for 2015 have not yet been taken into account. There are those effects! They are also in the monthly reports of the funds. What troubles me is you don't have to have a predictive gift for that! It is to be seen now that the policy coverage rate invented in the nftk in the coming months, if interest rates do not rise, but even if it goes up, will fall even further down and so more people will have to be shortened than in its prediction. I wonder how much interest the government still has in pension provision. In my first plenary debate in this House, we also discussed the VAT scheme for the funds that have defined benefit (db). A motion was then adopted to align db and dc (defined contribution) in the sense that non-taxation should also apply to DB schemes, since the preference of the seat is meaningless. The Advocate General has now spoken and has taken that view of ours. However, it is deafeningly silent on the part of the government. What's behind this? I cannot believe that this Secretary of State and also the Minister and Secretary of State for Finance wish to permanently penalise the collective. It costs the collective 100 million a year. I'm asking the Secretary of State to go into that as well. Then today's topic, the improved premium scheme. I begin by warmly thanking and congratulating Mrs Lodders. These compliments are in particular for the original initiative, which was clear and simple. The way in which she answered the questions, especially in the first written round, was really excellent. I commend you for that. The answer in the second period was rather short. The petitioner crawled very close to the answers of the Secretary of State. As far as the government's written response is concerned, I am less satisfied. At least that reaction raises more questions than answers. Let me give you an example. In the first written period, I ask for examples. I get the answer that examples could lead to misunderstandings and misinterpretations. However, in the second round, it is reported that so many uncertainties are associated with an answer to the question of sample calculations that the government intends to ask an external party to elaborate the examples. And it was so simple what we asked. If we want to make a good decision, we just want to know what it means for the capital of a participant who has invested up to 50 years in a uniform currency, when suddenly a lifecycle has to be switched. This bill of law aims to solve the problem of people who are now retired, because of the low interest rates currently facing the purchase of a lifelong fixed pension, which is now lower than ever expected. People who save pension through a contribution agreement or a capital agreement must convert the accumulated capital into a periodic, life-long benefit at the retirement age. This will then be done at the rate of interest at that time. In the period in which we live now, we have low interest rates. This results in a periodic benefit which is lower than expected. A 1% lower rate of interest Mrs Lodders writes that even a benefit that is 10% lower can also result in a benefit that is 10% lower. In Mrs Lodder's solution, prospective pensioners are no longer dependent on one moment of purchase, but at the benefit stage they may be able to benefit from potential additional returns that the investment can offer. I see that problem. The solution that Mrs Lodder had chosen was simple. Its proposal will certainly have raised some questions for us as well. I therefore agree with my CDA colleague, Mr Omtzigt, who has made sensible comments on this, as always. The proposal would not have upset as much as it does now. Mrs Lodder's draft, crossed with the later draft of the government's law, raises very serious doubts about the rigidity that is in it. I have rarely seen a draft law that is so complicated and which, I believe, involves 17 pages of lower regulation. Moreover, the resulting General Measure of Management will still be the subject of debate in the Lower House. Add to this the research carried out by Netspar at the request of the House of Representatives to further analyse the choice between projection- and risk-free interest rates, which is also the subject of debate there. When I look at these two elements, I ask whether what is now on the table is not so incomplete, even because of the discussion on the other side, that we should not decide on this now. What is risk-free interest? The problems the CDA Group sees are as follows. The scope of the law now applies only to premium schemes where the employer accounts for at least 10% of the premium. Pension funds are therefore not eligible because they are not allowed to offer variable pension benefits. However, in addition to the benefit scheme, several pension funds also have a voluntary contribution scheme. There is a need for legislative change to provide for this. The industry is asking for that problem to be repaired. The Secretary of State intends, on a part, to resolve the obstacle to the implementation of variable net pensions by pension funds through the decision. However, as far as the necessary legislation is concerned, it is far from rejecting Article 120 of the Treaty. Does the Secretary of State wish to respond to the proposition of the Pension Federation, which tells us that under Article 120 rules require that the purchase of pension should now take place against the required equity capital, which is certainly now much higher than the current coverage rate of the funds? In short, a net pension participant now has to buy in too expensive, as this is based on the required equity capital. I have already talked about the complexity of this law. How do I communicate with the participant about his or her choices? I don't know what happened to Mrs. Lodder when she described the taste of communication in her answer. I don't understand. And I may assume that a prospective pensioner or participant will in all likelihood not understand it either. It's hard, too. How do I convince a participant to retire? You choose a part for a fixed pension, so lower pension and you have to leave a part to invest riskyly. And then hope you make up for it in the longer term. If I look at the average pension in this country, namely €500 per month, they get €300 fixed, so on top of the AOW and €200 they leave. At this small income! I think it does not work and that it may only be a solution for the very well-paid. I think, by the way, if you wanted to find a solution for others, you should have and could have looked at the retirement cut. Maybe it could have been easily modified. Furthermore, the CDA Group strongly opposes the introduction of lifecycles. We now know the principle of prudent person in pension provision. As a devil comes out of a box now the implementation of that principle with the mandatory offer of a lifecycle. That hasn't been seen anywhere before. DNB has also always described this interpretation of prudent person as an open standard. The government says it's different, but it's not. We think these lifecycles should go. Because a lifecycle approach is based on the individual. For each individual the personal circumstances must then be designed and two lifecycles must be offered for fixed and variable. This must be done again for pension schemes that invest by default, where a lifecycle is mandatory. That can't be true, can it? How much is all this for the funds and for the participants? Because everything will still be accounted for by the funds. I have the feeling that this law, through the will of the government, has lost sight of the cost of all the new regulations. Mr Omtzigt's questions on cost transparency have therefore not been answered. What does the lifecycle mean when people show they're gonna turn out bad after all? Then who's responsible? Is the concept of duty of care going to affect us in five years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u3	I am listening to Mrs Oomen with a great deal of interest. One thing she just said surprises me. She's talking about the undesirableness of the lifecycle principle, which would focus on the individual person. How does it look at the prudent person principle, for example in the setting of a premium agreement? Does this not include at least the same obligation to take into account the individual circumstances of the prospective pensioner?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u4	The group of participants is already being taken into account. They're looking at the interests of that group. In the new financial review framework, they were allowed to change that prudent person once. For each pension fund, it is now examined what the default, i.e. the standard investment or the standard investment, means for the members of the fund. I want to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u5	Depending on the circumstances of the contract, the pure application of the prudent person principle will often imply that the individual circumstances of the pensioner must be reflected in the investment policy of the person who is going to secure his pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u6	No, at the moment, that prudent person principle is an open standard. Check the website of DNB, the practice of pension funds. It says it's an open standard. Now we're going to prescribe that every individual adjusts his pension to his lifecycle, including in that contribution agreement. That presupposes that you know of every individual how that intends to organise his life. This means that experts are needed to gather the information and to provide information on the consequences of a choice for variable or fixed. That will simply lead to very high costs. We are certainly not in favour of this at the moment. We believe that it is the responsibility of the funds to coordinate this well. They do that with good governance and so on. They are also always controlled by the Dutch Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u7	I share the concern, but not entirely the analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u8	At least that's something!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u9	I suggest that you continue your speech. You are already over your speaking time, so I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u10	I still have a bit of written text, so that takes about two minutes. I have one more question, by the way. How much is this lifecycle for the funds? No, I already said that. I have already mentioned wishful thinking. I said something about this at the beginning. Switching from a uniform investment policy to a lifecycle can also be detrimental for the participants in the profits. I'll say that again. That is why we lack the model calculations so much. I now turn to the five-year distribution period, although I fear that I will now have another interruption. We have asked questions about this because, over a period of ten years, shocks can be spread better. Research from ORTEC proves that again. The answers we have received have not satisfied us. Why is there a need for a reduction in risk sharing between generations? Why this fear on the part of the government for those intergenerational effects? Isn't this provision even tighter? Do we not have much more to do in the wrong direction if, as soon as we discuss the new pension contract, we do need this risk-sharing? If I see correctly, this wish can only be achieved by amending this law. Are the petitioner and the government prepared to do so? I'm rounding up. The proposal for a law before us is not only incomplete because of the large quantities of decisions that still have to be taken. The scope is too limited, implementation of elements such as risk sharing and the mandatory provision of lifecycles are innovations that anticipate the future of a pension provision that will take shape next year. The proposal with mandatory advice on lifecycles will entail high costs, which will be passed on to the participants. The target group that is going to make use of the new opportunities comes from the top floor, because people with an average pension income of €500 do not opt for €300 and the chance that they will get another income from the €200 in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u11	At the beginning of her speech, Mrs Oomen devoted so much time to the general problem of pension funds that speaking time was now very tight. I will help her by asking a question relating to that first analysis, in which she indicates that the second pillar pensions are under pressure. It will agree with me that this applies not only to benefits agreements but also to those of premium agreements. Does the pot not blame the kettle too much now that Mrs Oomen is actually saying to the cabinet and also to the initiator today that they are doing too little and that she is so critical on four points? I suggest that we discuss this with each other. Anyway, I almost seem to hear that she is going to vote against this bill. In doing so, it denies all those people who are in a contribution agreement to generate value with their saved pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u12	What I am going to say again will also appeal to Mr Postma. Who are we making this very complicated bill for, so far ahead of the future? Is it for that average pensioner who gets €500 per month that is the average pension income of income? Is the pensioner able to say: I am taking €300 now and I am leaving the €200 because I may still be able to get a return in the future? I do not think Mr Postma is in favour of this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u13	Postma, if you don't mind. Still a little while. The participants, including those with premium agreements, would like to get their money's worth. Mrs Oomen already points out that this is under serious pressure, including in the context of the premium agreements. The main objective of this initiative proposal and of the government's input in this regard is that those participants can also generate more value with a pension thanks to the possibility of investing. That's the essence. I understand that Mrs. Oomen finds certain things too complicated. Some things about net pensions still have to be settled in a decision to be made, certainly. However, would Mrs Oomen not want to go along with the objective, including those of the initiators, of simply getting it better for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u14	I didn't make myself clear. I accept that anyone who has a net or contribution agreement and has to convert it into a lower pension with the current low interest rate has a problem. However, Mr Postema knows that the average pension is €500. Then I ask the person with the net or contribution agreement to waive the fixed pension and to say: I am now capturing the €300 and these €200 are passed on, because I may get something of that in the future, possibly; I will have it rendered. Does Mr Postema see the average pension participant able to do so? In the comments we get from the field, we are asking for this legislation to be amended. Is it not really better to come back with the original initiative, or to put this proposal in the refrigerator, given the problems I have just outlined?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. I don't usually attach much to the exact designation of my name. Mrs Oomen even called me Andries for a while. I've had peace with that, too. At the end of my speech, however, I will return to my background and to my indirect surname. Postma is more Gronings than Fries and Postma is just the other way around. That is why I wanted to have that clear today. One of the great advantages of a funded pension system is that the contributions paid in build up a wealth that is multiple. Depending on the period of measurement we use, a euro pension premium deposited can thus increase three to five times. A significant part of this added value is obtained from the investment income of the saved assets after the retirement date, i.e. with return in the distribution phase. The legislative proposal we are discussing today amends the legal framework for premium agreements in order to allow the participant's pension capital to be invested riskily after the retirement date. This is expected to lead to higher but more fluctuating pensions. Due to the obligation to base the projection rate on the (risk-free) interest term structure for pension funds, the return on investment is expected to yield an average annual windfall in the distribution phase. These windfalls lead to a trend-increasing pension. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, this bill is the main point of profit: it also allows members of premium schemes to benefit from investment income after their own retirement. In addition, the legislative proposal makes it possible for the pension provider to adjust the benefit pattern in such a way that a higher pension is already paid at the start of the benefit phase, followed by a regular fixed decline over the years. The initiator expects that, in combination with the windfalls resulting from the investment income generated, a constant nominal pension will then be created. However, there is also a possibility that this expectation will not be fulfilled and that the pensioner will actually be faced with a pension falling over the years. The Labour Party is less enthusiastic about taking such risks. After all, it is important to avoid spending most of the saved pension in the first few years and then leaving virtually nothing left. Can the initiator indicate how the legislative proposal provides for an appropriate limit on this risk? Such options for variation and flexibility in the pension therefore have a downside as far as we are concerned. We now know from the behavioral economy that all too often people act only limited or not rationally at all. Numerous "behavioral finance" studies have also shown this for pension issues. Add to that that a whole lot of people are financially illiterate and we can conclude that we are dealing here with financial products that, if the legislator does not put clear restrictions on them, create a high degree of vulnerability. We don't see much of that concern in the bill. The initiativer seems to use the paradigm of the homo economics as if the destructive effect of an over-liberalized financial sector has not manifested itself at all in recent years. The explanatory memorandum to the bill refers to "financial products" which are so complex that they are "under the hood" but which fortunately does not affect the rider. Such a quote could also have been included in the De Wit Committee's report, as an example of how things could go wrong, of how things should not be done. Pension is much more than a financial product that we can shop and slide unlimited. It is an old age provision, in the vast majority of cases just that few hundred euros a month more to have a good life even after retirement. It is up to the legislator to ensure this great good. In view of this approach, my group can well live with the fact that on various issues of choice there is still a safe side. The nominal benefit as default option is a good example of this, not least because of the strong effect of defaults. The release of the previously suggested idea of pension units is also part of this. They are far too complicated and fortunately not necessary. It would be nice if the last, possibly forgotten, scraps of this notion of these pension units would still be wiped out of the law. Can the initiator agree and can the Secretary of State undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u16	I would like to understand what Mr Postema is trying to do in his concerns about the uncertainty of pensioners who end up in this system. The return appeals to him, but the risk worries him. In it is the primal law hidden "no guts, no glory." If, on the one hand, he likes this return and, on the other hand, he considers the risks undesirable, I wonder if he sees an alternative to that combination. If so, what does that look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u17	I don't see any alternative to that combination. It is also sometimes said that I agree that the most important asset on a pension balance sheet is to be able to take on a risk. Without risk, there's no return. Above all, we must make use of it. This must be done by expert people who do not engage in wild adventures, but that must also be clearly explained to the participants so that the choices that exist are easy to understand and follow. That's my plea. Mr. Chairman. There's got to be wiped anyway. We are pleased that, in response to our questions on this subject, the initiator acknowledges that the option of a regular fixed increase in benefits was accidentally removed from the legislative proposal. When will this option be added again, we ask her and the Secretary of State. Another point for which my group has drawn attention is the fact that, because of the legal requirements laid down under Article 120 of the Pension Act, Mrs Oomen has already spoken about the possibility of a variable pension for only a limited part of the contribution schemes available. Specifically, Article 41 of the Decree implementing Pension Law and Compulsory Occupational Pension Scheme requires compulsory procurement in the basic pension scheme. In reply to our questions on this subject, the initiator indicated that there is a draft decision in preparation aimed at removing the current obstacles to the implementation of a variable net pension by pension funds, including the purchase requirement mentioned earlier in the basic scheme at the latest on the pension date. The initiator has also indicated that the draft decision will be submitted to both Chambers of the States-General in the near future, with the aim of bringing this decision into force at the same time as the legislative proposal we are discussing today. However, we have not yet received this draft decision and we would like to know what is going on with it. After all, it must be avoided that there will soon be several dates for entry into force. This is also the case, I say to the Secretary of State, not to wait too long with the said law of sweeping. In this Chamber, there are times when directors or initiators are complimented on the work done, and then they are overwhelmed with criticism. Now as a born Groninger I'm by nature not so complimentary as to go further than "that's nait wrong" or "that falls mie nait or" we rarely come so that danger you run less quickly with me. For today, I would like to do my best and reverse the order of things, so I would like to compliment you after the critical reflection. Initiator Mrs Lodders and Secretary of State Klijnsma have actually come up with an improved scheme with the Bill Improved Premium Scheme, on which both the participants in the available contribution schemes and the pension practitioners were really waiting. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Postema. I can't say that in Groningen. I call Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. Let me just start by congratulating Mrs Lodder on the enormous effort and effort she has made to come up with this legislative initiative. I would like to thank her and the cabinet for their detailed answers to the written questions put by the various groups. This makes it possible to focus in this debate on a number of important concerns for us. The Bill Improved Premium Scheme provides beneficiaries with the opportunity to invest part of their capital at the time they retire for a future higher pension benefit. People who do not have an agreed fixed benefit but who have built up a capital are thus less dependent on the accidental interest rate on the day they retire for their lifetime benefit. My group believes that this is a good thing. Especially in the current situation with historically low interest rates that are real zero or less, it is very acidic that your accumulated pension capital evaporates from day one after your retirement date and does not yield any returns. However, there are still many questions and difficulties about this bill. These are not so much about the starting point, but about the complexity of the implementation: for pension funds, insurers and, above all, for beneficiaries. In this contribution, our group would like to draw particular attention to this. Making choices is the privilege and, at the same time, the consumer's dilemma. Until a few decades ago we got gas, light and water, Netherlands 1 and 2, the PTT and the health insurance fund almost automatically over the floor. The pension was something that was largely regulated by the employer in consultation with the unions. I am not arguing for the return to that time, but I am also not blind to the so-called "choice stress" of today. We can, or must, now choose the energy supplier that supplies the cleanest or cheapest power. From incomprehensible call and data packages we select the apparently best telecom supplier who also, or not, provides 72 television channels. The last two months of the year are marked by the discussion on Black Piet and which health insurance company with which additional package we should now take up again. The complexity of the latter choice for many people is reflected in the fact that, ten years after the introduction of the health system, the vast majority of insured persons stay where they are every year. In these ten years of market forces, the care premium has increased by 60% for the average insured, but that is another debate. The choice for the retiring participant is many times more complicated and the importance is disproportionately greater. After all, you're as close to the rest of your life as you are to the choice of pensions you make. And the trade-offs don't start a few weeks before you retire, but way earlier. After all, the assessment of the risk profile and the corresponding investor profile that you made ten years earlier determine your options on the pension date. The approximately 1 million members concerned may choose to convert their pension capital into a fixed or variable distribution, or into a combination of fixed and variable. In the latter two options, there are, if understood correctly, different variants of a high/low or low/high benefit pattern and pension providers can come up with their own products. In order to make a balanced choice, the participant should have a clear understanding of his current and future investment profile, as well as the possibilities of the investment mix, and should be able to make a multiannual assessment of the development of his income position. Far before the retirement date, he or she will have to deal with the lifecycle principle on the basis of the prudent person rule. He or she will be confronted with concepts such as standard module pension units, universal calculation methodologies, projection interest, projection return and risk-free interest rates. He also needs to know what the default position is if he doesn't get to choose at all. That is another matter than whether or not we want the physiotherapist in supplementary insurance this year. And then I haven't mentioned the task that it will be to understand that the installation of a fixed reduction in your pension will lead to a stable or even increasing pattern of benefits. This law regulates an important good: the choice to spend your pension capital in such a way that you optimally meet your own needs. He can also prevent large groups of participants from getting rid of it if the interest rate happens to be very low on the date of their retirement. However, this law can only work if there is an equal and transparent playing field among pension providers, which provides participants with an insight into the choices and effects of their choices. Whoever buys a car, as far as I'm concerned, of course prefers to have an electric car that doesn't need to know what's under the hood. However, the driver must know how the car drives, steers, accelerates and brakes to become a safe road user. He must also have an insight into the operating costs. In my group's view, this law can only succeed from the participant's point of view if strict requirements are imposed on the disclosure and care obligations of pension funds and insurers. In our view, the changes proposed by the Cabinet to Articles 44 and 63 respectively 55 and 75 of the current Pension Act and the Compulsory Occupational Pension Scheme Act provide an inadequate framework for this. Also the test of information from the reply of 2 May 2016 of the initiator does not convince us yet. We would like to hear from the cabinet and the initiator how they see themselves that participants and potential participants are taken at hand in the selection process. This should be done in a way that is transparent and provides clear insight into the consequences for the income position of the participant's choice. The use of uniform concepts and unique models by all providers and absolute transparency about the cost of implementation is essential. This must be regulated by the legislator and cannot be left to the market. From reports from the field, we point out that the new law also leads to greater complexity in implementation for pension providers and thereby higher implementation costs. We understand that. But as far as we're concerned, that complexity shouldn't be passed on to the potential participant. This places a great responsibility on the legislator, but also on the pensioners. Can the initiator indicate to what extent she believes that the market is able to implement the improved premium scheme transparently? Does it have any idea where the higher implementation costs will end up? In other words, who is going to pay the bill: those who opt for a partly variable pension or those who opt for a fixed pension?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u20	Mr Lintmeijer does not want the higher costs to be passed on to the participant. Who's gonna pay her?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u21	Above all, I want to have an insight into where the costs end up. I want to know whether it will be a premium for all participants or only for those who opt for a variable pension. I can imagine that the costs are a factor that weighs the choice that is being made. So I want to have an insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u22	There are two lifecycles for everyone, including those who opt for a permanent pension. This is prescribed and must be calculated. That requires advice. The circumstances need to be considered. Who pays if the participant doesn't pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u23	Eventually, everything is paid out of the premiums that we have deposited together. Let that be clear. However, we are also looking with some concern at the decade that has passed and in which hidden costs have often led to disappointments among participants of any kind of insurance actions. As it is now a matter of regulating benefits for people for a lifetime, we want to have absolute transparency about where the costs are and how high they are. Of course that comes from the whole, but it should not lead to excess profits from insurers or otherwise. That's what I meant to say. A specific point is that members of a pension fund often know their interests in consultation between the social partners. That puts a brake on handling costs too easily. Participants with a personal contract with an insurer have little to do during the term and can actually only vote by mistake. Shouldn't there be a legal possibility to opt for a cheaper performer over time? Protecting the participant in the desired extension of the possibilities of using your pension capital is the crucial point for my group in this law. It's about protection in a complex field that few people can fathom. If this law is adopted, we would like to have a robust monitoring and evaluation of the effects from the outset. The main question is whether participants can make their choice for a fixed or variable benefit, or for a combination of fixed and variable benefits, on the basis of clear information and well-thought-out assessments. We are also curious whether the actual behaviour of participants shows that the extended premium scheme meets a wide need. We also want to be able to monitor in the longer term whether the choice of a pension, whether or not partly variable, actually contributes to a net better income position for older people. Finally, we would like to take into account in the evaluation whether the default option proves to be the best choice for the participant in practice. We look forward to the answers of the initiator and the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. People who build a pension and those who are already retired want a good pension. The VVD stands for that. For the VVD Group, the initiative proposal for an improved premium scheme of the VVD Tweede MP Lodders of 15 July 2015 is the swallow of a future-proof pension system that is politically under discussion. With creativity and persistence, Lodders has started an innovative variant of the existing supplementary pension scheme based on the contribution agreement and the capital agreement. In addition, in this context, additional to the AOW. The present system has a lack of risk, i.e. lack of guts, as a basis for determining pension benefits. Due to the increasingly low interest rates, the actual pension payment for a pension participant can be significantly lower than the expected pension in the build-up phase. The actual market interest rate at the retirement date now determines the pension to be paid. After the retirement date, it may appear that the interest rate on that pension date does not reflect the successful development of prosperity. The retired person then no longer shares in that prosperity growth. The core of the Lodders initiative proposal is for my group that Lodders has the courage to propose to open up the existing investment strategy for the premium agreement and the capital agreement by removing obstacles to investment of pension capital after the retirement date. The longer horizon for investment offers the retired under the bill the chance of additional return, i.e. additional pension, at acceptable risks. The legislative proposal reduces the dependency of current low interest rates on the pension date for determining the amount of the pension. I quote Netspar's research report Projectiëntes in improved premium schemes of May 2016: "The Bill Improved premium scheme offers more room for tailor-made work during the benefit phase in terms of both investment policy and benefit pattern." The Lodders initiative proposal prompted the government to submit a similar legislative proposal on 21 November 2015. The government's legislative proposal has been developed in more detail and in more detail because of the solidity and robustness of the Department of Social Affairs and Employment. The VVD Group commends the use of Secretary of State Jetta Klijnsma, who does justice to the difficulty of the technique of pensions, especially under the engine hood in its implementation. It is also to the credit of the Secretary of State that in her letter of 19 February 2016 she informed the House of Representatives that, after constructive consultation with Lodders, both legislative proposals will be integrated into Lodders' own-initiative proposal. My group believes that the discussion on the Improved Premium Scheme Act was a search for the sheep with the five pension legs: better pensions, lifelong maintenance of good pensions, constant purchasing power, no redistribution effects and simplicity in implementation. It is clear to this Chamber that the VVD Group supports this initiative proposal because it simply seeks a better pension for all stakeholders. For the discussion of the new future-proof pension system, the VVD wonders whether the idol of interest has fallen off its pedestal. The crampiness with which interest income is maintained, including in the discussion on the Improved Premium Scheme Act, does not reflect the fact that pension is linked to the strength of the underlying companies. These companies are the source of our prosperity and therefore of our pensions. The mandatory use of interest rate instruments such as bonds seems outdated given the artificially low interest rates maintained by the ECB. Why is no longer invested in shares? The VVD invites the government to investigate, with a view to the future of our sound pension system, alternatives in the neighbouring countries that use the underlying investment portfolio, i.e. a portfolio that also invests in shares, for determining the level of pensions. The VVD recommends that, in the forthcoming debate on the future-proof pension system, which should secure good pensions, consider whether pensions can "breathe" with the returns of companies. The VVD believes that the Lodders initiative proposal is an excellent step in the right direction for a good pension, but we can do even more and go wider for a better and future-proof pension for the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u25	I listened very carefully to Mr Van de Ven. He started by saying that our pension sector lacks courage and a lack of risk. This legislative proposal places the risk mainly on the individual rather than on the collective. Mr Van de Ven agrees. Does Mr Van de Ven also agree with the further development of Mrs Lodder's initiative, which no longer takes risks and therefore no longer opts for projection interest rates, but for stable interest rates?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u26	I hear Mrs Oomen, but I do not know if I fully understand her question. The projection interest rate and the return on an investment portfolio are two distinct things. My plea in this connection is to make it possible, apart from the Improved Premium Scheme Act, to look more closely at the returns of the companies underlying the quality of our society and of our pensions other than solely at the yields generated by bonds. Indeed, the yields yielding bonds are slowly but surely falling. The interest rate is virtually nil. So we can't expect much from bonds at the moment for improved pensions. In the context of this legislative proposal, which deals with a rather limited part of the whole pension theme, namely premium and capital agreements, you can therefore look more broadly. This is therefore an invitation to the government to consider whether it is possible to invest in a variable pension in order to make better pensions possible for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u27	I will not have expressed myself well, but this means that having more courage and taking more risk for the VVD Group does not mean assuming a projection rate, but rather assuming what has been proposed by the government, namely risk-free interest rates. That's what all those bonds you just criticized are in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u28	Apart from the fact that this was a statement, I have the impression that there is a difference between the asset side of the balance sheet and the liability side of the balance sheet. I am talking about income and not so much about the calculation of liabilities. "Risk-free interest" is a strange expression, because interest is an element of risk. Interest is the translation of an existing risk, unless interest rates, as at present, are strongly controlled by the ECB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u29	I was intrigued by the advance that Mr Van de Ven seemed to take in the last part of his speech on the major debate that will follow. Maybe I can save the government a valuable investigation by answering his question directly. Of course, there is different investment than today, but at the same time Mr Van de Ven will be clear that, no matter how excellent the companies that support our economy are, those companies do not operate without risk. However you turn it or turn it around, whoever trades the bond's security for the volatility of the share has to accept that in the system he asks the government to investigate, additional risks will arise for pensioners. Hopefully that will go in the upper direction once in a while, but life is like this; no guts, no glory sometimes it will also go down. Is Mr Van de Ven prepared to accept that consequence in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u30	I thank Mr Rinnooy Kan. If a bond with a zero return compared to a return on shares is stated to move between 4% and 6%, with indeed "death or gladiols" translated into English, nowadays I think that the return that those underlying companies can offer is much more risky than expected. This is certainly true because the spread has increased, because it is now possible to invest abroad. I therefore propose, on behalf of my group, not to switch to 100% shares. It must always be risk-avoidance. I like to speak in Dutch terms. So I am not talking about "a prudent person" but about "a good family man." I am not talking about 'lifecycle' either, but about 'life walk', to make it clear that I am dealing with the individual retirement or the individual pensioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u31	I'm also very fond of the Dutch language. I myself would like a different translation than "good family paternity." I will end with an English-speaking qualification of the recommendation made by Mr Van de Ven here. It could fall into the category "famous last words."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u32	I have another question for Mr Van de Ven. He talked about risk-free interest rates, which could be zero. That's where we're close. Is the risk-free interest rate a good basis for this premium proposal? At first, Mrs Lodder's proposal had expected returns. The amendment adopted by the initiator has changed that into risk-free interest rates. I believe that Mr Van de Ven indicates that this will result in a very low start-up allowance. I am not talking about crooks like falling benefits that are a little bit up-to-date. Basically, the risk-free interest rate leads to the lowest benefit at entry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u33	I thank Mr Van Rooijen for his contribution. For the discussion I would like to make a distinction between risk-free interest rates and projection rates. In this bill we are talking about projection. The Netspar report also shows that there are various effects of the concept of projection interest. You can also vary in that. So I don't think we're having a discussion about an Ultimate Forward Rate, for example. By the way, my input is about the point that you can think about other forms of investment than just bonds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u34	I think Mr Van de Ven knows that the projection interest rate in the bill is currently being filled in by the risk-free interest rate in accordance with the Secretary of State's proposal. Would it perhaps be better if projection rates were not based on risk-free interest rates, but rather on fixed rates which are more in line with the real returns that can be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u35	We have had a discussion in the scheme of interest rates for insurance companies and occupational pension funds. That is a slightly different discussion, but it is also a good discussion. It's the question of what projection interest is going to mean in the future. I would like to give sufficient space to the government and the market to develop that concept of projection interest. If you chose the risk-free interest rate, I don't think you're ultimately offering the possibilities provided for in the bill. You want to offer a slightly better pension by opening an investment opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u36	Thank you for that answer. That's clear. I have one supplementary question. What does Mr Van de Ven think of the mandatory provision of two lifecycles, or lifecycles, which are mainly based on avoiding risks? I would ask again whether better returns can be made if a more open approach is based on a prudent person rather than a life story?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u37	I think that is an excellent question. With me he also played in the preparation of my contribution. I note that we sometimes deviate from English concepts when we can no longer understand or express anything in the Dutch language. I wonder what the differences are between prudent person and lifecycle. The one is more focused on the person. The lifecycle calculation in itself is also an open standard for me, just as the prudent person is an open standard. You can start sketching a profile at some point and continue to expand it. However, it will never take into account the fact that, if I drive home tonight, for example, against a tree, there is nothing left of my entire life as projected. So I would like to leave this to the market in part, as this open standard now exists in Article 135 of the Pension Act. In what is then called prudent person, the pension administrator also has an own contribution as regards the return of the investments. He can then form his own investment policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u38	Mr President, Mrs Lodders as the author of the bill, and Madam Secretary of State. In my contribution I am speaking on behalf of Mr Ten Hoeve of the Independent Senate Group. This proposal makes it possible to improve the premium scheme. My group believes that this is very necessary for a million participants. It is a credit to Mrs Lodders that she moved this dossier with her motion at the time. It was even more commendable that she took the initiative to submit a legislative proposal of her own when it became painfully clear that the cabinet moved this dossier out of spite of pressure from part of the pension field to come up with an improvement. It deserves a great compliment on behalf of our group. Omineus is that the cabinet then also took action with its own bill that introduced not only an individual benefit, but also a collective benefit. The aim was and is to achieve an improved benefit. The ever lower rate of interest led to a reduction in the fixed-rate fixed-rate benefit for the new conversions when the accumulated capital was converted into a fixed-rate benefit. There are two improvements. Investing is an opportunity to achieve that better benefit, as well as letting go of the fixed time. For example, all participants are given the choice between a fixed or variable benefit and that is positive. However, if only it had remained with that initiative. We could have made a very good assessment of that. With the D66 Group, we believe that, in the absence of an amended explanatory statement and in the absence of a revised opinion from the Advisory Section of the Council of State, the original proposals, which are already complex, have certainly become more inaccessible. The 50PLUS Group adds that this merger will result in a draft law which, for the most part, consists of the government's proposal but is defended by the initiator, with the government in the person of the State Secretary acting as usual alongside the initiator, or in this case the initiator. That sitting next to it gets a very intensive interpretation due to an extensive advisory role that sometimes even results in adjustment. All in all, putting together an initiative design and a cabinet proposal in our view is a state-law novel. I think it's okay to call it in here. It is even more a unique event if it takes place at a late stage of the treatment in the House of Representatives, namely on 19 February 2016 and only three weeks before the plenary session on 10 March. Then there will be a letter of amendment of eleven pages that regulates the merger. As a blow to the head, an amendment by Van Weijenberg c.s. The projection interest is ruined. The amendment will then be accepted smoothly by the applicant, with the support of the Government Adviser. However, the 34255 sage does not stop. Mr Vermeij and Mr De Vries on the other side of the House, when their political groups also accept that amendment, put forward at the same time a motion to investigate the pros and contras of all projection interest rates, including the prudent expected return and risk-free interest rate, with the starting point of a single interest rate to be used, and in which the government is invited to send the results of this investigation to the Chamber by 1 May at the latest. The accepted amendment involves different types of projection interest than the risk-free interest rate in the wastebasket, but all further forms of projection interest still need to be re-examined. If our group had not insisted on a more careful examination of the proposal with more time for the written procedure, and had not specifically asked for the state of play in carrying out the examination of the motion, then perhaps the investigation would have been done too late and for the Senate would have been on the table as mustard after the meal, namely after the senate's treatment. I shall return to the investigation at the end of my speech. The 50PLUS Group believes that efforts should still be made to achieve a real improvement in the premium scheme in the interests of the 1 million participants. We are looking at this joint proposal, in particular, at its feasibility, the degree of complexity and good communication and information. The answer to our questions on feasibility, comprehensibility, simplicity and communication aspects is, for the most part, insufficient. Our question about the criticism raised by the Circle of Pension Specialists, a group of 400 pension experts, about the bottleneck of communication to the participant is also not adequately answered. The circle points out that communication to the participant is significantly simplified at an expected projection rate. The circle expresses its concern about the complexity of the merging of proposals and calls for greater clarity and simplicity. The proposal has become complicated by putting the proposals together. The test of information shows that the choice between fixed or variable is complicated. Also, the obligation to take into account the participant's personal circumstances makes a clear advice to his/her person very difficult. I come now to a number of key points of criticism and have a number of questions. I will mention eight topics. The colleague before me had four, but I have eight. That doesn't mean everything, by the way. It concerns: projection interest, pension units, lifecycle, default debt, an English word, Mr Van de Ven; there we go again and further spreading the shocks, shopping law, that is not quite Dutch law, the law of sweeping, but very Dutch, and lower regulation. The first issue is projection interest. In the letter from the KNVG and the NVG dated 20 May, it is argued that the choice of projection yield should not be legally anchored but should be left to the pension fund board. Should it not be feasible to leave outside the law, we are talking about this here, then the board should in any case have the choice between risk-free return and expected return. According to our group, another option would be to regulate the projection interest rate at General Measure of Governance. Will the applicant and the Secretary of State answer these three questions in detail, namely two of the domes and one of our group? Our group also refers to the response of the Pension Federation in the letter of 1 April. Finally, I quote: 'The Foundation of Labour and the Pension Federation have indicated, both in the preparation of the legislative proposal and in the parliamentary debate, that it is appropriate to count on prudently expected returns for all variants. It is precisely in this type of pension contract with a variable benefit that no pension commitment is made and that the risk liabilities are clearly pointed out. The calculation of a risk-free projection efficiency is therefore at odds." This is, in our view, a fundamental remark from the trade union movement and employers and the whole pension field. Our group pointed out this position in writing by the Pension Federation but did not receive a reply. We find that disappointing. That is necessary if we are to have proper treatment here. We ask the applicant and the Secretary of State to respond fundamentally to this fundamental criticism of the Pension Federation and the social partners. If the answer is insufficient in our view, we will certainly come back to it in the second term. In this context, the State Secretary noted that the choice of risk-free interest rates was a political choice. Can the Secretary of State explain again? I shall put it very briefly: what does she mean by this? I will not go into any further details, but it is, of course, an important question. The answers to the questions on projection interest rates also do not address the volatility of benefits and communication issues. With the CDA Group, we regret that the government does not come up with arithmetical examples, because the government believes that this could lead to misinterpretation. We believe that participants should be able to make a choice, and this requires an understanding of the arithmetical consequences of the various choices. So we turn the question around: what clarity will be provided if no clarity is given? A legislative proposal that cannot even provide for simple model calculations, let alone examples of how they will be communicated to participants, and which has not been checked for their comprehensibility, is seriously inadequate. What is the answer of the applicant and the Secretary of State to this criticism? The Secretary of State replies that it is not possible to give these examples in the short term. It will instruct an external party to calculate the impact of an interim transition from a uniform investment mix to investments in accordance with the lifecycle principle. We are in any case positive about this commitment, but it would have been much better if this had been examined at a much earlier stage. Then we could do something with it. We would point out that the proposal has not been reviewed on the implementation and communication aspects. The Secretary of State has not responded to this defect and refers to the autumn. We are now missing the necessary test of the examples, and that is a major loss. Do the petitioner and the Secretary of State recognize this? After the second answer to our questions, our group also objects to the choice of risk-free interest rates rather than the projection yield, which was included in Mrs Lodder's original initiative proposal. We prefer this projection yield, so that the incomprehensible and unexplainable drop in benefit also falls. And about this falling benefit it is sometimes said and written that it could also be stable or rising. That seems to me to be quite contradictory. We strongly ask the applicant and the State Secretary whether they can guarantee that the projection rate and falling benefit will allow for an enforceable, comprehensible and communicatable regime. In this context, I would like to point out, and just now in an interruption, that risk-free interest rates are not risk-free but very unstable and volatile. The second point concerns pension units. The applicant's reply to the pension units does not convince us. It considers that it is not necessary for this to be further regulated in lower regulation and refers to Article 2a of the 2001 Income Tax Implementing Regulation, which is now applied to annuities. This was also provided for in the original initiative proposal. The failure to further concreteise this law means that there are more ways to offer a variable pension based on units, which benefits innovation, according to the applicant. Surely we can assume that there were good reasons for including this in the initiative proposal? What are the reasons for not doing so again? Innovation is beautiful, but clarity and certainty all the more. Will the performer go into this? The draft law is not complete because of the lack of legislation on benefits in pension units. The third point concerns the principle of lifecycle. The prudent person principle takes into account the population of the individual fund and then comes to a responsible risk attitude. We share the position of the Pension Federation in the position paper of 13 May in order to keep the current prudential person rule guiding and not to fill in with the lifecycle principle. This was advocated earlier by the KNVG and the NVOG in the letters of 10 and 20 May. The Pension Federation has taken note with surprise of the answers to the questions on lifecycle investment for existing premium schemes. The Federation states that it is a principle for the pension sector that the prudent person principle is an open standard and refers to the explanation of this principle on the website of the Nederlandsche Bank. An open standard concerns the management of risk derivatives and not the question of how. In practice, solutions other than lifecycles are often used within the pension sector to address the risks associated with a voluntary contribution scheme, especially in the case of gross excess schemes. Now, the cabinet sketches an image as if risk derivatives can only be managed through lifecycles, but according to the federation that is a rather one-sided picture. Is the usual uniform investment policy within the benefit schemes suddenly irresponsible? And what does that prove? Are there not enough examples in which lifecycle investment has led to unwanted results? I should like to receive a strong response from the Secretary of State to the comments of the Federation. The federation thinks it is too short and unwise to say that a switch to a lifecycle is by definition good. The Federation mentions three reasons. Will the Secretary of State comment on the statement and the three reasons? In their letter of 1 April, it is stated that lifecycle investment for existing premium schemes leads to the disadvantage of participants for whom a uniform investment policy has been applied for years and for whom risk management in relation to the prudent person principle has been otherwise implemented. I'd like to receive a response. We ask the Pension Federation whether the cabinet wishes to reconsider the lower regulations on this point and not to unnecessarily undermine existing regulations. In a letter dated 13 May, the Association of Insurers indicated that the draft decision contains elements which hinder the smooth introduction of variable benefits and make implementation more difficult. It then points to Article 14d (3) of the draft decision and states that prudent investment can also be completed differently from lifecycles. I shall return to that point with the delegation. We have asked questions about the lifecycle. The Secretary of State's answer didn't convince us. "Prudent person" is an open standard. With colleagues, we ask the Secretary of State to go further in this respect. The State Secretary replied that in the case of premium agreements the interest of the participant would be to reduce the investment risk as the participant ages. The phasing-out in accordance with the lifecycle principle relates to the construction phase. The State Secretary replied that the fact that this prudent person principle is not now explicitly laid down in the law does not mean that this principle does not need to be applied now. This principle is based on the principle that a pension administrator must invest in the interest of the participant. If the circumstances are such that an investment policy, in accordance with the lifecycle principle, best serves the interest of the participant, as outlined above, the current Article 135 of the Pension Act already leads to the requirement to apply that principle, according to the State Secretary and the applicant. This explanation is thus continued by the government confirmed during the parliamentary treatment of the Pension Act in 2006. The fact that the Nederlandsche Bank advised on 14 August 2015 to clarify this by explicitly laying down the lifecycle principle in the law does not change this. So the Dutch Bank has a bit of a review here. It doesn't happen that often. The positive thing is that the lifecycle does not need to be applied to collective schemes and collective 57-plus schemes. It is also positive that lifecycle can be interpreted widely: there is only a qualitative standard and there are no quantitative rules for investment. We are drawing two conclusions. Parliamentary history is more or less similar to a legal text. That seems to us to be an extensive interpretation. And that should make us careful and prudent not to record something in a legislative text. Why then does not the Secretary of State lay down such an important principle in the law rather than in Article 14d of the draft decision? Why has the advice of the Dutch Bank not been followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u39	I have a question. The reasoning is that, in the case of projection interest, we should not legally anchor it in the main law. On the last part, Mr Van Rooijen now says that we should do so. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u40	Mr Postema understood that correctly. It seems to be a contradiction, but it is about two very different things. I refer to the Vermeij/De Vries motion (34255 No. 27). They have said in the House of Representatives that there are many variations of interest rates. Therefore, do not lay down a single variant in the law, but leave that choice to the pension fund management or put it in lower regulation if necessary. But don't put it in the law, because it'll be rigid for a long time. But we're talking about something else here. The Dutch Bank and many lawyers believe that the prudent person principle is an open standard. We'll say, "One of two." If it is an open standard, you should not capture it further by attaching a lifecycle to it. If that's what you want, put it in the law. Otherwise, it's too unclear. On the one hand, it is an open standard, but on the other hand it is not, because it is said that you have to work very precisely according to the lifecycle principle with even two cycles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u41	Thanks for the answer. I think it's a bit selective shopping, but I follow Mr Van Rooijen's reasoning. But in the sector, of course, the notion of prudent person has been struggling for some time. It's gonna stay that way for a while. That's also part of an open standard. The one-on-one translation into a lifecycle isn't something I've ever understood. I would certainly not add that interpretation. A definition of the principle of prudent person as such is in practice designed with all kinds of measures, including from the legislator. There are also many notions in the ftk that ultimately relate to prudent action. In that sense, it is not such an open standard in which everything is allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u42	No, I agree with Mr Postema. I have also said that it is qualitative rather than quantitative. That's right. But we have also learned from the ftk that so much has been regulated in detail, that pension funds and administrations do not have one millimeter of space. The great thing about the principle is that it is an open standard, which the Dutch Bank too, with all its severity, says that we must leave it that way. If you want to take care of it much more precisely, arrange it, almost like in the ftk. However, it is quite slammed. We do not think that is a good thing. I come very briefly to the fourth point: the default choice. The applicant's answer doesn't convince us yet. Why not apply the variable benefit if no choice is made, because variable is the primary aim of the premium agreement? I would like to receive another explanation. Then I come to the fifth point: the distribution period for shocks. Others have also spoken about it. The government sees no reason to consider the duration of the distribution differently from the five years chosen. We regret that a longer period is not chosen, such as the ten-year period for reductions in pension benefits. I'm coming to the law of the shop, the sixth point. We understand arguments for extending shop law, as advocated by D66. A wider shopping right is in the interest of the participant, but it is complex in its execution. That is why we consider enlargement undesirable for the time being. Can the Secretary of State also comment on this? Then I come to the seventh point: the Sweeping Act and Article 120 of the Pension Act. The position paper of the Pension Federation of 13 May states that a sweeping law is necessary in response to this proposal. See also their letter of 1 April. Without amendment of Article 120 of the Pension Act, the Cabinet makes the variable pension allowance on net pensions impossible in practice for pension funds. Firstly, it is because the basic pension scheme of pension funds is as a rule a benefit rule. Secondly, this is because the mandatory purchase in the basic scheme applies, unless an employer's contribution of 10% is paid for a voluntary net pension scheme, regardless of whether the participant makes use of it. In particular, for occupational pension funds and occupational pension funds it is not possible to impose a compulsory employer's contribution for a voluntary pension scheme. Other arrangements have also been made for many occupational pension funds. The government uses the argument that it does not want to question the job definition agreements. However, according to the Pension Federation, an update of the job demarcation arrangements is highly desirable. I would like to receive an answer from the Secretary of State. I come to my eighth point on lower regulation. The proposal goes hand in hand with a huge reduction in regulation, as shown by the overview we are asking for. The first General Measure submitted by the Board already contains eighteen pages of important provisions and becomes the subject of debate in the House of Representatives. We call for special attention to be paid to the letter from the Association of Insurance Companies of 13 May, which we have already mentioned. Will the applicant and the State Secretary address the issues they raise regarding Article 14d, third paragraph on prudent investment and lifecycles? According to the alliance, this article presents problems with products from the past. Next, I refer to Article 14e, paragraph 1 (b) on the examination of the participant's financial position. The reaction of the Secretary of State on this matter does not reassure the Alliance. The article may be understood as identifying the full personal financial situation of the participant or pensioner in the context of the duty of care. That's too much for the alliance. According to him, the performer is not a financial planner and never has sufficient personal information to determine whether the participant can and will bear the risks financially. It is proposed that in Article 14e, paragraph 1, the words "has indicated that he" be inserted after the word "pensioner." Please respond to this proposal. Article 14c (4) requires that at least one lifecycle be offered in which the investment risk is fully reduced. This fully shrinks to 0% will further reduce the outcomes. The Pension Federation therefore proposes to delete the word "full" in Article 14c (4). Please respond to this proposal. The reaction of the Alliance once again painfully indicates in which splits this bill is located: the importance of a maximum examination of the financial position of the participant and the limitations clearly indicated by the performers. This shows once again that our great concerns about feasibility, simplicity and communication are justified. It is absolutely necessary for the Secretary of State to state where the balance sheet is for practice and for the participant. I'd like a detailed explanation. As I indicated, I've come to the conclusion of Netspar's investigation. We only received the research of Netspar on 18 pages on Friday. This was too short a day to study it properly, let alone ask for and receive responses from the field. Our first impression is that the volatility of the projection rate has not been taken into account in the overview of the evolution of the variable pension payment. This undermines the conclusions of the report, in particular the conclusions on risk-free interest rates as projection rates. Does the Secretary of State want to respond to this? In the meantime we have seen the spreadsheet that is on Netspar's website; we follow everything, even if it comes in late. Apart from the fact that the calculations have been made without mortality, which seems to us to be an irresponsible simplification, we believe that this shows that the volatility of projection interest rates is indeed not simulated. In fact, on tab five of the spreadsheet, risk-free interest rates are increased by all kinds of theoretical and highly debatable surcharges that result in the interest term structure no longer having negative interest rates. How complicated can you make it actuarial? We ask the State Secretary to ask Netspar to make a comparison including the volatility of risk-free interest rates, and then to look at the comparison tables made in the SER report on the basis of risk-free interest rates, including volatility. Then how does that variant come out compared to the other variants? Moreover, this comparison should also be based on Maatman's calculations. Our second request is to examine the projection rate on the basis of real interest rates and to include them in the comparison with the other variants. Finally, we have a completely different question. Can Netspar also mention the extent of the so-called ex ante redistribution, Mrs Oomen? After all, redistribution is the axiom of this legislative proposal, the key element. In fact, the documents do not allow us to judge this. In relation to redistribution, I have also included in the written documents a quote from an article by Bovenberg in De Actuaris yesterday, in which he says: 'The workers are now heavily subsidised by pensioners'. An overview of Social Affairs of 9 October 2015 shows that contributions of 72 billion are too low in the period 2015-2021. This means that the elderly are subsidising the workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u43	Mr Van Rooijen, do you think about your speaking time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u44	Yes. Finally, we are critical of our opinion and repeat with Mrs Oomen the question of whether the original proposal could be tabled or whether this proposal could be put in a kind of refrigerator. Moreover, we do not believe, as will not be surprising, that there should be any reduction next year and in the years to come. We await the reply of Mrs Lodders and the Secretary of State with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u45	Mr. Chairman. Since the end of 2013, the growing low interest rates have become an increasing problem for pension funds, especially for their members. The decision of ECB boss Draghi to throw out some 60 billion monthly and, at the same time, to raise interest rates to zero has pushed pension funds even more heavily than is currently the case. Under the title of quantitative enlargement, free money has been created by this 'kamikazepilot/illusionist', to drive inflation and the economy. Whatever it takes, was his motto, up to and including buying up problem loans from banks. Even give everyone for free $1,000 where have we heard that more? It shall not be excluded from the scope of this Regulation. They are all wild actions, also at the expense of the northern countries and in this case the pension participants. With a strong sense of understatement, DNB says in its last annual report that "the effectiveness of the broad monetary policy has its limitations" and that the unconventional measures can lead to harmful side effects. More recently, DNB is concerned that low interest rates threaten the entire financial sector. A real eye-opener, with the well-known apology to Mr Van de Ven benefit of Hindsight, but it is gratuite wisdom afterwards. Further than noticing and, for all intents and purposes, blaming the funds for undermining the recovery itself by overly speculative investment policy, DNB does not come. The debate on the UFR and its inconsistencies are still fresh in memory. The doom that assumes a short-term interest rate of 1.6% tending, is conveniently ignored by this cabinet. Already, the impact on coverage levels through the shift in the policy coverage rate is considerable, as it is often below the critical 90% limit, but the effects in the long term will be totally dramatic. DNB and the cabinet have 'concept', I also read in the letter from SZW of 25 March last, but it does not get any further. The effects of the nftk I don't mention yet. In fact, the cabinet is transferring the pension problems like a hot potato to another cabinet, just as it has long been the case with the labour market that has run out of track as a result of the flexibilisation that has gone through. The only achievement that this cabinet has yet to come up with in the area of pensions is the idea of pooling small pensions. This is crumbs in the context of a stalled discussion on the organisation of our pension system. It is also salient that the European Commission, for its part, is concerned about our labour market in an in-depth review of its country's report on the Netherlands. Typical is the purple crocodile reaction of the Secretary of State to the recent DNB report. Discounts should not be delayed, as this would further worsen the coverage and make the transition more difficult. This raises the question of whether the problem is not knowingly getting worse, in order to create the urgency for a switch, without it being clear what that switch should mean. It has all appearance of misplaced causality; nothing about softening or delaying discounts. I am afraid that the recently published plan of the ESC will not separate this cabinet from this early, self-chosen policy recess. Fortunately, the SER is helping the cabinet by "yes," here comes the next broad public debate on the proposals. Poldering squared! The view of the Chairman of the Committee on the Future of the ESC's pension system that it is not going to be a big party is a meaningless killer. It already is. And it is easier than a technical update on the worse position of pension funds. It is already clear that every next year the discounts will strike in full intensity, fortunately muffled by the system of the new ftk. After all, every disadvantage has its advantage here. However, the discounts will last for years if they have not been overtaken by the system change. I understand that the initiativer who is trying to defend this bill here has nothing to do with this part of my speech, but it does serve to put the whole thing in some perspective in our view. But perhaps the responsible Secretary of State, who is here today as an advisor, can give some reflection on the ongoing pension crisis due to the low interest rates and the over-flexible labour market. It may already be able to prelude to the ESC plan, but perhaps that is too much to ask at the moment. I would like to invite the Secretary of State to explain in this case why, in the letter of 18 December 2015 on the pension reform work programme, she indicated that this bill would be a first step towards a new pension agreement. Isn't that a little premature? Back to the legislative proposal before us; that in any case limits the scope and the discussion. I would remind you of the very special way in which Mr Van Rooijen has already pointed this out during the course of the debate, as well as the constant flow of documents up to and including Saturday, Sunday. It is not just the DB schemes included in the funds but also the DC schemes in this case, i.e. those with a premium or capital agreement that are so hard hit by low interest rates. At present, it is downright disastrous to be faced with the compulsory purchase of a pension at an extremely low calculation rate in order to receive a fixed and much lower pension for life. And that also applies to the much larger DB group of more than seven million participants, who have not been indexed for about ten years, will not get any more and will also be cut down next year and the years after that. The difference, however, is that the smaller group of DC participants now, at least theoretically with this proposal, has been resolved. This is not in itself contrary, given the absurd effects of ECB policy. The main point is to see this as a selective solution for some of the victims. The DB group is allowed to do so without a solution for the time being. Not a single handout in the UFR discussion. Why not just tackle the root of evil? And that is the risk-free interest rate with which funds have to calculate their liabilities. A UFR which, in a reality of much higher returns, pushes the funds completely irrationally under water, while on the other hand, the premium is still calculated below cost-covering levels; the billions have already been mentioned. Why allow the ECB to carry out its devastating work any longer? What is the reason for this cramping back and expecting all the benefits of the great change in the system, whenever it may be? The aim of this bill is to provide one of the major problem-solved solutions. In fact, it's nothing more than "curriculars am Symptom" and then still hoping that it's really gonna produce something in the longer term. In principle, no one can be opposed to increasing the risk of a higher pension for the group in question. In addition to the standard default option of a fixed benefit, the combined bill allows for longer investment in the benefit phase and also to choose a variable benefit or even a combination of fixed and variable. Research by ORTEC and LCP shows that a higher pension is possible, but also no guarantee. There is no evidence for this assumption, however, which is the reason for this bill. The chance of a lower pension is less, but certainly not absent. The effects of changing from a uniform investment mix to a lifecycle are not even clear at this stage. The present proposal therefore seems to be beautiful and necessary on paper, but certainly raises questions. Above all, the underlying methodology chosen is fairly technical and constructed and certainly difficult to understand for the random participant. It is crucial that the funds are able to clarify the various options and their consequences. It is not only a question of whether real personal information can be given at the various moments of choice, at the time of change of investment policy, at the retirement date and when joining the collective, at least ten years before the retirement age, but also of whether a choice can be expected at all those stages of the random participant. A balance between security and risk is extremely difficult. I would like to draw your attention to the recent SCP report entitled "Pensions: Solidarity and Choice." Research shows that in theory people need freedom of choice, but in practice they do little or nothing with it. Freedom of choice is perceived as a constraint on choice. In this case, deviations from the standard will not occur very often. People want security and no risk, especially in a benefit phase. Investing in the benefit phase runs counter to the policy of reducing investment risks. How can it be imagined, then, that a provisional preference has already been expressed during the construction phase? The question is therefore whether the performers can be satisfied with basic indications based on a number of example scenarios. To what extent is investment policy in accordance with the prudent person principle in the Pension Act really geared to a participant's preference or choice? Should this already apply in the construction phase? How can the participant be informed about this? Is there not a suggestion that the participant determines the investment strategy, whereas in fact the performer must find the responsible balance sheet and be free to do so? How is it possible at all to implement the current duty of care in relation to information on personal financial position, knowledge, experience, objective and risk appetite? Is this really feasible? What are the costs of this circus? A related problem in balancing the purchase is the projection interest rate used as a supposed return to indicate the amount of the pension. Apparently, at the last moment, projection interest rates in all variable variants were chosen for the low risk-free interest rate used by DNB for pension funds. This will lead to a relatively low pension benefit at the pension date, although in the hope that the return will then be higher. Why not choose a more real interest rate? Is it not to be expected that the incentive for a variable pension will not be great? Is, like the UFR discussion, the argument of ex ante redistribution at a higher projection rate so valid? If ex ante redistribution isn't part of this bill, why investigate? The Netspar research looks a lot like "butcher approves his own meat," although I haven't been able to study it in extenso, just like many before me. Fortunately, the initiator failed to meet the wish for unlimited shopping at the highest projection rate. In that case, the legislative proposal would lead to a further choice swamp and open the door to a discussion that goes completely beyond this context and thus undermines the foundation of solidarity in pension funds. An undesirable start to the marketing of pensions. Against the background of what we still believe should be the core ambition, the mission of a pension fund, namely to provide an annual indexed pension, the fixed-down variant is very strange. Expected over-rewards should compensate for falling benefits to the net life-long equal pay. What is the added value compared to an annual fixed benefit which may be less at risk? Even now high-layer structures are possible. This model seems to be the wrong suggestion that an annual indexing is quite possible, but at its own cost, so is the implicit assumption. Especially in this variant with a higher risk profile, the disclaimer states that it is a more risky product than a nominal benefit. It's just what you want as a contestant. The honest story seems to us to be needed in communication. It is striking that, in addition to the standardisation of the projection rate, it has been chosen to apply the five-year spread period in order to mitigate the fluctuations in the variable benefits. This is an additional possibility to reduce volatility, similar to the ftk-systematiek, which may then have a somewhat longer term. The addition that this does not happen because of inappropriate investment policy is strange. That should be appropriate in itself. Please give me an explanation. All in all, the picture is that a potentially redundant system has been designed that has the pretention to offer a variable variant with a chance of over-efficiency, but has been restrained by various interventions in such a way that the added value is limited, as well as the chance of a higher return. It should be borne in mind that any investment risk arising from a variable distribution will lead to greater fluctuations. Why set up an appropriate personal profile in advance with all the effort and costs involved when the system at the back is actually locked? Then what is the chance of a higher return? In this respect, there is a great deal of tension in the legislative proposal. On the one hand, the aim is to prevent investment risks from being completely phased out at the pension date and thus to save them, but on the other hand, the benefit phase should not take an unlimited risk, while, given their duty of care, providers will not be inclined to put risky variants of investment on the market. The predefined dilemma in the consideration of certainty versus risk is thus effectively eliminated in advance. To what extent does the systems of units used prevent extreme fluctuations, apart from comprehensibility? Fortunately, these units of account are under the engine hood of the vehicle, let us say. Can the initiator explain why, as stated in the note of 29 January 2016, this proposal would be easy to understand for both the participant and the pension administrator? Although this proposal seems initially sympathetic, the big question is whether all the pretensions of choices really come from the ground and will lead to more revenue. Is this not the main question of a particularly paper solution to a wicked problem which once again apologizes to Mr Van der Ven and should we not be satisfied with a retirement cut or an extension of it or a modification, which can offer some relief by buying a temporary benefit for two years, and with the above mentioned high/low structures or other pragmatic solutions, such as bank savings and the like? I await the reaction of the initiator and of the Secretary of State with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u46	Mr. Chairman. In his authoritative commentary on the Pension Act 1922, my grandfather, H.A.J. Rinnooy I told you something about him once before and concentrate entirely on everything that had to be arranged for pensioners prior to their retirement date. He thought that was complicated enough. Less than a hundred years later, we are being asked to assess pension legislation, which focuses entirely on the period after that starting date, and which certainly does not shy away from its complexity. The proposal for an own-initiative law Improved premium scheme is remarkable in that complexity, remarkable in its creation, a special co-production of the team Lodders-Klijnsma, bien étonnés de se trouver ensemble; congratulations and remarkable in its role as a foretaste of the major pension reform that awaits us, which I am pleased to see, moreover, that my grandfather will be spared. The objective of this bill, the creation of the possibility of investment after the retirement date, is sympathetic: it offers a number of pensioners a chance, even that, to escape the consequences of low interest rates. But the design chosen by the team is certainly not undisputed. This Chamber has every reason to look again critically at effectiveness and implementation, and today it will also have the opportunity to assess this legislation as a tone for the major reform that is to follow. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will be happy to make use of this last opportunity. I mentioned the bill remarkably in its complexity, and I am not alone in it, even within this Chamber. This is never good news for future performers, nor for future users. Plenty of examples. Thus, in their written contributions, the members of my group invited the proposers to draw up a 'information test' for the extremely complex methodology of the 'periodic fixed benefit reduction' in the view of the group. The courageous attempt in the reply has not reassured them at all. From the trial it appeared, confusingly enough, that the main merit of the periodic fixed benefit reduction was that this benefit should not be reduced in practice. Interested parties will find it difficult to appreciate this complex product based on this test. And this complex product is made up of already inherently complex building blocks. For example, the desirable interpretation of the concept of projection interest among experts, and beyond, is still the subject of some disagreement. I look forward to the response of the proposing team to the earlier questions that have been asked about this, and ask them for a cavalier recognition of the imperfection of the delivered test of information itself. The bill is complex because it aims to map complex arrangements. Complex, for example, because individual investment freedom is difficult to combine with a collective pension provision. Would the initiator wish to explain once again how this law will deal with the individual variable claim within a collective scheme? How can a pensioner become dependent on the composition of a newly formed collectivity in which he or she ends up? Is it true or not that a participant who opts for a fixed follow-up will never be financially disadvantaged by the simultaneous provision by his pension provider of a variable alternative, even at the level of new costs to be recovered from the collective? If so, what exactly is that certainty to be derived from in this law? Was that complexity inevitable now? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in no way convinced of this. Here and elsewhere in the legislative proposal, I resent what I would call our fundamental problem with this proposal. This legislation lays the basis for a variable pension benefit by providing detailed guidance at product level. The product of the 'periodic fixed benefit reduction' mentioned above is a good example of this. Rather than opting for this rule-based approach, it would have been preferable to adopt a "principal based" approach. This would allow pension providers, within clear limits, to maximise the scope of the "principles' to achieve, in their own understanding and creativity, a variety of variable pension product offerings in healthy competition among themselves. What "principles" should be at the basis of the limits within which a variable pension should be designed? In any case, the principles arising from the statutory conditions for tax pension facilitation, the principle that the remaining pension assets in the event of death lapse to the partner, the collective or the pension administrator, and the principle that such assets should not be uprooted before the time of death there. First of all, the so often mentioned "practical person principle," as an essential starting point for an investment policy in which the interest of the participant is central. It is then up to the supervisors, AFM and DNB, to ensure that pension administrators behave in accordance with such a legal list of "principles," preferably without falling into a rule-based approach themselves. Within these limits, the market should be allowed to do its job. Now that this approach has not been adopted, legislation which is more complex than necessary is already a disadvantage in itself and which also excludes products that had earned a chance in the variable pension market. An example of this is an obvious and easy to manufacture product that combines variable pension benefits up to a certain age with fixed pension benefits from that age. How can the exclusion of such a natural product be justified? Would the Secretary of State be prepared to make this kind of "deferred annuity" possible by amending the Pension Act? The fraction of D66 regards the choice of rule-based as a missed opportunity for now and a bad omen for the future. If it will nevertheless support the present legislative proposal, it will do so in the hope that further pension reforms will make the fundamental choice between rule-based and principle-based different than on this occasion. This is an urgent request to this and to another cabinet, but also to the professional pension organisations that have failed in this round to work successfully together. I would ask the Secretary of State to explore how benefits agreements could be followed up in a variable way for those who wish to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u47	You are talking about rule-based and principle-based, Mr Rinnooy Kan. I agree with you. I think you should act more principle-based. However, you are now going to lay down some rules in this legislative proposal which will set out in advance the pension debate that we would like to discuss with you about the principles. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u48	The bill didn't come from me. On the contrary, I regret the line taken in this legislative proposal to concentrate the rules and to leave the principles largely unspoken. I don't really understand your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u49	You would have preferred to have an effect that was based on principle, because it would not be so complicated. So you see that there are too many standards in the rules. By supporting this legislation, you are setting out for the future, for which you would like to have the principle-based basis, and I agree with you that the rules are already laid down. Maybe you should take it back. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u50	So far, you have only heard me express sympathy for the objective of this bill. I'll limit myself to that for now. The question that remains is relevant, also in the light of this intervention, whether and if so, how the present legislative proposal can be implemented in such a way as to create opportunities for a wide and varied range of products. This does not seem to be entirely excluded, even because the draft leaves some traces of the remarkable history that could be helpful in this: for example, the concept of pension units, which is included in the legal text and which is rapidly returning, but in the interaction with pensioners could be a useful and enlightening concept. In any case, two principles are of great importance for the legislative implementation which D66 considers desirable. Firstly, this is an appropriately broad interpretation of the prudent person principle, which has also been addressed by other parties. I can be brief about this now. The Secretary of State opts for a focus on lifecycle investment, and therefore for a rigid interpretation of that concept. The Pension Federation has been surprised by this in a recent letter. Can the Secretary of State remove our concerns in this respect by giving more room for manoeuvre in this respect through a more generous interpretation of the lifecycle? This is an open standard, isn't it? Secondly, my group is calling for attention to be paid to the very limited content of this bill of what has been called shopping law, speaking of ugly English, and thus to the very limited scope for competition that is to be granted on this new market. I see no reason why the pension holder who opts for a variable follow-up under a premium or capital agreement should not be granted an unlimited shopping right on his retirement date, thus preventing him from having to stick to the single variable offer that his current provider wants to present to him. Would the initiator please explain again why I quote the reply 'not appropriate' 'in the light of the purpose of this bill'? D66 attaches importance to the wider choice that would be made possible by a one-off unlimited shopping right and is an opponent of forced shopping. Earlier, I mentioned the complexity of the legislative proposal before us bad news for future users, the pensioners of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Even if a large part of that complexity is concealed in an acceptable way "under the hood," the task remains for them to make an appropriate leap with investment uncertainty; that is a notoriously tricky task. Fortunately, a lot of scientific research has been carried out, which shows that people are often too guided by positive opportunities and are too little aware of the impact of negative ones. In any event, the method of the three scenarios requires an explicit link to the probability of each of the three scenarios, for example, what is the low interest rate? I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. I would urge the Secretary of State, in consultation with the sector and with experts, to make an extra effort in this important area of information and communication. I also mentioned the complexity of the proposal as bad news for future practitioners, the pension providers. It is a category that must be able to take a hit, but they too are having a hard time. This proposal forces them to make demanding efforts towards their clients. They are indeed concerned about this, contrary to what the Secretary of State suggests. Pension funds which wish to continue to offer only a flat-rate benefit shall be granted a transitional period of two years in Article 55 (3). Can the Secretary of State indicate why that transitional period is not awarded to all suppliers? In particular, insurers face a major and complex administrative challenge here. Their specific position vis-à-vis pension funds is still not sufficiently recognised here and there, for example in Article 7c of the Implementing Decision which refers to a stamping risk that does not exist with insurers. I'm rounding up. The D66 Group supports the creation of an investment option for as many pensioners as possible, but is genuinely concerned about the functioning of the market that will be created for this purpose by this legislative proposal. Moreover, can the Secretary of State confirm once again that the holders of net pension schemes and voluntary contributions agreements will also be covered? We hope, at least around two of the shortcomings identified, that the prudential person principle and the right to shop will be linked to a constructive response of the Lodders-Klijnsma team and look forward to their further reactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u51	Mr. Chairman. The pension landscape in the Netherlands is a beautiful landscape. The Netherlands has one of the most beautiful pension landscapes in the world. This is certainly not just the SP Group, many share it proudly. This landscape has been hit by the greatest financial shock this generation has ever experienced. Since then, a deep rift has arisen in this beautiful landscape. A gap between what is and what could be. On one side of the gap, contributions are falling, because the returns of pension funds are so good that pension rules allow contribution reduction. On the other hand, millions of pensioners have been affected for years by the absence of indexation, of pension benefits and of pension building, and hundreds of thousands of pensioners and members are threatened with being reduced next year, because interest rates are so low that the same pension rules do not allow indexation and impose reductions. The pension file is dedicated to bridging this gap throughout the reign of this State Secretary. The draft law before us is another target group, although the initiative is in the House of Representatives, thanks to Mrs Lodders. Unfortunately, I have doubts about the impact of all these efforts on bridging this gap. Retirement mountains on both sides of the gap are increasing, because despite the crisis, the collective savings pots continue to grow heavily due to very good returns on average. In the meantime, the gap is deepening with the state of risk-free interest rates, which are very low. Unfortunately, the bridges that are being built do not connect the peaks of the mountains, but are located very deep in that gorge. The bridge of the financial review framework for collective benefit schemes lies at the depth of the Ultimate Forward Rate. The road behind it does not climb to the top, not even through prudent returns, but has been horizontal for years, flatline, and threatens to descend even further into the canyon next year. If DNB is calling for pension fund coverage, due to the persistently extremely low interest rates and the expectation that 1.8 million people, including 200,000 pensioners, will already be facing a reduction in pensions next year, then it is not surprising that many are very concerned and that pensions are in full political interest. Participants in the largest funds do not seem to need to be cut down next year, but they are also in the danger zone. For example, pensioners and participants in the ABP have already missed 11.7% of indexing over the past few years. The overarching problem is clear. The sensitivity of pension benefits to interest rates, the extremely low interest rates, covering risks in a variety of ways in response to changes in the labour market, as well as risks in the financial markets, for example through the tightening of the Witteveen Framework and the financial review framework, have reduced pension benefits in real terms. This contrasts with the real results of pension funds in the longer term. However, this problem applies not only to premium schemes but also to all contracts. Shouldn't we have this debate in its entirety and, above all, not bear in mind the basis of our system, our beautiful landscape? After all, in the rankings of best pension systems in the world, our system is always at the top. One of the most important lists at this point was that we made three years in a row just after the financial crisis. Then we went down two places and ended up in third place. But now we're back in second place. I don't think that's anything to be ashamed of. What kind of topnotation are the most important ingredients, according to international experts? A first pre is our mix of AOW, according to the pay-as-you-go system and a pension savings fund. This gives a nice balance in intergenerational solidarity and in a mixed dependence on private and public economy. A second fixed value is the high degree of collective risk sharing. As a result, our pensions taken by the bank are considerably higher than in most countries with more individual schemes, and that is something we should not, under any circumstances, abandon as cornerstones of our system as far as the SP Group is concerned. Following this more general consideration, I now come to a concrete consideration of the legislative proposal before us. Hail, also from my group, for the initiator. At the right time she comes up with a good initiative. An initiative proposal is a serious achievement, especially in such an extremely complex area. However, this initiative proposal amends several laws and is considerably more complicated during the process. Many speakers have already pointed that out. For example, the initiative has been merged with the Secretary of State's bill and amended. After examination in the House of Representatives, the amended proposal that crossed the Binnenhof has become more than twice the size of the original proposal. The fact that small mistakes are made in this process is not surprising. A sweeping law can solve technical repairs. But the substance of the proposal still has to be correct before we can let it pass here. It's not easy to judge. Yet we are faced with this task. The broad delegation also makes an assessment of this proposal a major task. I would therefore like to be able to answer three questions for my group after this debate. What is the problem facing the proposal? Does it offer a real solution? Is it the best solution to this problem in the current context? Is the legislative proposal in terms of legal technique and implementation or in any case almost correct, so that any defects can be easily brushed away or repaired? Pension savers with premium and capital agreements, contribution schemes, depend on the interest rate on pension date for the amount of their future benefit. So they are currently suffering from extremely low interest rates. There is no doubt that this is a serious problem. The proposed changes will allow pension capital built up under a contribution scheme to be partly or wholly invested at risk during the benefit phase. This can lead to a higher pension result and makes pensions less dependent on interest rates at the time of the pension date. But investing risk, as much as it is clear, means that there is a greater risk for the build-up of assets. There are no guarantees that interest rates will increase after the retirement date and will not decrease further. The problem is clear, but the solution put forward certainly does not always provide solace. Some of the victims who are now or, where appropriate, seeking a solution by continuing to invest may be even worse off. How big that part is, we don't know. This depends on developments in the financial markets. The bill thus moves more risk to the participant, the retired. Is that explicitly one of the objectives of this bill? In order to reduce the risk to the participant, the investment risk should be reduced in accordance with the lifecycle principle during the build-up phase. So it can go through during the benefit. The pension level should be determined on the basis of risk-free interest rates. A possible indexation can be achieved with this proposal from the expected over-rewards, above risk-free interest rates, if partial risk-investment is chosen. So, on the one hand, a risk-free interest rate is assumed, after which, by running an additional risk, you can add to that low benefit portion. You can make that choice yourself. But with the average knowledge and recent behaviour of financial markets, in my group's view, that is virtually equal to gambling. Does the initiator agree with our group? Will we at least see if we can spread the shocks of those risks over ten instead of five years? Well, then we're just trying to mitigate risks, aren't we? Otherwise, speakers pointed out the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u52	I have one more question about that gambling element. I find gambling quite different from the risk of return. I indicated in my introduction that the fact that the deposit of each euro premium leads to a multiple in the benefit is a real issue of return. This depends on the courage to take risks, which pension funds are very good at. Would you like to explain the word "gambling" again in that context?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u53	In the long term, we can indeed say that our pension funds and the professionals employed there have not shown the individual participants that they are able to make a good return. But even these big institutional investors sometimes make wrong decisions for the short term. Or they make good trade-offs, but then the short-term return, like a few years, can still lead to very adverse results. The financial package leaflet, therefore, always states that the results achieved in the past never guarantee the future. An investment only pays off at risk and in the longer term. That is why there is such a big difference between investment results and risk-free interest rates. But in the short term, investing a wealth is always a gamble. In that sense, I do not want to distance myself from that term. You never know what's gonna happen in the short term when you invest your money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u54	What is the difference between gambling and deciding under uncertainty for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u55	Defining the difference between gambling and deciding under uncertainty depends on which definitions you want to stick to both concepts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u56	I'm very interested in that. In my opinion it is exactly the same and the word gambling is a kind of negative connotation, something that should be avoided. However, in the setting in which we speak here, it is inevitable to make the decision under uncertainty. There is simply no escape from that. One can be accompanied, supported and advised. Expert advice can be used. But no matter how you turn it or turn it, it continues to decide under uncertainty and thus gambling. If that actually covers both concepts, I do not quite see the added value of the comments made by the speaker on the concept of gambling as a tone for the conversation we are having with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u57	If Mr Rinnooy Kan would like to gamble with his pension funds, that is his choice. It seems to me that most people in the Netherlands are looking for the most secure income possible, even after retirement. Let's call that the Swiss sense of life. That's not every night at the casino. I see this differently from the questioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u58	I'm gonna try one more time. 'Cause I don't know if we're gonna see it any differently. If Mr Elzinga calls this a sympathetic bill, which he seemed to do a number of times, he accepts that the associated decisions that the retired person has to take are taken under uncertainty and therefore represent a guess towards the future. It's no different. If you don't want to, you don't have to. Indeed, it opts for relative certainty, but also allows the chance of a 100% chance to run a little better from this low-interest period than will happen to those who may successfully defy this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u59	Following on from what Mr Rinnooy Kan puts down, I would like to point out that the focus should be on how, in spite of the uncertainty, for example, a collectivity allows you to generate as much value as possible and to share or avoid as many risks as possible. I think we are very much in agreement on this. I have already said that these risks are necessary, because without risk there will be no return. However, you can handle it wisely. I found one of Mr Kok's comments interesting. He said, in my words, that choosing a risk-free interest rate today is a pretty risky thing to do. That is exactly what this bill provides a solution to. This offers a way out. We are no longer forced to secure everything at risk-free interest for that one moment. No, they have a choice of investing after the retirement date. I believe that this is important for us when we look at the added value of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u60	Mr Elzinga, I suggest that you conclude your speech as soon as you have responded to this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u61	In this debate, we are determining whether this legislative proposal provides a solution to the problem. In my view, we all agree that the extremely low interest rates, the so-called risk-free interest rates, create problems for the level of benefits and that they affect the purchasing power of older people now and in the future. We're all looking for a solution. In this sense, the objective of this legislative proposal is very sympathetic. Whether the impact in all its complexity leads to the desired result or leads to more uncertainty and, on the contrary, to a risk of even worse incomes for pensioners and future elderly people, we are trying to identify in this debate. I have serious concerns about that. Speakers before me had them, too. I will continue with my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u62	Would you like to go to a conclusion, given the speaking time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u63	I'm gonna do my best to do that as soon as possible. The Vermeij/Aukje de Vries motion stresses that the Lower House has so far opted for the risk-free interest rate for both contracts, according to the motion. For now. The research report Projectierentes in improved premium schemes shows that there are also disadvantages to these so-called risk-free interest rates. Is the Secretary of State prepared, on the basis of this investigation, to examine or possibly prescribe another projection rate, for example a fixed projection rate? According to the same report, it also has the necessary advantages. Or would the cabinet prefer to leave that to the market just like Senator Van de Ven? At least that's how I understood Senator Van de Ven's speech. Or should we leave it to the field of the Labour Foundation and the Pension Federation, as other speakers have suggested? Shall we follow the advice to calculate with a prudent expected return? I too, on behalf of my group, am in favour of the prudent person principle rather than the lifecycle in purchasing benefits. You will understand that the SP Group is not yet convinced of the desirability of the proposed solution to the real problem of interest rate sensitivity. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on feasibility. Something strange happened during the treatment. The field was more than positive at first, but in my opinion it has become considerably less enthusiastic. This certainly applies to a significant proportion of stakeholders and their organisations. For example, two large umbrella organisations of pensioners' interests wrote to the spokesmen in this debate just over a month ago that they supported the importance and urgency of this proposal. However, only one further round of questions and answers was sent to the members of this Chamber by letter from the same umbrella of interests that they came to the following conclusion from practice in consultation with actuarial experts and lawyers. "This legislative proposal in its present form contains so many shortcomings and uncertainties that its implementation will create insurmountable problems." And: "We therefore believe that this proposal of law should not be made law." End of quote. That is a very clear call to us and a complete turn in a short time. I would like to hear a response and appreciation from the initiator and the Secretary of State for this outright rejection. My group looks forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Elzinga. I see that none of the other Members wishes to speak in this time limit. That is why I shall suspend the sitting until 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u65	Madam President. I shall begin by saying a word of thanks to the senators for the compliments, but above all also for the substantive questions. I listened with great interest to the input of the Chamber. It is a special moment for me, but it is also an honour to be here in your midst and to be able to defend my own initiative proposal, the Improved Premium Scheme Act. I immediately note that I am not standing before myself, of course, but above all for the people for whom this law is intended. I am pleased that I am being given the opportunity to discuss this bill with the Senate. A number of senators have addressed the broad issue of pensions. That is right, because many pension issues are topical. Think of the pension premium, the new financial review framework, solidarity, the collectivity, the examination of the ESC, the ECB's interest rate decision and, of course, the discounts announced. A lot of people are worried about that last point. I understand that very well, because all pensioners have worked hard for their retirement. That pension is now under pressure. My initiative law is a modest change in this whole, but it is an important one. Around 1 million participants are therefore likely to receive a higher pension. I'd like to give them that opportunity. It is good to note that it is widely shared that the premium and capital agreements can be improved. This improvement offers participants a greater chance of a better pension. I shall deal first with the issue of the legislative proposal and the process and then with the various questions. I will, of course, focus on the legislative proposal. I have tried to cluster the questions and will do the answer along a number of cubes. Questions have also been asked about the lower regulation, about the contribution or capital scheme, such as net pensions and survivors' pensions, and about Netspar's research. The Secretary of State will answer those questions. We're on the same line as in the written round. In the Netherlands, about 1 million people save their pension through a contribution agreement or a capital agreement. The pension allowance depends on the contribution received, the return achieved, life expectancy and interest. As soon as the employee retires, the accumulated capital must be converted into a lifetime pension. The capital shall be converted at the rate applicable at the time of purchase. Pensioners will reduce the investment risk from the construction phase in the last 15 to 20 years. In the benefit phase of the pension, capital is not invested or very risk-free, so that pension administrators can actually deliver on the commitments when purchasing the pension. In practice, people are now faced with low interest rates. They receive a pension which is much lower than they went out of. I also indicated in the written round that the indication of one percentage point lower interest rates leads to a 10% to 12% lower pension benefits. These people now have no alternative. They are subject to the rules of the current premium and capital agreement. The purpose of this bill is to allow members and beneficiaries who save their pension through a contribution or capital agreement to make an additional choice. The bill introduces a variable pension. People have to choose for themselves. By opting for a variable pension, people are no longer dependent on one purchase moment at the interest rate at the time, but can benefit from a higher chance of a higher pension. The pension capital can be transferred after retirement, after which the investment return is added to the pension capital. This creates a longer investment horizon during the build-up phase. The urgent nature of the problem has already been demonstrated by the fact that not only me, but also the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment has tabled a legislative proposal. I'm gonna come to the trial with this. Almost all parties, in particular CDA, 50PLUS, PVV and D66, have pointed to this particular process. Both legislative proposals had the same objective, namely to allow for higher pension benefits for members and beneficiaries by means of longer investment. At the request of the Lower House, both legislative proposals have been merged. In close consultation with the State Secretary, the elements of the government proposal have been integrated into the initiative legislative proposal. By merging both legislative proposals, the original legislative proposal has been considerably extended and strengthened. The Improved Premium Scheme Act, as it now stands, provides a framework for pension practitioners to offer a variable pension. The product, a variable pension, is not described in detail. Failure to give more concrete expression to this law means that there are more ways to offer a variable pension, which benefits product innovation. At the same time, the scope for pension fund management is not unnecessarily limited. A number of Members have expressed concerns about the complexity of the subject and have called for attention to be paid to the position of the participant. I will go into this in a moment. I share that the pension is complex and complicated. The purpose of this law is to give people the choice between a fixed pension and a variable pension. In the case of a permanent pension, people choose security. In the case of a variable pension, although the pension is more uncertain, there is certainly a real chance of a higher pension. Where I have been at meetings to discuss this initiative over the past period, I noticed that a large group wants to make that choice. Others don't want that, and it should be possible. I shall now answer the questions, first of all those concerning the variable pension. The law makes it possible for contributions and capital agreements to continue at the benefit stage, so that there should not be a single time to purchase a lifelong pension. In concrete terms, this means that participants can opt for a variable pension execution, not receiving the same amount every year. The amount can fluctuate and is more dependent on investment returns. The choice of a nominal pension remains. It's an extra moment of choice. All studies carried out show that the risk of a higher pension is increased if the investment horizon is extended. That's why this bill is there. The benefit may also be reduced. Participants must realize that. There is a task for the pensioners. This is also about communication, which I will be discussing in a moment. In this bill, the prudent person principle, the responsible investment, applies. Pensioners should invest, as in the current situation, in the interest of participants. The prudent person principle aims, on the one hand, to ensure that pensions are as high as possible and, on the other hand, to ensure adequate security. To the question of what can happen in a pessimistic scenario with a variable pension, I can answer the following. Research carried out by Aon, in addition to the research carried out by Ortec and LCP, to which a number of delegates referred, shows that even then investment in the product is still expected to be better than an individual product that is not passed on. This is because, on the one hand, an investment horizon is extended in the build-up phase and, on the other hand, people do not have to buy the pension at the current interest rate at once. A number of questions have been asked about the prudent person principle in relation to the lifecycle. The Secretary of State will elaborate on this in her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u66	I'm going to go a little further on the last point. I suspect that Mrs Lodders will respond to the concern I have expressed about appropriate information to future pensioners about the uncertainties they are facing. I have said that it seems to me first of all essential that the three scenarios should be associated with related probabilities. My question is whether this is the intention or not. Will that still happen? I think I've read that before, but frankly I'm not sure whether it was the reality or the desirability that the optimistic scenario would be associated with 5% quantile, the pessimistic scenario with 95% quantile and the normal, expected scenario with 50% quantile. My second point was that, quite apart from the ratio, there is also a lot of unreasonable and irrational in the way people deal with uncertainties. In particular, it is very irrational that we concentrate much more on positive opportunities and on positive things that can happen to us than on negative opportunities. This is something that can be addressed in information, but this makes it necessary to provide more information on the negative risks than is currently the case, for example on the impact of something that can happen in such a bad case. People often don't realize that enough. More information can bring them to a purer and more sensible balance. Does Mrs Lodder agree with me and does she agree with me that this is an additional follow-up question, to which I addressed the Secretary of State in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u67	Thank you for this question. The first question is whether it is intended to be communicated in a pessimistic, an expected and an optimistic scenario. That's the case. Pensioners are obliged to communicate in those three scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u68	I know, but my question is whether it is explicitly the intention to associate with those scenarios probabilities. The words "optimistic" and "pessimistic" are still rather vague. In the way the scenarios are constructed, there is the possibility of doing so. So my question is whether that is the intention at all and, if not, whether Mrs Lodder agrees with me that this would be desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u69	In any case, it is desirable. The intention is that the three scenarios are not only based on a thought, but actually take reality into account. They must be based on something, otherwise we will not need a pessimistic or an optimistic scenario. It should actually be outlined on the basis of the expectation at the time of a pessimistic scenario. That is the intention of the bill. The supervisory authorities have a role to play in assessing whether this is being done in a good way. The lower regulation still covers the three different scenarios and what exactly they have to comply with. This is set out in the lower regulation. That is not only true of this law, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u70	I would like to go one step further on this point. For me, it would also be important to know the parameters underlying the different scenarios presented. In particular, the parameters should be applied and applied in a uniform manner by different parties in order to make the comparability of proposals transparent and visible. It's not just about giving people insight into the risks they run in their choice. For the comparison it is also important to know that those risks have been assessed and applied in the same way by each party. Otherwise, it could be wishful thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u71	To Mr Lintmeijer's question, I can answer that the parameters are included in the lower regulation setting out the three scenarios. I don't have them right now. I don't know if the Secretary of State can say anything about it. I have to look at the Secretary of State occasionally for the lower regulation, but otherwise I will return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u72	I am not talking about the exact figures, but about the system that is being applied and its uniformity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u73	Mr Rinnooy Kan's second question was on balanced communication. It is important to communicate with participants in a balanced manner. There is a great deal of attention to this in the Pension Act. What is balanced communication? I will go directly to the information services and take the questions that have been asked about them with me immediately. A pension is complicated for a lot of people. That is what different groups indicated. The groups of the PVV, GroenLinks, Party of Labour and the SP have drawn attention to this. The Pension Communication Bill has improved communication in a number of areas. Information on a variable pension must be given carefully. The general information on a variable pension receives the participant in the start letter at the start of the scheme. In addition, the participant is informed annually through the uniform pension statement, the UPO. The person-oriented information on the level of the pension and the risks is shared when choosing a fixed or variable pension. The pension administrator is obliged to provide the participant and the former participant with relevant information on the consequences and risks of his choice. The report of the pessimistic, expected and optimistic scenario is included. The pension provider should also provide an overview of the amount of the benefit if a variable pension or a fixed pension is chosen so that it can be compared. For the sake of completeness, I note that the Pension Communication Act requires a balanced pension communication from the pensioners. A participant must therefore have all relevant advantages and disadvantages to make a choice. The supervisor will monitor this. In this way, the pension administrator can help the participant make his choice. We share that it is complex, but due to the way in which both the Pension Communication Act and here a number of elements have been added to inform the participant in a balanced manner, the participant should be able to make the choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u74	I have no doubt whatsoever of the good intentions, certainly not of the initiator. Nor do I doubt the good intentions enshrined in the law. What I still have a little doubt about is whether all the insights in the proposal have really been incorporated, including the insights that have emerged in recent research into how people deal with information about uncertainty: sloppy, irrational and unreasonable. I ask Mrs Lodders or the Secretary of State to try to inform the sector and to confront these insights. They can be surprising, precisely in their asymmetry and in the difference between the way people appreciate positive opportunities and negative opportunities side by side. I would like to encourage that we do not lose a chance to inform those who ultimately have to deal with the uncertainty in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u75	In response to that question, I can state that the Secretary of State and I are talking to both the supervisors and the field to ensure that the rules that have been set can be shared with the participants in a clear and balanced way. We will certainly take that up in the future of the process, but, of course, there is also a role for the supervisor. He must assess to what extent communication about the advantages and disadvantages is balanced. I believe that Senator Rinnooy Kan and the other senators who have asked questions on this subject rightly note that very different investigations have been carried out that show how participants and pensioners deal with certain choices. That is actually the response I would like to give to the questions that have been asked about the taste of communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u76	The performer shall inform adequately and in a balanced manner. It's in the Pension Communication Act. Is there anything extra to this very complicated product? Are there gonna be any other rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u77	The Improved Premium Scheme Act includes some additional elements and additions under the Pension Communication Act to which a pension administrator must comply. I have just mentioned a number of things. Once again, the supervisor will assess whether the communication is balanced, but we are not there yet. In the coming period, in which the products of a variable pension are developed, attention will have to be paid to this by product. After all, it is important that participants can make the right choice. The original initiative proposal was based on a variable pension in pension units. Mrs Oomen, Mr Postema and Mr Van Rooijen have asked questions about this. I chose this because it is an existing product, namely Article 2a of the 2001 Income Tax Implementing Regulation, as is currently the case with annuities. An advantage of connection here is that this is an existing product and is therefore quick and easy to import. The field has also indicated that it wants to have various choices. This can be done, among other things, by using units, but it doesn't have to be done. With the field I believe units offer a good way to arrive at a variable benefit. As Mr Van Rooijen pointed out, this can therefore be done on the basis of the 2001 Income Tax Implementation Scheme, as set out in the original own-initiative proposal. By releasing this now, this can also be done in other ways. In my opinion, this proposal is basically based. I shall come back to that later, because Mr Rinnooy Kan had a broader interpretation of principle-based. I certainly do not want to ignore that, but it is therefore up to the supervisory authorities to assess whether this is the right thing to do. After constructive consultation with the Secretary of State, I have chosen to give more space to pension administrators in addition to units, so that product innovation can take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u78	Mr. Rinnooy Kan, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u79	Yes, I'll be very brief. To avoid misunderstandings: "pension units" is a concept, a concept, in which a clear commitment is essential. I would therefore like to avoid that concept being drawn into the general discussion on principles or rules, because that concept needs to be clearly understood. With the reference mentioned by Mrs Lodders, I assume that this has happened, but for the record, I do not wish to promote this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u80	That is why I shall return to that discussion later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u81	Mrs Lodders' text, which I have already quoted this afternoon, states that she believes that it is not necessary for this to be dealt with in lower regulation at this stage. Does this suggest that this might happen after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u82	That can be done, if there are any questions, but we have said that this does not need to be included in the lower regulation for the time being, because this is an existing product and also because of the reference to the 2001 Income Tax Implementing Regulation. That is what we are talking about. A variable pension based on pension units is therefore still possible, but there are even more possibilities now. This is also in line with the wishes of many parties in the pension field: pension administrators, but also the Koepel of Dutch Associations of Pensioners and the Dutch Association of Pensioners. Some senators have asked a question about the default option. As Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Lintmeijer pointed out, the default option is the default option. So it's still a flat-rate benefit. I believe that participants should explicitly opt for a variable pension. I therefore opt for a certain option, as Mr Postema said. Although a variable pension offers more chances of a higher pension, the pension can also become more uncertain. Pensioners will need to inform their participants properly and will need to indicate how a scheme of investment suits the participant. An evaluation clause is included in the law. The operation of the standard option seems to me to be a very important point for this evaluation, as Mr Lintmeijer pointed out. The bill provides the contracting parties with the opportunity to spread coincidences and setbacks over time. The distribution mechanism shall cover a period not exceeding five years. The coincidences and setbacks are entered unconditionally, only spread over time. It has not been chosen for a longer spread, because it may lead to ex ante-redistribution effects, but I also hear a broad request in this Chamber to reach a period of ten years. Given the broad wish of the Chamber, I will ask the Secretary of State to extend the distribution period to a maximum of ten years. This could possibly be done in the sweeping law. I would ask the Secretary of State to say something about that in her term. I had already announced that I would go into principle-based. This legislative proposal provides a framework to allow contracting parties to organise the scheme in such a way that it is appropriate to the wishes of the contracting parties. For example, there is the freedom to invest the longevity risk with the pension administrator or with the collective. The distribution mechanism is optional, but in addition, the legislative proposal offers several possibilities to offer a variable pension. This can be done according to the systems of the units, in which I have just been extensively stopped, but performers can also shape this in a different way. This space fits the desire not to regulate everything closely, but to ensure that innovation, the development of new products, is possible under the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u83	Is it possible, in the way the initiator thinks, that this is an individual scheme in which the individual longevity risk is not covered by the performer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u84	That's possible, because then the risk will be with the participant. That is indeed possible with the legislative proposal. I can well imagine that Mr Rinnooy Kan wants more room for principle-based thinking, because in his speech he gave a more detailed explanation of this. I have taken the current law as the starting point for the initiative proposal, but I can imagine that the broad pension debate will certainly look at more principle-based, as Mr Rinnooy Kan has asked for his speech. Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Kok and Mr Van Rooijen have drawn attention to shopping law. The aim of this bill is to improve the contribution and capital agreements by giving all members of the premium agreements the choice between a fixed pension and a variable pension. The bill therefore introduces a limited shopping right. If a pension administrator only offers a fixed or variable pension, the participant has the right to move to another performer. With this limited extension, they always have a choice between a fixed or variable pension. The premium and capital agreements carried out by an insurer already have an unlimited shopping right. This means that, independently of an insurer's offer, participants can also request a quote from other insurers and choose the most appropriate offer. That has already been the case for this initiative proposal, and it will remain so. I can understand the question put by the honourable Member, Senator Rinnooy, to introduce more extensive shopping rights to pension funds. The starting point of this bill was to make it possible for each participant to opt for a fixed or variable pension. This is regulated with the introduction of limited shop law. A wider shopping right can certainly be interesting, but I chose to move this to the broad pension debate in this initiative. I have already raised a number of points on the provision of information. Mrs Oomen of the CDA asked if this bill is only for high pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u85	If this is the response to the question I have asked, there is, as far as I am concerned, a great deal of tension with what Mrs Lodder started with. That was because this bill offers so many great opportunities for innovation. We all cheer them up. At least I do. At the same time, there is the observation that the fruits of this innovation will only be very divided. If the pension fund in which I find myself comes up with a variable option and I want a variable option, then I have no choice at all. The innovation that takes place on the left and right of it is then out of my reach. We agree, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u86	We agree. I would like to stress once again that, when we introduce a broader shopping right for pension funds, or indeed an unlimited shopping right, this could have a number of other consequences. I didn't examine it. That's why I thought it was important to introduce limited shopping rights. Once again, I can very much imagine the wish. As far as I am concerned, the debate on this should be held during the wide-ranging discussion on pensions. In the meantime, we may be able to use it to give an idea of what the consequences might be of a wider or unlimited shopping right with pension funds. Actually, that's what we're talking about. I had come to Mrs Oomen's question about whether the bill is only for higher pensions. I would like everyone to be able to choose a variable pension regardless of the income or the amount of the pension. I think we can agree on that. Participants of course do not have to make this choice, but it is possible if they want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u87	In contribution schemes, pensions are usually slightly higher. Suppose you have a higher pension of €2,000. That means you're going to opt for a lower pension, because you have to invest the rest. Does Mrs Lodder think that there will be many people who will make this choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u88	Mrs Oomen asks why a variable pension would start with a lower pension. I don't quite understand that question. The moment someone opts for a variable pension, it will be similar in the start-up phase to, or I think even slightly higher than a fixed pension. A variable pension has a higher investment horizon. The investment risk does not need to be reduced towards the pension date. The initial capital is thus already higher. Then we can talk about the falling benefit. Maybe that's what Mrs. Oomen means. If a reduction in the benefit is chosen, that actually means that risk-free interest will be used to redistribute the capital. I had a slightly more detailed answer to that. With your permission, I'll come back to the falling benefit. I'm gonna hold on to the line of my speech. I will now come to the projection interest rate. Almost all senators have asked questions about that. A number of senators ask why a higher calculation rate has not been chosen, for example on the basis of expected or prudent expected returns. From the field and the House of Representatives there is a great desire to calculate in the individual variant the same interest rate as in the collective variant. This prevents competition only on the basis of interest rates. You can then opt for higher interest rates or risk-free interest rates; as far as risk-free exists, of course, because a number of senators have also paid attention to this. When you opt for a higher interest rate than the risk-free interest rate, the collective variant really leads to an ex ante redistribution. That is not the intention of this bill. Therefore, the risk-free interest rate was chosen in both variants. This therefore prevents competition on the basis of interest rates. It also prevents redistribution in the collective variant. In addition, it has the advantage that there is a very high chance that the pension will be adjusted upwards rather than downwards. "Underpromise and overdeliver," the group of D66 in the House of Representatives already indicated nicely. I apologise for this in the direction of Mr Van de Ven. In most pension funds, it is the other way around. That too is a good reason to opt for risk-free interest rates. That is why this is enshrined in the bill. This prevents competition and disproportionately high interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u89	From the beginning of Mrs Lodder's speech, I understood, if I have listened carefully, that a slightly lower interest rate would lead to a much lower benefit. If we now assume a much lower risk-free interest rate, there is a greater risk that the benefit will be adjusted upwards, but then the basis is much lower than when we assume a more real or prudent expected return. That is why I understand that the field would have preferred that prudently expected return. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u90	That's right. However, we would have to work with two different projection rates. The explicit request from both the field and the Lower House was right not to do so. In order to be able to start a higher benefit after that, a pension administrator can opt for the declining benefit. So what Mr Elzinga says is right. I would therefore like to return to the earlier questions raised by Mrs Oomen, Mr Kok van de PVV and Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS, who asked whether the declining benefit is clear. The declining benefit is a way of starting with a higher benefit than if only risk-free interest rates were chosen. By redistributing pension capital, a higher initial allowance is possible, which is expected to remain the same. This is because the excess return is higher than the risk-free interest rate. The fall in benefits is therefore not expected to fall in practice. In fact, we should be talking here about a "nominally stable benefit." That would be a better definition and a better explanation than the term "descending benefit" we have used today. In future, therefore, we will be talking in particular about a nominally stable benefit when we talk about falling benefits. I think that will increase clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u91	I'd say the latter is, too. I think it is a clearer, or at least less confusing, term. That other term doesn't seem very convincing to me. I think that an interest rate based on a prudent expected return gives much more clarity. Of course, it can always be adjusted if there is reason to do so. Normally, this will not be necessary in the vast majority of cases if interest rates are set at a real, prudent level. You do not need to speak of a nominally stable benefit or a declining benefit. You'll just have a better pension, which, if I understand correctly, was actually the intention of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u92	Mr Elzinga certainly has a point there. At the moment we choose that interest rate, we work with two different interest rates in the individual and the collective variant. The wish from both the House of Representatives and the field was clearly to work with one interest. We are not talking about risk-free interest rates, but if we start calculating expected return, this would lead to an ex ante redistribution in the collective variant. That's what we don't want with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u93	It could lead to an ex ante redistribution, but it doesn't have to. In most cases, that will not be the case at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u94	The Secretary of State will also comment on the Netspar investigation, in which this has also been concluded. The moment it could happen and it happened, we can't fix it. That is why this choice was made in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u95	I referred here this afternoon to the quote of the Labour Foundation and the Pension Federation. The end of the quote is: "Calculating with a risk-free projection efficiency is therefore at odds." In other words, they consider that the main element of the premium agreement is the expected return. I understand that the field and the House of Representatives feel that there should be a level playing field. However, we keep to the question of why not opt for the expected return in both the individual and the collective variant. The argument is that then an ex ante redistribution takes place. I have already said this afternoon that this is a kind of axiom in the reasoning. It comes back on every page. That brings me to the question of whether the Secretary of State and the applicant will be able to indicate again in the second term how heavy and how large this ex ante redistribution is. I have said for a reason this afternoon that we are going to redistribute the 10 billion from the elderly to the young in a very different area, that is to say, in the case of the reduced premium. Bovenberg calls that subsidy from old to young. Here is then some redistribution from young to old, where people who live a little longer with the expected return in the beginning might get a little too much. You'd almost say they're gonna miss this. So I ask you to demonstrate how fundamental and how difficult it is to finally make the link at the lowest level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u96	Mr Van Rooijen asks me to go into the ex ante redistribution in the second term. I will, of course, try to do so in the second term. I will confirm, once again, that I have chosen to base this bill on the same interest rates in both the individual variant and the collective variant. I deliberately didn't choose an ex ante redistribution. I will come back to this in the second term. Moreover, in the case of the nominally stable benefit, I would like to say that the present capital is distributed differently in the direction of the senators. That, I say to Mr Postema, means that there can be no more expenditure than there is. The higher start-up benefit is also limited in the bill. So it can't be disproportionate. There's a limit to it. The questions on Netspar's research will be answered by the Secretary of State. Senator Lintmeijer asked a lot of attention for the participant. He even mentioned "a firm evaluation." I have to agree with him 100%. He came up with some topics he would like to include in the evaluation, for example the need for this bill, the comprehensibility for participants and the default option. As far as I am concerned, these are very valuable elements for the evaluation. I will therefore urge the Secretary of State, who will evaluate the law, to include these elements in the evaluation. I now hear a positive response from the Secretary of State next to me. I have not yet answered a number of questions. I have placed this disrespectful under the heading of 'other', but that does not alter the fact that these are also very important questions. Mr Postema asked whether a fixed rising benefit would also be possible. I can confirm that. The Van Weyenberg amendment accidentally removed the sentence from the legislative proposal. The law does not now prohibit an increase in benefits, but for the sake of clarity, I think it would be useful if the sentence in question were to come back into force. I will go in consultation with the Secretary of State to incorporate this sentence back into the bill by means of the Sweep Act. That is so clear, as Mr Postema pointed out. Senator Oomen and Senator Kok asked if an extension of the pension cut wouldn't have been easier. The pension cut is indeed a solution to stop buying at one time. However, you still have to buy two or three times at a haircut. With this bill you can invest further, which ensures that you do not only purchase once and, more importantly, that you can invest longer in the build-up phase, thereby extending the investment horizon. That increases the chances of that high pension. This bill therefore goes beyond the retirement cut and benefits both participants and pensioners. At the retirement cut, you stay dependent on the low interest rate. The groups of PVV and GroenLinks asked about the costs. It's up to the pension administrators to calculate the costs. They may therefore decide how to pass them on to the participants: only to the participants of a variable benefit or also to all participants. It's up to the pensioners to decide for themselves. I came to the end of my answer. I hope I have answered the questions sufficiently. If that is not the case, I would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u97	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the honourable Members who have spoken in the first term. They have said commendable things about the Improved Premium Scheme Act. The way we sit together now is very special. What is on the table is an initiative proposal by Mrs Lodders. We're in it together. We have also jointly submitted this bill to the Lower House and now also to the Upper House. So now it's the art to finish this duet, because that's what it is, actually. I am trying to answer the questions that remain and the questions that have been specifically asked to me. In fact, I am in the role of supporter of Mrs Lodders. A large number of members of the First Chamber have addressed the broad perspective of today's pension world. You can say a lot about that. I have "recorded" the House of Representatives and the First Chamber about the situation that is now under discussion. We are also very much engaged in the system discussion. We will certainly come back to that in these circles. Now it's good to focus on this bill. We want to see if the law can help improve the premium scheme to take further steps. That seems to me to be the main issue for now. Mr President, if you will allow me, I will try to reply to each honourable Member. I am going to go straight to the list and start with Mrs Oomen, who bit off at the beginning. She asked why the distribution period was limited to five years. Mrs Lodders has just mentioned this. Mrs Lodders and I both note that the desire to extend that period is very broad in this Chamber. Not only Mrs Oomen but many more spokesmen have drawn attention to this. We originally opted for this five-year distribution period. Spreading does not, of course, take away financial setbacks; they are only passed on to the future. We listened very carefully to the Chamber. We also find a ten-year distribution period acceptable. I therefore propose that this period of five years should be increased to 10 years in the law on sweeping. A further point of attention is the prudent person principle and the lifecycle principle in investing. In fact, all Members of Parliament have stressed this point. The Pension Act requires pension administrators to invest in the interests of the participants. That's the prudent person principle. The legislative proposal provides for this to be further completed by the provision that the pension administrator must take into account the age of the participant. That is not a quantitative standard but a starting point. The draft decision, the AMvB, provides that the exporter of a premium agreement must invest in accordance with a lifecycle. The Court has asked for calculation examples of the effects of an interim transition from a uniform investment mix to a lifecycle investment mix. I have now promised that I will have the consequences calculated by an independent external agency. I would like to say that I have listened to the Chamber very carefully and that, if that study shows that a switch to lifecycle investment has no added value for the participants, I will adapt the decision accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u98	If I understand correctly, we are now going to have an investigation into the old interpretation of the prudent person principle. If I understand correctly, the performers are now investing prudently for that group and lifecycle investment is not prescribed. If the Secretary of State prescribes or continues to prescribe that lifecycle, and only investigates it, that means quite a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u99	Yeah, but I'm doing a handshake at the Chamber. Again, we both listened very carefully. This form of investment will be discussed from 1 January 2018. So I would like to take advantage of that time to get that research done and to get a good insight into whether investing on the basis of the lifecycle principle has added value. If not, we'll take it out of the law, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u100	There is still at least confusion on this subject. I believe that I am not the only one who invests in the interpretation given by the Secretary of State to the prudent person principle as a lifecycle as an association, a narrowing and a containment of what began as a relatively open standard. The Secretary of State now seems to suggest that the legislation as it already exists leaves her no choice. That is contrary to many reactions from the field. Can the Secretary of State tell us again what exactly is going on here? Does the Commission consider this to be an existing regulation or a new initiative? In the latter case, at least some of us seem to think, this is not enrichment, it is impoverishment, and we regret that it is impoverishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u101	Some of the honourable Members have coloured it in this way. We have, of course, looked at how exactly you should deal with investing in this context. Investing Lifecycle is a very important phenomenon, because when you're young you can take more risks than when you get older. That is why we have also taken into account this type of investment and sent it to the Chambers in an AMvB. That AMvB is now with the Council of State. That is why I am now saying that, on the basis of this research, I would very much like to look at the added value of zooming in on lifecycle investment. That is where Mr Rinnooy Kan has a point. You could say that investing in lifecycle is, as it were, an extra part of the prudent person principle, because each operator invests in it on the basis of it. The Dutch Bank is very attentive to this. And then they zoom in on that life-span, if I may put it that way in Dutch. So I would now like to have a closer look, also on the basis of this debate, at whether there is any added value. If not, we shouldn't. And because we are not really working on this until 1 January 2018, we have time to implement the research properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u102	I saw Mr Van Rooijen sitting in the chair before Mrs Oomen. However, I understand that Mr Van Rooijen will first give Mrs Oomen the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u103	That's how collegial we are. The Secretary of State says about the prudent person principle with which default is invested, that we have always done so. But apparently it's not good and that's why she's introducing something new into this law. And if we approve it, she's gonna look at it afterwards to see if it can't be done better. Let me get this straight. The Secretary of State actually does not approve of the way in which investments have been made so far. After all, it wasn't good. That's what the Secretary of State says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u104	I say that we have put more focus on the life cycle in this context. We also shared this with the House of Representatives and placed it in an AMvB. On the basis of this research, I now offer to look closely at whether there is indeed an added value. I think that's a good idea myself. And if that added value isn't there, you should say equestrianly that you won't introduce it as of January 1, 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u105	Mrs Oomen has cut me some grass, but I can be a little shorter. However, I agree with her comment. However, I would like to reiterate that the Pension Federation considers this to be a matter of principle. And that's the field we're talking about here. The performer and the secretary of state often rightly say that they listen well and also the House of Representatives listen very carefully to what the field wants. But the field says this is a point of principle. The Dutch Bank says that it is an open standard, whatever you think. So you have to take into account the risks -- that's the open standard -- but it's not about how. But it's how it's filled out here. Mrs Oomen pointed that out too. That's a containment of what wasn't there before. You can say: let's accept it for the time being, because we still have a year to go. However, it is not clear to me why the Secretary of State does not say that she will take this back. After all, it is in legal history, but not yet in the law. Why doesn't she come back to that, apart from the study? Otherwise, I have the feeling that this principle of lifecycle will be further endorsed, while at the time it was merely in a response from the Pension Act. A written reply does not contain the legal text.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u106	Mr Van de Ven, do you have a question following that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u107	No, I'll hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u108	I have indicated that the AMvB's pending procedure also focused on this lifecycle principle. The AMvB has been to your chambers and is now with the Council of State. I have said that I would very much like to take advantage of the research we are doing to look at the added value of the lifecycle principle. Following completion of the results of the study, we will examine whether or not to introduce this principle as of 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u109	It seems to me to be an excellent idea to think about the introduction of the lifecycle principle. Does this also affect the information to be provided to the insurer or to the pension fund by those who build up a pension and beneficiaries? There is also some uncertainty about this. Is the information that is proposed to be given still manageable and enforceable? And does the pensioner and the pension-builder still get it all? I'd like the answer to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u110	I have also listened carefully to the debate between Mrs Lodders and Mr Rinnooy Kan. That was also about communication as such. I would like to make a practical proposal to consider, once the results of the research have been completed, whether communication on lifecycle investment is necessary, if we are to introduce it. If we don't enter it, of course we don't have to communicate about it. So you make things less complicated for the people and for the Pension Federation and the funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u111	I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she can accommodate the Chamber a little more. In this Chamber there is a great resistance to the introduction of lifecycle. In the field, too, we have actually only heard criticism of the intention to introduce lifecycles or at least impose two lifecycles. Can we not agree that the investigation which the Secretary of State wishes is being carried out, but that we should refrain from lifecycles, unless, after a debate in connection with the investigation, we all find that we prefer it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u112	I think this is a nice hand-out from Mr Elzinga. However, I have to deal with the formal and state law of the AMvB. That AMvB is in his route now. That is why I find it pleasant that we do not get this until 1 January 2018. So I would like to use that research to see how we can deal with this further. I understand that Mr Elzinga is proposing to do it the other way around. That's what he's giving me. However, I would argue that we wait for the results of the investigation and then let the Chamber know very quickly how I intend to deal with it. And that can, of course, get a place in the sweeping law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u113	I find it a little strange. The AMvB is lower regulation on this bill, isn't it? The bill has not yet been presented and the AMvB seems to have. I missed that; maybe it's just me. We have not yet talked about the law, but it seems that we must now start from the fact that the delegated legislation resulting from this bill has already passed and is a fact that has been fulfilled. That's kind of the reverse world, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u114	No, he's with the Council of State, so it's not an accomplished fact. That's not what I said either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u115	So it can be changed, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u116	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u117	I have another supplementary question, which I asked this afternoon. The Pension Federation indicates that lifecycle investment for existing premium schemes leads to the disadvantage of participants for whom a uniform investment policy has been applied for years and for whom risk management in relation to the prudent person principle has been otherwise implemented. Of course, that's very important. You can get it out, so I don't want to say it's happening quietly, but why are we going to deteriorate existing arrangements by further implementing the prudent person principle through lifecycle, a principle that is very controversial in the Senate? Do you really have to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u118	It is not for nothing that I am meeting the Chamber on this point. So I want to understand her in the investigation. I think this is an answer to the honourable Member, Mr Van Rooijen. I will continue with Mrs Oomen's questions, who asked why this bill does not amend Article 128 of the Pension Act, i.e. the regulation of the cost-covering premium. The cost-covering premium is a requirement for the performance of a benefit agreement. This bill deals with the legal framework for premium agreements. The scheme in question therefore has no meaning in this respect. In the case of a contribution agreement, the premium is based on an agreement between the employer and the employee. The contributions deposited and the return recorded therein result in the pension capital on the basis of which the pension is determined. Mrs Oomen, like Mr Van Rooijen, asked why a pension fund can only pay a variable net pension with an employer's contribution of 10%. Pension funds have the possibility to offer their members individual pension products in addition to their basic pension scheme. The net pension for people with incomes above a tonne is an example of this. Funds enter the insurance market with these products for individual old-age benefits. Since funds have a mandatory membership pool and therefore a competitive advantage, their individual pension products must contain sufficient characteristics of solidarity and collectivity. Since compulsory purchasing in the basic pension scheme is not possible in the case of a variable pension, the requirement for an employer's contribution of at least 10% remains. Removing this requirement would mean that pension funds could enter the market for variable pensions without further conditions. This is a fundamental step, which requires a separate careful consideration in the context of the job definition between funds and insurers. I think we should take this into account in the discussion on the system. Mrs Oomen raised the issue of the state of play of the VAT obligation for defined benefit funds. The Advocate General has indeed delivered his Opinion. The Supreme Court has been given the opportunity to state that the action is well founded. The Advocate General considers that an exemption should apply. It is now up to the Supreme Court to rule. That is what we are waiting for. I think I have answered Mrs Oomen's questions. I now turn to Mr Postema's supplementary question when the option of the regular fixed increase is added again. This will be done under the Collective Pension Act. The proposal will be presented this autumn. The option of periodic increases will then be included in the additions. Mrs Lodders has already addressed a question by Mr Lintmeijer on the evaluation clause. I have said, also for the Acts, that I think it is a good idea to include the parts that Mr Lintmeijer would like to find in them. Mr. Lintmeijer asked how participants are taken on board when making a choice between a fixed pension and a variable pension, and the possible income consequences thereof. In the debate on the communication of just now, many important things have been said about this. For the sake of clarity, I agree. Mr Lintmeijer asked whether it would be possible to change the provider once during the benefit period, and what its consequences would be. In general, the opening up of long-term agreements is highly undesirable. This also applies to pensions already in force. The accumulated capital was used for lifelong benefit during the benefit phase. The participant must be able to trust that the insurer can fulfil his guarantees in good and bad times. Only for those people who were in the special situation between January 2014 and July 2015 that they could not make use of the pension cut will insurers make an exception, as I believe I have also informed the Chamber. I now turn to the questions put by Mr Van de Ven of the VVD Group. He has asked me to investigate other countries, because it may be there that the pension, in his words, breathes with the returns of companies. In the context of the future discussion, I would like to zoom in on this and see what alternative contracts it might bring. It is, of course, not appropriate at the moment. Mr Van de Ven has zoomed in on the mix between shares and bonds. This is particularly important with regard to the current funds. At current interest rates, this is also the point of attention. So I would very much like to take this question with me in the future debate. I now turn to the questions put by Mr Rinnooy Kan from the D66 Group. I have already answered some of his questions, as have Mrs Lodders. Mr Rinnooy Kan has zoomed in on the three scenarios. For the Acts it might be good to say the following. For structural situations, the scenarios are derived from the uniform calculation methodology in accordance with the Pension Communication Act, which has also been discussed here. This is done on the basis of 2,000 scenarios identified by the Dutch Bank. Those scenarios shall be selected on the basis of the mismatches laid down in that law, which reflect the probability of the occurrence of those scenarios. The scenarios model interest rates, inflation and equity returns. Part of it takes into account very low interest rates. Based on the scenarios, these three situations are colored.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u119	I thank the Secretary of State; that is enlightening. Can it also say what is the precise translation of optimistic and pessimistic, respectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u120	I'm working with the Pension Register Foundation to further colour things up. It is responsible for this method of calculation. I imagine that very soon I will be able to update or rewrite this Chamber and the House of Representatives. In any case, these scenarios are now being used. Mr Rinnooy asked for the transitional period. The transitional right provided for in Article 55 shall apply to all operators implementing the established benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u121	I understand that this transitional period would only apply to operators who offer the "fixed" option but not to those who offer the "variable" option. My question is, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u122	It is true that it is a question of flat-rate benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u123	Those who offer a variable product also have transition problems that do not lie about it. My question is therefore why they are not granted that two-year period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u124	I shall come back to that in the second term, because I think this is a valid question. Furthermore, Mr Rinnooy Kan has asked if I am prepared to allow a depressed annuity, i.e. some kind of deferred annuity. The legislative proposal does not alter the existing principles that the pension should be lifelong and that the full capital should be used on a retirement date for a pension. Much is already possible within the principles. In any event, it is possible to use part of the capital on the pension date for a fixed pension starting at a later date than the pension date. In this case, the remaining capital may be used for a variable pension on pension date. In fact, this possibility is already under discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u125	I do not think that is the case. I'm really referring to something else. I am referring to the possibility of allocating the remaining capital in advance from a certain age for a full flat-rate benefit. That's different from a combination of fixed and variable up to the length of days. I am aware that the Pension Act does not make this possible now, but I think it is a very desirable product option in the context of a variable pension. I ask the Secretary of State if she would be prepared to make that product possible through a legislative amendment that would be necessary for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u126	I propose that I send a letter to both Chambers on this, because I think this is an interesting option that I sometimes want to explore. Then we can see on the basis of that letter if we're actually going to change the law. Mr Van Rooijen asked whether the government would like to leave the projection interest to the exporter. It shouldn't be surprising that the government doesn't think that's such a good idea. If the pension provider were to determine the projection rate itself, the starting point of a level playing field would be abandoned. This may provide an incentive to maximise projection interest rates. This would result in a higher pension on a retirement date, but at the expense of retirement at an older age, which the government considers undesirable. Mr Van Rooijen also asked whether the projection interest rate at AMvB could be arranged. Projection interest is one of the most important guarantees for a stable pension. It is undesirable to regulate such core principles at a lower level than the law. Shopping law has already been adequately addressed. I've noticed that 50PLUS is less enthusiastic about that. Mr Van Rooijen said that there was no review of implementation and communication aspects. In the run-up to this legislative proposal, we have, of course, listened to practitioners, supervisors and other stakeholders. The Netherlands Bank and the AFM both submitted the cabinet bill to a supervisory test. The implementation and communication aspects were also taken into account. In close consultation, therefore, provisions have been included on communication at the different moments of choice during the construction and benefit phase. Mr Van Rooijen and others have asked for Netspar, in addition to the report on projection interest rates, to investigate the extent of the ex ante redistribution. Mr Van Rooijen has rightly said that there are certain variants of projection interest rates that result in an undesirable ex ante redistribution. This is also clearly explained in the Netspar report. It is important to note that the variant that makes the bill possible and which is based on the risk-free projection rate, excludes this undesirable ex ante redistribution at all times. Netspar is currently engaged in more extensive and technical research. I am prepared to ask Netspar to take Mr Van Rooijen's question on the extent of ex ante redistribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u127	I am talking about a further variant of the time limit for risk-free interest rates and also about the aspect of volatility, because that interest rate is not stable. This interest rate has been falling ever further in recent times and, as Mr Van de Ven said, even towards zero. In addition, I call the real interest rate as a variant. In the SER report, real interest rates are also important in all comparisons, particularly in variant four. If a comprehensive study is to be carried out, we ask that this be completed with the aspect of the volatility of risk-free interest rates and the aspect of real interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u128	I'm not ready to poke for that. My commitment is to include the ex ante redistribution in the investigation. However, I do not feel that the other two aspects mentioned by Mr Van Rooijen should be included in this research. In the context of what the ESC presented last Friday, we are looking at the future debate, which includes these issues. However, I do not want to zoom in on this in the Netspar study.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u129	Our point is that this risk-free interest rate is not fixed. It's moving very, very much. That is also the big problem with the ftk, which is that this interest rate would become stable, but it has proved to be highly unstable and that this falling interest rate will even cause us to fall into discounts. If you look at the risk-free interest rate, we think you should include it as a variant too, the fact that that interest rate is not stable and that it can go back and forth and now, above all, it is falling. This volatility has a huge impact on the instrument of risk-free interest rates. That's not a given, it's a very moving and dangerous animal. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u130	But that is precisely the point of particular attention, in the sense that volatility is part of risk-free interest rates. It's a bit of a chicken egg discussion. I don't feel like taking advantage of the Netspar research for this. I made a commitment on one point, but on the other I do not. Mr Kok of the PVV spoke about the state of the pension system today, but also asked for a response to the ESC opinion. I intend to give an appreciation on behalf of the cabinet for the summer of this ESC opinion. I have already promised this to the House of Representatives. Finally, I come to Mr Elzinga's question, but Mr Van Rooijen has just asked the same question. I've already answered that. I hope that I have answered the questions of the senators sufficiently. If I've missed anything, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u131	I have two more questions of a somewhat technical nature. I imagine the pause could still be useful for that. I asked Mrs Lodder about these individual schemes versus the individual long-term risk of life. I am not quite convinced by the answer, because I heard the Secretary of State then say that the starting point of our pensions is that they must be lifelong. I have read in the explanatory memorandum to the initial legislative proposal that the longevity risk continues to apply to the pension executive, as in the current law. I would like to have a further answer to that in the second term. I have also asked Mrs Lodders, in the context of the variable variant, to limit the decline. She indicated that that limitation was secured and Maximised in the law. However, I did not find that convincing. Perhaps Mrs Lodders will be able to make a good reference to that. Article 75a on the variable benefit passage states: "This periodic fixed reduction shall not exceed the difference between the maximum projection rate referred to in paragraph 8 and the risk-free interest rate." If you read that correctly, also in the light of the amendment, we are talking about exactly the same interest rate. Then you couldn't actually have a drop at all. I would also like a further answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u132	Do you expect that answer in the second term, or now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u133	I'd like to leave that to the performer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u134	With exactly the same motivation as the previous speaker, I note that I have not yet received an answer to two questions either. That answer may be given now, or later. The first question, not just asked by me, was the following. I'll say it in my own words. Is it conceivable that the implementation of this bill will create a financial disadvantage for a pensioner who in fact wishes to remain in the old system? In other words, he's always had "fast," he's holding on, he's coming to a pension administrator who's gonna use Mrs. Lodder's options, but at least that's gonna create costs. Do they end up with him or her, or can he or she otherwise suffer from this transition? GroenLinks has also drawn attention to this. I put that question on behalf of the two groups. I also asked the Secretary of State if she was prepared to investigate the feasibility of a variable follow-up to benefit agreements in the future. She has not yet responded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u135	Do Mrs Lodders and the Secretary of State now wish to reply, or do they do so in the second term? I note that the answers are given in second time. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting until 7:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u136	We need the second term of office. I call Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u137	Mr. Chairman. I thank the author of the bill and the Secretary of State for the answers given. It was fast, very fast. I have noticed that a lot of things that this Chamber has problems with are being pushed through. Before we adopt a law, I would prefer the wishes of the Chamber to be achieved first, so that the law can then be voted on in the correct form. That is a preliminary remark. First a general point, that of VAT. The Secretary of State referred to a decision of the Supreme Court. I find that too easy, because it was a political decision to charge VAT for DB schemes, but not for DC schemes. I told the Secretary of State that, by referring to any ruling of the Supreme Court, they would withdraw 100 million from the DB funds. The Secretary of State has promised this Chamber that it would do something about that problem. I believe that politics should decide on this. I'd like an answer to that. We have talked about the life cycles and their consequences. A life cycle is an individual matter. Any person who retires must be informed of what is the best solution for him or her. However, the Secretary of State wishes to record this in the AMvB. Then there will be an investigation, and if the Chamber is right, then that matter will come out. I don't think that's a good solution. I think we should now decide that we want it to be different. The Secretary of State's explanation of what has so far been customary, the prudent person principle, does not reflect the way funds and insurers have done it so far. The Secretary of State is now going to make further demands, but I have asked in the event of interruption whether anything has not gone well so far, which means that further demands need to be made. I do not agree with the fact that we are adopting a law with an AMvB which contains principles which may be changed once the investigation has been completed. Another point is to pass on the cost of lifecycles. This point was also made across the street. Personal advice should be sought for this purpose. Article 14e (1) states that the financial position of the participant must be investigated. Do I understand why the government is proposing that if, after that investigation, it appears that the lifecycles should not be applied, all other articles referring to lifecycles will be deleted? I would like an answer to this question. Mrs Lodders or the Secretary of State has said that the costs for all the extra hassle we get with this law will indeed be passed on and that it is up to the executive to determine who they are passed on to. This could mean that if I opt for a fixed pension, I will contribute to the cost of calculating the lifecycle for both fixed and variable. That is not the transparency I, nor my colleague Omtzigt on the other side, would want. I'd like a reaction to that. Then there is Article 120 on the job definition. I do not understand the statement by the Secretary of State that there should be no competition between net pension payments and variable payments from funds with insurers. I really don't understand that. The Secretary of State also knows that pension funds did not enter that market until tax on the 100 000 was capped. Why then, because of the competitive position with insurance companies, should we not now be allowed to go there? We could turn it around. Why does the Secretary of State place insurers in a more advantageous position than pension funds? I think communication is a weak point. The Secretary of State merely refers to the Pension Communication Act which lays down a number of requirements, but I think that much more specific matters need to be addressed here. I think I should stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u138	Mrs Oomen, you've been over your time for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u139	Yes. I didn't think so. I saw one minute 32 here and he's getting up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u140	With me, it's all red.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u141	I hope the other colleagues will pick it up, otherwise I will tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u142	Mr. Chairman. I thanked the initiator in the first place. That was sincere, because I think it is really good that we should take the step for this type of pension contract to enable investment after the retirement date. People want this and it brings added value. I think everyone agrees on that, including in this Chamber. I note that on a number of important points, mentioned here by myself and my fellow Members, there have simply been some genuine commitments. We have been told that the possibility of rising rather than falling variable pensions will come into play. We have been given a commitment on net pensions and excess pensions. We have also received clear commitments on a number of investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u143	Does anything change the arrangement by changing the name?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u144	What do you say, Mrs. Oomen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u145	Is there any change in the scheme due to the other naming that has now been given to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u146	I don't know. It doesn't seem as interesting to me either. I have heard the undertaking on the point made by my group that an increasing variable pension should also be possible. I have also been promised that lower regulation will make it possible to grant the possibility of variable pensions to net pensions. In that sense, I believe that these are important commitments. They weren't the only ones. We can have the debate on lifecycle very sharply. We must also do so, but there is no pension executive in the Netherlands who does not work with lifecycle approaches on a daily basis. Probably the resistance that this is now regulated by law lies with the colleagues. I understand that movement, because you have built in a far-reaching degree of freedom here, which is the essence of the law, and then looks at whether in that last phase of retirement to mortality there is also the approach to lifecycle, as is normally the case from the moment of first employment to retirement. I wouldn't like to give the impression, I don't think anyone in this house is arguing that a lifecycle approach, for any pension fund, is not very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u147	I think there's been a big misunderstanding. A pension fund looks at the circle of stakeholders. A certain risk approach, which applies to the whole group and not to the individual, is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u148	That's absolutely true. However, we are also talking here about cases of individual regulations. I therefore urge that not from the paradigm of the defined benefit and the 7 million participants that we reason with each other there, the target group is very important to apply that paradigm one-on-one to this target group of 1 million participants who are in a very different type of arrangement. This is by the way a type of scheme that is not necessarily the favourite of the PvdA, let me be clear about that, but I indicated in the first period that it is a fact that we also have that type of scheme in the Netherlands. It is our idea to allow these people to take full advantage of the opportunities to invest, invest and collect returns even after retirement. I understand, then, that I have even advocated that you, as a legislator, have to deal with this carefully and that you have to lay down rules for it, even more so, I have been looking for it. Those were also the two technical questions that I asked once again when the first deadline was completed. What about the delineation of downside risks? Is there any chance that you'll overdo it in the early years of your retirement so there's nothing left? The second question concerns the individual longevity risk of individual schemes. Finally, a lot has been said about the prudent person rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u149	There must be no misunderstanding about what's bothering us. What bothers me, and I thought others, is exactly what Mr Postema is ambiguously referring to. In my opinion, the principle of lifecycle is a very narrow interpretation of the open standard of the prudent person principle. We therefore call for more room to be created in individual customisation, which is possible in many pension cases, than is provided by this narrow interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u150	I don't feel I'm being called "That shouldn't be the intention to stand here as a defender of the lifecycle principle in the law." What I point out is that the use of the lifecycle principle is daily business of every pension fund in the Netherlands, even when it comes to individual schemes. A second point is that the prudent person principle, Article 135 PW, is based on European laws and regulations. There has also been an obligation for the Netherlands to do so. We have given more substance to this in legislation. An important limitation of this open standard of prudent person has already been achieved by the financial review framework that we adopted here a few years ago. There's more like that. This open standard is therefore further embedded by adjacent legislation. That is how I understood the lifecycle initiative. Again, I am not defending that initiative, I am merely interpreting it. I hear that the initiator and the cabinet, heard by this Chamber, are prepared to look at this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u151	The open standard of prudent person, whereby each fund looks at how to deal with the circle of insured persons, is something other than the lifecycle, which is an individual approach of each individual participating in a pension fund. That's why I don't understand. Each pension fund really doesn't do what you say, and the same goes for every insurer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u152	It is good to have said that, Mrs Oomen. I will share with her the knowledge I have at my disposal. If you are dealing with an almost or completely closed fund, it is only possible that the pension administrator, including in DB schemes, applies the lifecycle approach to it. That's just an end-of-the-world fund. Then you're talking about the collectivity of insured people, which also applies to smaller groups of participants who are ageing. Also when it comes to multiple pension participants at the same time, a lifecycle approach is applied to it, because you are in a situation where your obligations are joined. As has just been said, at the moment you are dealing with an individual scheme, you are also dealing with a sealing towards retirement age. The present initiative proposal then opens a new door, namely that it does not have to end on the date of retirement. You have a delayed investment horizon. Then I think it makes sense that you then take a closer look at your lifecycle approach. I would like to leave it to the initiator and the cabinet. I would just like to point out that I am less surprised by this discussion than Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u153	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the initiator and the Secretary of State for the answers. I am particularly pleased with the commitments regarding evaluation and the generosity with which it has been looked at. This applies in particular to the default option. It's good to see how it's gonna work out in practice. The same applies to the actual behaviour of potential participants, as Mr Rinnooy Kan pointed out. People do not always act only on the basis of objective figures, standards, facts and rationalities, but there is also a piece of psychology of decision-making behind it. It would be good to see that in the evaluation. But before there's an evaluation, there's got to be a law first. That is what we are talking about today. My group would like to raise a few points. We already had a brief debate on the underlying parameters of the three scenarios that the Secretary of State wants outlined. I am glad that at least there are thoughts about that. I understand that these parameters to be used will not be static, but will be adapted from time to time to the reality as it occurs outside. I would like to see a sharper stroke of how we actually come up with manageable and transparent scenarios for performers and participants out of the 2,000 variants that DNB brings together. In general, my group is not very much in favour of much regulation of implementation in underlying legislation. We do like you to regulate what you want to do in the law, because that gives you the most legal certainty. On the other hand, I can imagine that, partly as a result of the evaluation, it could be an advantage in this case to have a little more flexibility in implementation when the evaluations show that the behaviour is moving in a different direction than we had predicted or that transparency and clarity seem less than we had hoped. In this sense, we can live with the fact that we are also introducing the flexibility per AMvB in order to tighten up where necessary. My concern with regard to the costs that participants will be charged, Mrs Oomen has also pointed out that this has not yet been completely eliminated. I understand that it's complicated to move into running execution paths, because then you get a lot of fuss about where the capital is and who's going to manage it. In that sense, I am very pleased with the possibility of considering with retroactive effect until 1 January 2014 whether another movement can be made. But my real concern is that my group does not want participants, once they are in an arrangement, to end up in some kind of cost trap where they will never come out again. This requires transparency on the one hand, but on the other hand it also requires multiannual agreements on the cost structure of the pension fund. There should be no surprises in that. If it is a no escape, it should not lead to a licence from the performers to meet their costs or link them to unbalanced amounts. I'll wait for the final answers. Then I would like to take this bill to my group, where for us the starting point is that we break the coincidence of low interest rates when you retire. That's not gonna get you anything. If this bill can prevent that, we will make it weigh heavily in the final balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u154	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the VVD Group, I would like to thank the initiator, Mrs Lodders, and also the Secretary of State, for the substantive discussion that took place this afternoon, which also led to a deepening of positions and, I hope, new insights. My group's understanding is that it is a fine bill, because it offers more flexibility in terms of the possibility of investing from the retirement date, in order to improve the pension for the citizen. I would also, of course, like to thank the Secretary of State for her commitment to include in future pension discussions my group's question about letting the level of retirement take part in business returns. I'm gonna put that wide down and I'm gonna want to see what the outcome is. But if we are to turn to zero return on bonds, I think it is better to forget about them. There are two points I heard from behind the table. Firstly, the distribution period for shock relief will be extended from five to ten years. I think that's a good gesture. Secondly, there is the lifecycle. The Secretary of State has undertaken to investigate that point further, as the starting date is 1 January 2017. But perhaps the forthcoming opinion of the Council of State on the draft law on improved premium schemes for the State Secretary will lead to the end of the lifecycle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u155	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the applicant, Mrs Lodders, and the Secretary of State, Mrs Klijnsma, for the answers and for the discussion. I very much appreciate the way that can be done in this Chamber. The letter to which I referred on 20 May from KNVG and NVOG did indeed mention the point I mentioned this afternoon: possibly not to lay down the projection rate in the law. If you set that interest rate in the law, you should let the board of pension funds decide. To this I add the variant myself to arrange it, if possible, at AMvB. After all, if you lay it down in the law, it will be unmoved for years. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State and, if necessary, the applicant's reply to the statement by the Labour Foundation and the Pension Federation that risk-free interest does not fit in with a contribution agreement. I quoted that one. Another question I had and which has not yet been answered concerns the remark in the documents that, according to the applicant and the Secretary of State, the structure of interest rates was ultimately a political choice in the debate with the House of Representatives. I do not know what a political choice is on a rather technical subject such as this, where we want to safeguard the interests of the participants for better benefits, but I do not think it is right to choose a path which actually leads to a bad start, although it is a bit artificial with that falling benefit, which, incidentally, has a different name since today. I have some understanding for that, because I couldn't explain to people who asked me what a falling benefit was either. It was expected that there would be an increase in benefits. Some people's questions are so simple that they also need to be answered. I come to the point of falling benefits with a different name. Can the Secretary of State or the applicant guarantee what I asked for, namely that there will be an enforceable and comprehensible system, which is also communicatable and which can also be better communicated by means of information, in the case of the interest rate chosen and the falling benefit associated with it? For us, this is actually one of the weakest points in this proposal, which it has not been tested on, as I said before. Actually, it should. Others, but in particular I have noted that risk-free interest rates are volatile, so they are not stable. The idea that we have a stable system with the ftk and the rts has been lied to by developments that none of us have been able to foresee, namely that interest rates are now going very fast towards 0%. In the two months since treatment in the Lower House, the premium on the risk-free interest rate required to obtain a benefit at the start was equal to the expected return, if we had it, from 1.7% to 2%. That's a maximized storage, so a storage with a third of the expected return above the risk-free interest rate. You can only count the higher return for a third. In two months' time, this expected return went from 5.1 % to 6 %. And you'll only see that for a third. Very briefly I notice something about the lifecycle. We still want it to be an open standard. So we do not want the prudent person principle to be included in the lifecycle. The Netherlands Bank has said that it is an open standard. That weighs very heavy for us. If we believe that this principle should be established or, in the eyes of the proposers, we actually believe, like DNB, that the lifecycle should be laid down in the law. We're not for that. We welcome the undertaking by the applicant and the Secretary of State to take the spread of shocks from five to ten years. It is striking that both have done so; this makes it extra clear. That is why we have asked. It has been promised that this will be done by the sweeping law. When's that? The sooner this commitment, which we particularly appreciate, is implemented, the better it is. I agree with Mr Lintmeijer on the positive commitment of the executive and the applicant to involve the default in the evaluation. Now the default is that you get a flat-rate benefit if you don't choose. We need to evaluate whether that's the best default. I'll come to the motion, but I'll deal with the Netspar investigation first. We welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that the investigation will at least examine the extent of the ex ante redistribution, which is as much as axiom and hinge in this proposal. We maintain our request to include the simulation of the project interest rate, the risk-free interest rate. That is an important element. We also ask that the interest rate term structure including volatility be included in the comparison tables. The ESC does so, but on the basis of that volatility. We await the answer of the Secretary of State in the second term. Finally. This afternoon, we discussed in detail the updating of the job demarcation arrangements in relation to the possible adaptation of Article 120 of the Pension Act. Along with Mrs Oomen, I have a motion on this. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Oomen-Ruijten tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the aim of the Improved Premium Scheme Act is to offer all members of premium agreements a choice between a fixed or variable benefit;]] [[Considering that the choice of a variable benefit under a voluntary contribution agreement of a pension fund can only be made by the government if there is a 10% employer's contribution;]] [[noting that in practice it is not possible for occupational pension funds to apply for a 10% employer's contribution and therefore the option of variable benefit cannot be offered to participants;]] [[noting that the government has not so far chosen to amend the job definition arrangements in Article 120 of the Pension Act;]] [[noting that the job definition provisions in Article 120 of the Pension Act have been drawn up at a time when net pension schemes and variable benefits have not yet been established;]] [[Whereas the extension or shift of the job definition is undesirable;]] [[Whereas updating is desirable so that all members of voluntary pension schemes in pension funds are also given a choice between fixed and variable pension benefits;]] [[calls on the Government to realise, before 1 January 2017, that all pension funds can also offer their members a variable benefit in the case of voluntary pension schemes and does not impede the requirement for an employer's contribution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34255-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u156	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two ladies and, in particular, the initiator for their reply. They have clarified a number of issues. There have also been some handouts and commitments made. I would say that I pay tribute to that. What remains is that the procedural treatment here deserves no beauty prize. The drafting of the combined legislative proposal lacks balance, even due to the abruptly adopted amendments and motions in the House of Representatives. There is also a lack of an adapted explanatory statement and a revised opinion from the Council of State. This discussion shows that there have been doubts on issues. In the definition of the product variable pension much remains open. I would like to draw particular attention to the still vague communication and the demand for balance. An example test was already unconvincing. Versions such as the declining benefits were also reappointed on the spot. Application of the prudent person principle and strict lifecycle investment needs to be further investigated, even if they are already included in the law or the AMVB. As has already been said, the order chosen is not very convincing. The same applies to the projection rate chosen, that of risk-free interest rates, which also appears to be highly volatile. That's no surprise in itself. Much still needs to be laid down in lower regulations and offered to the Chamber. At least that's what I'm assuming. As far as communication of clear scenarios is concerned, there is still a step to be taken through unambiguous parameters and further concreteisation. The clarity of real choice is still rather limited, as is the cost and distribution of it associated with an intensive and personal communication path, which is tailored to those who should choose. The question is, in fact, whether this is a decision-making process and cannot be better followed, especially given the lack of regulation and further studies that still need to be made in several areas. My group is still keen on the question of whether this bill can be supported. The next week will have to prove this. What is crucial is whether this bill offers real added value and not just a paper solution. Isn't it just "promise, but no deliverer"? Finally, the relationship to the transition to any new system, regardless of what it may look like, and a possible advance will play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u157	Mr. Chairman. I shall, of course, begin by expressing my thanks to the team for the contribution to the discussion we have had here, which I found interesting and broad in substance. It is well known that D66 also has a great deal of sympathy for the ambition of the present proposal: to create an investment option for a large group of nearly retired people. At the same time, we had fundamental concerns about the functioning of the market, which is to be achieved through this proposal. Those concerns aren't all gone. The market must enable the near-retirement to function properly as market players, which means first of all that they must be well informed about what is to be done and offered on the market. Secondly, they must be able to value the products offered. This leads us to the whole discussion we have had on information and communication. I have little to add to the concerns that have been expressed earlier. I have tried to put it into words myself. In any case, I am pleased to understand that there will be a follow-up in which, to the best of my knowledge, we will benefit from what expertise is available on how best to do so. That's a very essential ingredient. In order for the market to function properly, it also requires those interested to be faced with an appropriate choice of product. There are concerns about this too. The lifecycle has been remembered so many times, I can only be very brief about it. We think it is extremely desirable that this follow-up study should be carried out, in the hope that it will bring about the expansion which so many parties want to see in relation to the image that we now have. It is clear that the law of shopping is dear to us in a somewhat more limitless form than is currently offered. I have tabled a motion on this subject, which I now address to the President. The President shall: Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Prast, Mr Backer, Mr Van de Ven and Mr Lintmeijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Lodders Act's own initiative proposal provides for an improved contribution scheme with a limited interpretation of the shopping right at the start of the pension for members with a contribution or capital agreement with a pension fund;]] [[Whereas this leaves limited scope for the desired development of a wide range of products available;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare, in the event of acceptance of the initiative proposal, a proposal to grant unlimited shopping rights to beneficiaries who opt for a variable follow-up to their retirement date at that time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34255-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u158	Mr. Chairman. In the same context, that of the appropriate product range, the following further. I have indicated that there is a category of products which I consider highly desirable and which, according to my information, are not possible within the legislative proposal, namely the 'deferred annuities' in good Dutch, the deferred annuities, which make it possible to agree at the pension entrance that from a certain age a certain capital is already being committed for a fixed benefit up to the end of the life of the person concerned. I would like to clarify whether or not this is possible within the current system. If not, its introduction would seem very welcome and sensible to me. The cost impact of this new legislation has been informed from several quarters, in particular as to whether those who do not aim to change compared to their current plans may still experience cost consequences from the introduction of these new methodologies. I would like an answer to that. I would like something to be said, if possible, about the time of introduction of the law of sweeping, which has already been promised to us on a number of occasions. With all due respect for the good intentions, we are not entirely reassured. We must think again in our own circle over the next few days and allow this discussion to take place. We'll definitely do that. We will prepare ourselves appropriately and well for next week's vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u159	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiator and the Secretary of State for the first-term response. I have an unanswered question which I consider important and which I will return to at the end of my second term. I have noted the commitment that a change through a sweeping law will make it possible to spread shocks over ten years instead of five years, which will allow a more stable pension. I'm sure I'll see that as a profit. For that, I would like to thank the initiator and the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State undertook to be prepared to conduct an independent investigation on the basis of which the added value of the lifecycle will be reconsidered. But what are the criteria for this? Whether we, as the Senate, share the view on added value with the Secretary of State, is the question. The investigation opens up again, but I would prefer to see the widely shared criticism from this Chamber translated into the removal of the obligation to lifecycles. That would certainly reassure me more, also for the field, which has addressed us in this way. I already indicated in the first term that I feel that, among other things, this debate on lifecycle investment has considerably cooled the enthusiasm in the field. Another point that has crept in during the journey is the choice of the currently very low risk-free interest rate as projection rate. This should also be seen as an unnecessary restriction on the level of risk sharing, since intergenerational risk sharing is explicitly excluded by the State Secretary. At least, this argument is always put forward in order to choose nothing else from the projection interest rate rather than the forward rate structure. This also weighs heavily on my group. I would remind the Secretary of State of the Ultimate Forward Rate considered too low when dealing with the new financial review framework in this Chamber. That was an important point of discussion. This Chamber, in my assessment for a considerable part, clearly sees this as different from the Secretary of State. The sympathetic aim of the bill is a better pension for pension savers with a contribution scheme. There is a large group of people who would now receive a much lower benefit than expected when purchasing a fixed defined contribution benefit. There was, among other things, a wish for this scheme from company pension funds, but I come back to my unanswered question from the first term: many of the pensioners and participants for whom this bill is primarily intended are indirectly affiliated to the KNVG and/or the NVOG. That is why they have advocated this proposal with enthusiasm and urgency. But due to the discussion in the Lower House and the written preparation in the Senate, there has been a further internal discussion. This obviously led us to receive a letter from these large domes on 10 May which concluded: "(...) that this bill in its present form contains so many shortcomings and uncertainties that its implementation will create insurmountable problems. We therefore believe that this proposal of law should not be made law." I would like to receive a response and an appreciation from both the initiator and the Secretary of State, because I find it remarkable at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u160	I would ask Mrs Lodders, the initiator, and Secretary of State Klijnsma if they can answer directly or if they would like to consult. One minute they say, that seems very quick. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u161	Madam President. I shall begin by thanking Members for the supplementary questions they have put. For the sake of time, I will immediately answer the questions, whereby the initiator and the Secretary of State apply the same distribution as in the first term. A number of members of the Chamber have asked questions about passing on the costs. There was also a question from the first term about the costs of Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mrs Oomen. It was asked whether it is certain that a participant who prefers a fixed pension will never have a financial disadvantage if his provider opts for a simultaneous availability of a variable alternative. Are the costs of that alternative never borne by the participant concerned? The bill does not contain any specific rules for this. Current pensions cannot be adjusted by the costs associated with the introduction of this bill. There can therefore be no financial disadvantage for pensioners. For people who are still retiring, it could have consequences if the pension administrator adjusts his purchasing rates because of the higher costs. Furthermore, the Financial Supervision Act for insurers and PPIs provides that complete agreements are made with all customers on the costs. This is against cross-subsidies between the different products. Finally, I would like to point out that, as of 1 July 2016, a scheme will enter into force which requires pension administrators to be transparent about the implementation costs. Mrs Oomen and a number of other Members have asked questions about communication. They asked what exactly has been arranged. I think we have exchanged a number of things with each other in the first term. It is not only the Pension Communication Act to which reference is made, but also a number of additional cases are included in this bill. These are new provisions, as I pointed out in the first period: personal communication, balanced communication on the advantages and disadvantages, annual information of members and a very important role for supervisors to ensure that communication is carried out in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u162	I would like to give Mrs Lodder the benefit of the doubt, but I cannot, because the Pension Communication Act already regulates everything she has just mentioned. Then what's extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u163	A number of additional cases have been incorporated into this law. I have just mentioned a number of examples. I think we also communicated about it in the first period and shared the information. The Pension Communication Act has entered into force, but there are several partial elements that still have to be implemented under the Pension Communication Act. Mr. Postema of the Labour Party mentioned the rising variable benefit and said that it could be incorporated into the Sweep Act. I can confirm that this was promised in the first term. Mr Postema also had two outstanding questions from the first term. The first question is how the fixed decrease is maximized. The AMvB Article 17a provides that the fixed decline cannot exceed the degree of consistency with the investment policy. Article 63a (3) of the Pension Act provides that the fixed decrease may not exceed 35% of the difference between the share return parameter and the risk-free interest rate. The accepted amendment in the House of Representatives has made it the third member. I hope I have made that clear. Mr Postema's other question was whether it is possible for the participant with a variable pension to bear the longevity risk in individual contracts. The micro-long life risk is, by definition, collectively shared between the participants. The pension does not fall if, for example, an individual participant becomes 92 years old. The pensioner therefore always receives a life-long benefit. The macro-long-life risk can be assured by the operator, but it does not have to be. If it is not insured, it will pass into the risk of the amount of the variable benefit. I hope that I have answered the question sufficiently. Mr Lintmeijer, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, and Mr Van Rooijen, discussed the evaluation. In the first period, I indicated that I consider this to be very valuable elements, even before the evaluation. Mr Lintmeijer referred to this. The Secretary of State replied in the affirmative. Especially when we are talking about such a new product as a variable pension, I think it is very good to indicate in advance a number of elements that we are going to monitor. Mr Lintmeijer's other questions will be addressed by the Secretary of State. Mr Van de Ven also supported, on behalf of the VVD Group, the extension of the five-year period to ten years. As in the case of a number of other Members of Parliament, reference has been made to the law on sweeping. The Secretary of State stated in the first term that she would like to offer the law of sweeping this year to the House of Representatives, but the Secretary of State will confirm this later. Mr Van Rooijen, on behalf of the 50PLUS Group, asked a question about the long-term interest rate structure: what was the political choice? The political choice in the Lower House has been to opt for risk-free interest rates. In replying to the first term of this Chamber, I indicated why we opted for risk-free interest rates. That reason was in particular the difference between the individual and the collective variant. If two different projection rates were used, this would not serve the clarity of the participants. In my view, the nominally stable pension, as it is now called, covers the load better than the falling benefit................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Hence the risk-free interest rate and the political decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u164	Thank you for that explanation. I am still surprised that, following a premium agreement which contained the expected return through your own initiative proposal, the mere fact that the cabinet proposal included a collective arrangement with risk-free interest rates shows that there are two different rates of interest, that it is all the more important that they should be the same and that the adoption of an amendment makes the worst choice. At least: in our view that is the worst choice, because the lowest choice is made between risk-free interest rates, which are very low and can go towards zero or minus, and the expected return, which we hope will be substantially higher. That was also Mrs Lodder's objective in submitting her legislative proposal. In my view, that remains the key question in this proposal. The answer that this is a political choice brings me to the question of whether this political choice was a good one. You will hear more about this in the explanation of vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u165	In addition, two interest rates were included in the original initiative proposal. Eventually, an equal projection rate was chosen for the individual and the collective variant. Mr Van Rooijen says that, in the opinion of the 50PLUS Group, this is the worst choice. During the debate in the Lower House and certainly also by me as an initiator, the ex-ante redistribution effects were looked at. They weighed very heavily for me. I have already said something about the evaluation and the distribution. On the motion tabled by Mr Van Rooijen, the State Secretary will give an opinion. Mr Kok, on behalf of the PVV Group, has shown that there are still a large number of questions and considerations about the variable pension, on which his group will give its opinion. With the present initiative proposal, we have created a framework within which a variable pension can take place. We didn't take it to the letter, just to make innovative products possible. We very much agree that in the coming period, especially when the various pension administrators have finished their products, communication needs to be looked at in consultation with the sector and the regulators in order to shape them properly. On this point, I made a commitment in the first period. Mr Rinnooy Kan stressed on behalf of the D66 Group that it is important that people are well informed. We share that. That is why we are not here yet, as I have just said in the direction of Mr Kok. We must continue to fine-tune the test of communication contained in the written reply and ensure that people are properly informed, in accordance with what we have also laid down in the law, so that it is understandable to everyone and everyone can make the right choice. Mr Rinnooy Kan has tabled a motion on shop law. The Secretary of State will also give an opinion on this. He also asked a question about "Can I put it that way?" (b) the deferred annuity. This means: from a certain age a permanent benefit. This is possible in the legislative proposal, provided that the flat-rate benefit is clear at the start of the pension. If a participant indicates that he wishes to receive a variable benefit up to his 80th year and from his 80th year onwards a flat-rate benefit, the amount of the flat-rate benefit later on must be clear in order to comply with the Pension Act on the date of retirement. That is possible within the existing law. Mr Elzinga also spoke about the law on sweeping and the extension of the five-year period to ten years. This extension has been promised under the Sweep Act, which hopefully will be presented to the House of Representatives this year. Mr Elzinga also wants an explanation of the basis for the legislative proposal. In my contacts in the past period, both with the pension field and with different participants... people who are in the direction of their pension or who have just bought their pension............................................................................................................................................... The Pension Federation and the Association of Insurance Companies are very enthusiastic about the present proposal. Of course, some things are being further developed, including the information provisions, but there is certainly support for them. Yesterday I was strengthened in this when I was present at a general meeting of pensioners from a certain pension fund. This initiative proposal was also discussed there. It turned out that participants were looking forward to making that choice with a great deal of interest. That choice is the most important, because that is what we are doing: making an extra choice for those 1 million participants with a premium or capital agreement. I think I've come to the end of the answer. I hope I have answered the questions sufficiently. I would like to thank the Chamber very warmly for the constructive debate we have had on this initiative proposal. I look forward to the further development of this debate, hopefully after next week's votes. May I thank you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u166	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their contribution to the second term. I still have a number of questions and two motions for resolutions, which I will comment on. Mrs Oomen once again pointed out that the VAT exemption for DB funds was a matter of attention. Previous rulings by the judge pointed out that there is a reason to apply for VAT from DB funds. Now there's a case at the Supreme Court. The Minister of Finance, of course, follows this with great interest and sees no reason to change the policy at the moment, but it is, of course, very logical to wait for the verdict. It will also provide clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u167	May I ask a question about the VAT problem? This is a political choice, isn't it? After all, the government has imposed this policy. Does the Secretary of State agree? That is my first point. The second is what the Secretary of State will do if the Supreme Court says that the government is indeed wrong and the complainant is right. Is she going to withdraw the policy like the weed again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u168	The first question is whether there is a political choice. There is, of course, always a political point of view when it comes to the imposition of VAT. That does not alter the fact that we are now simply looking at the way the Supreme Court deals with this dossier in an orderly manner. The then question is, of course, as it is. We'll wait for the Supreme Court's ruling first. Then, of course, we will inform the First and Second Chamber of the way in which we wish to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u169	A political choice; that was a correct formulation. She's been used by me before in a different context. Of course, we all know and the Secretary of State that this decision has been taken. It was proposed by the Cabinet and approved by the Chamber. Let me put it simply: it was a vulgar austerity measure in the sense of austerity through a burden increase. It took $100 million to fill a hole. This is at the expense of the pension funds and the current participants, namely workers and pensioners. At that time, we did not know what dramas we would be dealing with and what would happen to pension funds and cover rates, given the interest rate after the VAT proposal a few years ago. Isn't that a reason for the cabinet to look again at the next budget to see if the 100 million cut in VAT should not be reversed? The Netherlands is the only one in Europe. This is completely separate from the Supreme Court, because it is not really about this at the end of the day. Politics has the last word on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u170	I understand this question very well. However, I have not answered for nothing just as I have replied. We, the cabinet and also the Minister of Finance, await the ruling of the Supreme Court. We will undoubtedly let the Chamber know how we deal with that statement. Of course, I did not conceal the fact that there is always some kind of political choice in this. Let me make this very clear. I come to a question from Mrs Oomen. The performer has already dealt with this. Mrs Oomen asked whether communication was merely a reference to the Pension Communication Act. No, Mr. Chairman. That's exactly what Mrs. Lodders said. On top of that good basis of the Pension Communication Act, the bill contains specific information obligations for pension practitioners. Participants should receive information on risks and consequences relevant to them, and an indication of the amount of the pension. This information shall be provided in good time. It is therefore necessary to provide clear, correct and balanced information. Standard models will be used to ensure comparability of information. I had already promised Mr Lintmeijer that I would provide further insight into the scenarios and the 2,000 variants of the Nederlandsche Bank. Mr Lintmeijer asked in his second term whether I would also like to look at, as he called it, 'feasible variants'. I would very much like to write a letter to the Chamber about that. I can color this in. I just think it's nice to go to the room. Then I get to the lifecycle, the life cycle. It is of course the pièce de résistance today. Lifecycle investment is already common practice. It is already on the agenda for premium agreements. Participants are at individual risk. In this case, it is in the interest of the individual participant to take back investment risk, especially in the case of a variable pension. Only pension funds that implement an additional scheme in the form of a premium agreement sometimes have a uniform investment policy. Lifecycle is an open standard and not a quantitative limit. That was one of Mrs Oomen's justified questions and other Members. Nevertheless, I think it is very important to enter lifecycle as such in the research that is coming to light. That is what I said in my first term. I would like to present the results of the research to the First and Second Chambers and then, of course, I will also proceed with the results. I'll get to the swipe law. Mr Van Rooijen asked exactly when it would come. I intend to present the bill to the House of Representatives this year, so that the law could enter into force in mid-2017. Mr Rinnooy Kan van D66 asked if I am prepared to investigate a variable pension under implementing agreements. This is an essential part of the future debate. Then a different type of contract is considered, which also depends on interest and return in a different way. We're definitely gonna involve this. Then there are the two points that have been tabled. The first motion is by Mr Rinnooy Kan c.s. It invites the government, if the initiative proposal is accepted, to prepare a proposal to grant unlimited shopping rights to pensioners who opt for a variable follow-up to their retirement date at that time. Look, I do expectant management, if you don't mind my saying so. If I may read the motion in such a way as to allow me to explore whether that one-off shopping right can be a possibility, I can leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber. If the proposers assume that we are going to introduce that law immediately and without delay, I cannot leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber. I also look at the author to see how I interpret this motion. An unlimited right to shop is at the expense of the possibility to spread coincidences and setbacks. You just need the broad collectivity to do that. So I think I can explore whether this one-off possibility can be considered, but I would like to point out the motion as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u171	I think that's important, too. That is not because I want that extensive shopping law. I would like to know before the vote what the Secretary of State thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u172	At the moment, of course, we have not designed the shop law for nothing as we have arranged it. I have listened carefully to Mr Rinnooy Kan in this case. He asks me whether I would like to explore whether this one-off shopping law could be one of the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u173	Mrs. Oomen, if you have something to say, please walk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u174	The motion calls for a proposal, or even for a proposal to be prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u175	I didn't say what I said for nothing. I am also, of course, looking to see if my interpretation will help the author. I should advise against the motion if I had to make a proposal immediately and without delay to enable this right to shop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u176	In our interaction on this subject, I have had the impression that the Secretary of State is concerned about the possible unforeseen consequences of the introduction of such a shopping right. So, with the wording, I offer room to explore these consequences. I consider that to be the preparation of a proposal. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to let us know what that's gonna do. If these consequences are to be seen in greater detail, then I should like to assume that the proposal itself can then be put on the table. So I'm offering room for this first phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u177	It is good practice between the government and in this case the First Chamber that we can investigate matters and that we should highlight the outcome of the inquiry in the Chamber. The same applies to lifecycle investment. That's what we do with an appreciation on our part. Then it is up to all of us to see how we proceed. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I can leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the other motion, on J, the government is asked to realize before 1 January 2017 that all pension funds can also offer their members a variable benefit in the case of voluntary pension schemes and that the requirement for an employer's contribution does not interfere. The employer's contribution to voluntary pension provision that pension funds offer is a job definition requirement. This requirement ensures that pension funds put sufficient solidarity and collectivity into their pension provision. This is necessary because pension funds can otherwise move freely on the insurance market while having a compulsory member base. That obligation is very important in this respect. The removal of this requirement is therefore anti-competitive. On that basis, I must advise against this motion. I see the petitioner of the motion, Mrs Oomen, coming forward. Oh, no, this was Mr Van Rooijen's motion. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u178	I'm a co-author of that. For these funds, this means that they are placed in a negative competition from insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u179	It means that we are looking very closely at how competition conditions are manifesting on the market. That's the most important consideration why I'm dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u180	I note that the previous motion, partly because of the clarification made by Mr Rinnooy Kan, left all the room to see what would come out of it after further investigation, while the Secretary of State went down the bend very briefly on this motion: it was not recommended. However, the motion states that due to new developments due to the fact that there is now a net pension, you could consider whether you should examine an actualization of the situation. My question is whether the Secretary of State can understand this motion in this way. Perhaps we should amend the motion for that; we can still consider that, as with the previous motion, it is in any case prepared to examine whether openings are possible here. The request is therefore to identify the benefit and disadvantage of it first. The question may then arise as to whether the Secretary of State will be able to deal with it or not, and whether she will then come to a position as she outlined Mr Rinnooy Kan in a negative scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u181	We have come to the end of our debate, at least almost, I think. But seriously, I think that the authors should look very closely at the text of the motion. Maybe the motion can be modified in the direction of "want to investigate"... Now I almost have to handle the pen myself. Look, it is quite clear here: the government is being asked to implement a number of things before 1 January. Of course, I'd advise against this. Well, "of course," I advise against this. I can imagine that we are being asked to take a very close look at the employers' contribution in particular, which is, of course, the pièce de résistance, but then the operative part of the motion should really change. Because here is what it says very solidly. So, the operative part that's on the table right now, I really shouldn't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u182	I think I should then discuss with Mrs Oomen whether and, if so, how we amend that motion. I think, Mr President, that this would mean that we might have to come back to that in a third period next week. In view of the importance of this motion, I must submit it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u183	For a third period, Mr Van Rooijen, the Chamber must give its consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u184	That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u185	I have come to the end of my speech with this commentary of both motions. Me, as well as the applicant, rest... Oh, sorry. I still see Mr Elzinga walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u186	In both the first and the second term, I had expressly asked the Secretary of State for an appreciation of and a response to the changed position of the Dutch Association of Pensioners' Organisations and the Koepel of Dutch Pensioners' Associations. These organisations stress that in their view this bill should not be made law, while they had given a great deal of support to the idea behind the bill. However, they do not want to support what has become of it. I attach great importance to a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u187	The producer has already dealt with this, but I will give her my response. I have now seen the views of both organisations. I note that from the field, as it is always called, there is also a great deal of support for the bill. I am referring here to the insurers, the Pension Federation and also the supervisors. I also note that both domes have reservations and that their conclusion is not entirely positive at the moment. Edoch, I also note, as she said, that in this debate we have taken a number of the issues they have mentioned into account. So I would not be surprised if the domes would look at it again in the second instance. At first they had informed us that they welcomed the bill and in second place they apparently had a closer understanding, but there can always be a third body. We all have to wait and see. I'm left to thank the Chamber for the input. I must say that it was a real pleasure to present this bill with the applicant here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u188	Thank you. But now Mrs Oomen has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u189	I would very much like to say to the Secretary of State and to Mrs Lodder: you have done your best to support it. But there are still a number of points on which we would like to think very carefully. In the written rounds we asked for example calculations. The answer is they're coming. We'd like to have those calculations. The Secretary of State wants to investigate the projection interest rate. The Secretary of State also wants to look at the lifecycles. We must then assess the consequences of this. I'll mention the communications and the extras there are. We also need to look at the target group of Article 120 of the Pension Act, which we mentioned in the motion. I do not think that we should go into the motion for a resolution with words in order for the government to approve that motion. A motion is just in favour of forcing the government to do something. In the practice of life here, but also that on the other side, that becomes something else, something with which we please the government. I do not think that is a good thing as a parliamentarians. So we still have to think very carefully about exactly how we want to shape that point of Article 120, but it is the intention that it should remain as it is. I have another point. In our view, the target group that will be able to benefit from a benefit is really the one of the high-paid. The Secretary of State does not find a major solution. All this is the reason why, as a member of the CDA Group, I am considering submitting to the CDA Group next week to ask the Chamber for a third term at any time, so not necessarily next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u190	Mrs Oomen, I have a question for you first, for the sake of clarity, before I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen. You claim that you are considering applying for a third term. If you decide to do so, it would take place next week. The Chamber must, however, give its consent for a third term. I would just like to make it clear that you are asking for it next week, at least you are considering asking, but if the Chamber does not give its consent, the vote will be taken on the legislative proposal and on the motion. I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u191	I assume that the Chamber will certainly give that consent if there are so many good reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u192	I don't think I'm going to go into that any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u193	On this point perhaps we need to say more clearly what needs to be said. We believe that a third deadline should be requested, otherwise we will all be in uncertainty for a long time. Mrs Oomen has already said that there are a number of questions. I have one more that I would like to repeat, partly at the request of Mrs Oomen. The letter from the Pension Federation of 1 April states that lifecycle investment for existing premium schemes leads to the disadvantage of participants for whom a uniform investment policy has been applied for years and for whom risk management in relation to the prudent person principle has been otherwise completed. Can the Secretary of State give examples of what the consequences would be if they were different, from uniform to lifecycle, and can she tell us how we can prevent them from being harmed? I had not yet received an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u194	Do I interpret you well, Mr Van Rooijen, when I say that you are already asking for a third term? Or are you saying it's a good idea to ask for it already? What exactly is your intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u195	It's all moving insight. I refer again to the discussion that Mr Rinnooy Kan had with the applicant and the Secretary of State. I'm trying to share as much moving insight into this Chamber as possible. There are three options: we're gonna look at it next week, we're gonna ask now if we think we should ask now. If you are asking for clarity, Mr President, we are now asking for that third deadline. Then the Seniors' College can think about it in good time, and then we will not have any uncertainty next Tuesday as to whether and when that deadline will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u196	That's clear. Mr Van Rooijen is now asking for a third term. We're not gonna decide that right now. We'll decide next week. If the authors of motions were to consider amending the texts, they could do so, because they could be discussed again in the third term. If a third deadline is requested, it is common practice to grant it. However, I cannot say that; it is up to the Chamber. So next week it'll be discussed first in the Seniors' College. The third deadline will then be examined in plenary. However, it will not take place the same day. That deadline will not be Tuesday next week, because the agenda will not allow that. We must then consider when it can take place as soon as possible. If, however, the Chamber decides that we do not have that third deadline, we shall be voting next week. Is that clear? It may be very annoying for you both, Mrs Lodders and Madam Secretary of State, but it is no different. Is it clear to everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u197	Mr President, may I suggest something else? I have promised on a number of points that I will clarify them in writing, especially with regard to communication. I am happy to send a letter to the First Chamber this week in which I clarify a number of things so that we may not need a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u198	Thank you. At least that could help. It is up to the person who asked and also to the Court to decide further. However, it would certainly be helpful if you could come forward with a letter this week containing the answers you have already promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u199	I would like another answer to the question that remains about those existing arrangements. The question was about people who, for example, are 50 years old and in the uniform investment mix and who, at the time they become 65, have to go into a different stream, with a disadvantage of the benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u200	Is there anything else you'd like to say, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u201	I'd like to include that in the letter, but I can also give you an answer. What do you prefer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u202	You'd better take it in the letter if I were you. I think that's a good idea. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u203	I'm fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u204	Okay, we're getting a letter from the Secretary of State this week responding to various points, including the latter. Next week it will be examined whether the Court agrees to the third term requested. Most of the time, the Chamber agrees. If not, we will vote next week. If the House agrees to a third deadline, the deadline will not be next week, but as soon as the agenda permits and the petitioner and the Secretary of State are available. After all, the latter seems rather important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-eerstekamer-4.u205	Thank you all. So I am not going to deal with the bill right now.
