ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State. Members have passed on their speaking time and the overall allocation of speaking time between the first and second periods. If someone speaks a minute longer in the first period, the second period will be a minute shorter. I call Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Good morning. We are talking today about the last budget of this cabinet, and therefore most probably the last budget of these two directors. But we still don't know how the elections are gonna turn out. We can start evaluating. What were the objectives of this cabinet? For that, we must return to the 2012 coalition agreement. In it, we read beautiful ambitions: "provoking talent more and reducing backwardness, even if you are born in a migrant family, a low-income family or participating in special education." It is now November 2016, four years later. What's the most important result? What do we read almost daily in the media? We read that the division in education is increasing. There is a growing gap between rich and poor and between high and low education. The cabinet also confirms this in this week's letter on unequal opportunities. Children from a low-educated family have three times less chance of entering higher education than children from a high-educated family, even if they have the same talents. My question is: what do the rulers themselves think? Does the government have the courage to recognise that this education policy has not been particularly successful? Does she have the courage to say that this growing division is partly caused by political choices? The rulers themselves wrote it in their letter last Monday. "People with different levels of education meet less often and have very different ideas about developments in society. When ideas and worlds of life do not meet enough, this leads to growing incomprehension and mutual distrust." I think this is a razor-sharp observation. You can say that this is largely an autonomous development, that we cannot do anything about it, but I find that far too easy. Isn't it much fairer to say that politics has failed here? Successive Cabinets have allowed this problem of segregation and growing populations to continue. Prime Minister Rutte also struggles with this, I see almost daily in the media. I ask the leaders of education to reflect on this. What role could education play in this and what opportunities has the government missed? For the SP, schools must ensure quality, but equally for learning to live together and for integration. Does the Cabinet share that view? Only then will you avoid the separate worlds that the cabinet rightly says are a major problem. Due to unwillingness and indifference, we are now in a situation of segregation. We see vmbo schools in front of havo/vwo schools. We see schools with many promising children and we see schools with many underprivileged children. We see black and white schools while the neighborhoods are mixed. We see separate worlds, also in education. Unfortunately, this cabinet did not want to take seriously the segregation in education. I have tabled numerous motions on it, examined it and put forward proposals for it, but always the answer was: no, we are not taking it up. And now we see that the separate worlds have become a major election theme. Then sticking your head in the sand wouldn't be defendable, would it? Then we'll have to get to work today, won't we? That is why we have drawn up the Education memorandum as an emancipation motor. Among other things, we are proposing the modernisation of Article 23 of the Constitution. We're gonna stop the subsidised segregation in education. Special schools should no longer refuse children if they do not fit the basis, for example because they are not Christian. Schools must allow every child. To emphasize this, each school could, in a manner of speaking, hang a sign above the entrance with the text "every child is welcome." I'll ask the Secretary of State if he doesn't think that's wonderful. We need to ask how representative our schools are. Two thirds of schools are special, but is two thirds of the population also religious? No, not for a long time. However, special schools are allowed to pursue a selective door policy. I can't do that anymore. After all, they are funded by everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u3	That's gonna loosen up a little bit. I suggest that the interruptions are always done in two stages. The fastest sprint to the interrupting microphone was pulled by Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u4	I know Mr Jasper van Dijk, but I really must object to this. Here 4,000 special schools in the Netherlands and more than 100,000 teachers and masters are put in a corner, as if they were merely segregation and discrimination. In special schools there are as many children of different descent as in public schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u5	That's incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u6	Segregation is in the neighborhoods and not in schools. All these kids are very welcome at all the special schools. I think what Mr Van Dijk is putting here is a farce. He's sketching a delusion. It's horrible!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr Bruins really lives on another planet when he says that segregation does not take place in schools but in neighbourhoods. He has to take this back. The segregation is absolutely also taking place in the neighbourhoods, but the segregation takes place in schools as well or perhaps even worse. There are numerous mixed neighbourhoods in the Netherlands where we still see separate schools, or segregated schools. That's what numbers are about. The same figures show that special schools take relatively fewer migrant pupils than public schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr Jasper van Dijk says 'there are figures' and 'the same figures show', but he sketches a delusion. In this Chamber this kind of images should not be sketched about teachers who teach day, day from their hearts and souls to all those children with different colors and different backgrounds. I hate it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr Bruins is right about it, but he does not take back his wrong statement that there is no segregation in education. I can't debate it that way. What he's saying is just false.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u10	It is a well-known triad by colleague Jasper van Dijk. He says that the verdict is incorrect, whereas the colleague of the CU has just made this very clear. The question that Mr Jasper van Dijk would have to ask himself is whether the segregation observed in schools is a cause or a consequence of the division. Mr Jasper van Dijk's answer may be that segregation is a cause of division, but that is incorrect. The segregation in schools is a consequence. I conclude that Mr Jasper van Dijk, with his rabid proposal, wants to restrict the freedom of education, the freedom of schools to pursue their own policies and the freedom of parents to make their own choices. Is that conclusion correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u11	No, that conclusion is incorrect, but I must compliment Mr Bishop because he acknowledges that there is segregation in education, unlike Mr Bruins. Mr Bishop just wants to know what the cause is and what the result is. The segregation in society, rightly addressed by the government, those separate worlds, which have become a major electoral theme, concerns an issue that has grown in society, in housing, but has certainly also grown and promoted in education, partly through Article 23 of the Constitution, which Mr Bishop loved, which makes it possible for every religion to establish its own school. Especially in the more specific currents very intense segregation takes place. I'm talking about orthodox schools, Islamic schools, Hindu schools, Jewish schools. Those are islands. The question arises as to how desirable that is in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u12	For a moment there was hope in me that Mr Van Dijk would come to some kind of nuance of his rabbit position on segregation, as if education were the cause of this. In any case, he suggested that this might be a result of certain developments, but unfortunately he took the inside again. He's putting the responsibility back on in education. However, this education takes effective action on this issue in its supply of education. One is acting and one is indeed assuming a clear philosophical basis, but then one is actively taking measures to prevent segregation, in the way of education. In other words, Mr Van Dijk denies wanting to restrict the freedom of education, but he will eventually have to admit that his proposal restricts the freedom of education both towards parents and towards schools, perhaps even towards the establishment of education. I would ask Mr Van Dijk to take that aspect of the freedom of education more seriously into his position. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u13	On the contrary. The SP is going to extend the freedom of education. Article 23, which Mr Bishop is so pleased with, gives schools the right to select pupils. The schools he is so happy with, reformorical and reformed schools, have a door policy that does not say "everyone is welcome," but "only students from our base are welcome, others we point the door." Moreover, I think that this is extremely unChristian, whereas these schools are paid by every taxpayer. So we're gonna extend the freedom of education. We make every school accessible to everyone. In doing so, we are modernising Article 23 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u14	I thought I was almost present at a moment of "I have a dream," but let's take a look at the reality of Rotterdam, for example. There you have, among other things, the Calvin secondary school community, the BOOR Foundation for Public Education and Catholic schools. I don't see any difference. The Albeda College has a Protestant-Christian origin. The Zadkine comes from the public paw. I don't see any difference. Is there an active selection policy applied to the port? Isn't that a goddamn game? Mr Van Dijk can't do that, can he? He sketches an image that is completely out of work to score a political point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u15	Disagree. I would like to draw Mr Beertema's attention to a 2013 Forum study which shows that special schools use their basis too often to refuse students if they so wish. They say, "Your child does not fit our foundation. You might want to look at the public school around the corner." Let me give you an example. I was visiting Wartburg College in Rotterdam, a fantastic school with high educational quality. The cleaning lady of Surinamese descent was also present there. I asked her, "What do you think of this school?" "A great school" was her answer. I said, "Would you like to have your child in this school?" "I'd love to." I asked the warden, "Can I do that?" "No," he said, "because the lady doesn't meet the foundation of our school." That was in Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u16	My final question to Mr Van Dijk would be: what is your final picture? Your final picture is: Article 23 is turning its necks and introducing some kind of state education, with a sign "everyone welcome" above the door. Then we simply get a kind of state education in which the SP, D66 and all the other left-wing parties are going to put a big stamp on the what and the how. State education: that's the worst you can think of, isn't it, Mr Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u17	Speaking of templates... Mr Bertema is now trying to ridicule my brilliant proposal. This has nothing to do with state education, but with accessibility, Mr Beertema. Please note that the SP will not close the special schools from tomorrow when we are in charge. The SP is going to make all schools accessible. The freedom of teachers to shape education, Mr Beertema, remains with us. So it has nothing to do with state education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u18	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr Bishop, you have already had endless interruptions. If this continues, we will have to limit the number of interruptions. That's what's bothering everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u20	Certainly, Mr President, but there is room for a personal fact, and that is what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u21	Then you do it now. I know that this point is sensitive to you, but I would urge you to further limit the number of interruptions. I give you the floor for one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u22	I may be accused of a great deal, but I do not think that in debates in this House, I am going to go against excessive interruptions. On the contrary, I'm a model of... well, no, let me not pat myself on the shoulder. I'm holding back, again. Now for the personal fact. Mr Van Dijk talks about a director of Wartburg College. That could have been me, or at least my closest colleague. It is precisely the way in which he presents this fact that illustrates the extreme carelessness with which he presents facts. The example he gives is just one small aspect of the very complex reality. I'd like to have that fact put in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u23	Good. Was there a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u24	I can't let this go on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u25	You may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u26	The event I just told you about, I personally experienced. It was in a room full of students and teachers in that school that I asked the lady: would you like to have your child at this school? The Director's answer was: she may want to, but it is not going to happen, because she does not meet our conditions. It was a toe-curving moment and a icy silence fell on that school. I'd say think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr Van Dijk continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr. Chairman. The rulers are both of secular parties. I'm asking them to take a deep look in the mirror. Is this the system we want? Would we have thought of it that way if we could design education? Of course not, be honest. So let us get to work quickly on the introduction of an acceptance obligation. There is a bill prepared by SP, GroenLinks, D66 and PvdA, but that has been on a shelf for years now. This has to do with the coalition's attitude towards the small Christian parties. I say to PvdA and VVD: stop being held hostage, get to work with that law! If that does not happen within a few weeks, I will submit a legislative proposal myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u29	Before you continue, Mr Van Meenen wishes to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u30	Then D66 would be happy to join us, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u31	On this point, you can rely excellently on D66. In 2017 it is exactly 100 years that article 23...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u32	I understand your answer wasn't enough after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u33	It was entrapment. At first I thought: I will leave it alone, but on second thought Mr Van Dijk deserves the second part of my interruption. He is right to be very critical of this cabinet, but we must not forget that four years ago the SP had delivered the leaders for OCW, because then we would have just cut 1 billion on education. Then the classes would have grown.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u34	Ping!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u35	Have you ever thought about that? This is the last time I can say it, so I will. In the meantime, the SP has changed and is undoubtedly also being invested in its new electoral programme. That is all very nice, but four years ago Mr Van Dijk told the CPB with dry eyes that there was just 1 billion cuts and the CPB estimated class increase as the most promising measure of the SP. We shouldn't forget that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u36	This is a hold in the old box. Mr Van Meenen himself acknowledges that. He's interrupting four years ago. Maybe he should see if that's wise after all. In any case, I would like to say that the SP has never cut back on education. The SP cuts red tape and management, unlike D66, which takes away 1 billion from students, by removing the basic grant and raising a high threshold. The voter can make a choice. If he chooses to cut down on managers, he votes SP; he chooses to cut down on students, then he chooses D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mr Van Dijk spoke to the coalition about the right of admission, but he just mentioned in an example the Labour Party as one of the parties with which he is gathering to organise the right of admission. In my view, it would be more appropriate for him to call on the VVD to organise this majority together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u38	I did. I called on the coalition to stop being held hostage by the small Christian parties. I note that not only the VVD, but also the PvdA for a long time, hesitates for a long time about the very nice legislative proposal on the right of admission, as Mrs Vermue so neatly calls it. Let's file it today! Let's get to work on it today. It's been way too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u39	There is no question of hesitation at all, but we do not have a majority. We're not going to be held hostage. Let us move together to organize that majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u40	The PvdA will be held hostage. We could have handled that bill here a long time ago. Then the VVD really comes to the conclusion during the debate: this is a brilliant proposal, of course we are going to support it, because we are really silly Pietje if we don't. Don't worry about that. It is also appropriate at this time, because next year it is exactly 100 years since Article 23 of the Constitution was introduced. So it's time for an update. Make schools accessible to everyone, regardless of religion or origin. As has already been said, this proposal forms part of our Education memorandum as an emancipation motor. Here it is, Mr. Chairman. I am offering it to the government and I also have a copy for my colleagues. In doing so, we are launching the attack on the growing inequality in education. With additional investments we want to achieve more teachers, small classes and less workload. We also remove barriers that hinder students in their development. There will be more opportunities to accumulate courses, schools will no longer be charged solely on return and students will receive a decent scholarship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u41	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u42	I picked the note from the website last Sunday. So it came to me. We are talking about the 2017 budget. I have not yet seen a counter-budget, but I have sincerely looked at the proposals for next year. What do you think this plan will cost? I want to see what you're all thinking. For example, there will also be revenues from the study advance that will apply next year. Are you going to reverse those investments? I would like a little more justification instead of you calling for everything to be taken care of and that the result is that, in the end, little will be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u43	I say to the viewers at home: when the word'study advance' is used, the term 'debt system' is used. That is the abolition of the basic grant which has affected students. Mr Mohandis boasts: the amount of 1 billion that has been taken away from students and is being used for higher education. At least, that's what they say, but what do the students who are studying today see of that? Nothing at all! It turns out that the proceeds from that debt system will not be released for years. It is therefore a good thing that Mr Mohandis reminds me of this. I ask the Minister about the resources of that debt system. What does today's student notice? My impression is that this is very little. I come to Mr Mohandis' question about the finances of my own plan. He's right to ask that question. It will be a few billions, but I believe that we, like all the other parties, are dealing with the point that election programmes are now being passed on. They are now also being discussed in the party, in the department. Mr Mohandis has read the note since Sunday, for which I congratulate him. So he knows exactly what we want from today: small classes, a good basic scholarship, good flow possibilities and so on. All kinds of financial justifications have been made and they are now at the maled Central Planbureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u44	This is a very general answer. My colleague seems to be avoiding my question, but it is a serious question. You have a lot of plans, and some of them just cost money. It is good, in itself, to have the highest level of ambition, but I would ask you specifically: next year we will set the budget. I'm sure you want to realize things, but I can't judge a plan if it's all there is to it. I would like to hear it more specifically: what do you want tomorrow and how will you arrange it? I do not see a counter-budget, nor do I see a beginning of an amount. What are you thinking? How much would this plan cost? Is that 1 billion, or is that a few billion? It's too vague for me. You do that more often, even if there are serious interruptions about your plans. If you are referring to the reversal of the social loan system or give it another name, I do not care if you are vague about it. You want to take care of everything, but you can't have free beer. You can't walk into a cafe and say to everyone: well, tonight, if you walk away, I'll pay the bill and hope it'll be resolved. It doesn't work that way in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mr Mohandis now uses the word'social loan system'. That's a contradiction in terms. I keep saying, use the word "debt system." That's the truth of the matter. After all, you're burdening students with debts. That is the system introduced by the cabinet with the support of D66 and GroenLinks. Mr Mohandis continues to ask about the finances, which in itself is justified. There's a lot of work on that. In recent years, many proposals have been made by my party, for example by my colleague Siderius. She has a great initiative bill to make small classes. There's financial cover under that. You can just find it. Reverting the basic grant will cost about 1 billion. We have put all this into our election programme. Don't worry: it's a little easier and at least it's a little more well-founded compared to what your group chairman is doing. He is crying out: we are going to invest 10 billion in education! When you read through it, it turns out to be over a period of 15 years. I ask Mr Mohandis how much is 15 divided by 10 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u46	I find this entrapment, so may Mr Mohandis respond. I would ask Mr Van Dijk to hold back in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u47	I feel a great deal of discomfort with Mr Van Dijk when I ask him to explain how he is going to keep investment going and to reverse the basic grant. He's just not open and honest about that. He walks away when he is asked this question, even if others do. My group chairman made it very clear in the interview how he sees the 10 billion over an x-number of years. Our electoral programme also sets out a direction as to how we intend to implement our plans. You are not doing anything, Mr Van Dijk. You're not saying anything about it. "It'll come sometime." That's no use to me. There's no free beer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mr Mohandis says exactly what we are going to do. He says: our programme sets a direction for the way we're going to do it. Right, I'm also setting a direction for the way we're gonna do it. Mr Samsom calls "we're going to invest 10 billion in education." Fantastic! I woke up really happy when I read that. When I started reading the fine print, it turned out to be over a period of fifteen years. So that's less than 1 billion a year. That is the calculation I asked Mr Mohandis. Unfortunately, he himself didn't come up with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u49	Indeed, Mr Samsom mainly called out how much money he was going to invest. I agree with Mr Van Dijk that it was a little less than it seemed from the presentation. What Mr Van Dijk is doing is writing a lot down in a plan, but not saying how much he's going to spend on it. Of course, that's kind of weird. That is the opposite of what he blames the PvdA: a plan without any financial justification. What the hell are we gonna do with that? Why didn't you wait until the bill was ready? It is very much to be appreciated that the SP now lets it pass through. Then we can also see the overall overview and see where Mr Van Dijk gets it and how he wants to cover it. If I keep going fast, I'm gonna come up with some sloppy four to five billion a year. It's possible. If Mr Van Dijk is in favour of this, I have great respect for it. I am also a financial spokesman for my party and I cannot easily get 5 billion for education. So you explain yourself, Mr Van Dijk: how do you cover this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u50	Mr Grashoff says: if you had waited for that pass-through, it would have been better. I would have liked to, but we would have had to postpone today's debate for a few months. GroenLinks also has her plans at the Central Planning Bureau and so does the Labour Party and all other parties. This question will have to be answered by everyone. We have a plan for education. In it we reverse the basic grant and provide small classes and a number of other things. That's going to be about a few billions. That's it, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u51	After a lot of pulling, it seems to be getting a little clearer, but "some billions"? Does Mr Van Dijk agree with me that it is indeed about 4 to 5 billion? Is that right? Did I do the math right, like, on a piece of paper? Does Mr Van Dijk agree with me that, if you present a plan, you should actually have the guts to deliver the financial paragraph?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u52	It will be around EUR 2.5 to 3 billion. Those proposals are now at the Central Planning Bureau and we are going to wait and see how that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr Van Dijk continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u54	For this we arrange the basic grant, for which we arrange small classes and a number of other things. We emphasise the enormous importance of good education for society. Everyone benefits from that. Students get more opportunities, inequality decreases, well-being increases and the economy also benefits from a well-educated population. Poor education translates directly to the opposite: more school drop-out, greater inequality and less well-being. The education policy of this government is therefore very rich when you see that inequality is increasing. I ask the government to read our plan and respond to it. It was written by colleague Siderius, member of the group Erik Flentge and the undersigned. Members will also be given a copy. Take advantage of it towards the election! I come to the extra investment in education. There has been a lot of unrest about this. On Princess Day, the government prides itself on the fact that 200 million will be added for education. On second thought, it turns out to be quite different. The EUR 200 million investment represents a cut of EUR 250 million. So we are net at about 50 million: a fine example of fact-free politics. We already had "Jet and Sander and the millions disappeared," and now we have the sequel: "Jet and Sander and the hidden cuts." Without kidding, does the government recognise that things have been proposed too nicely, that it has cheated a little when it says that 200 million will be added? We give you room for a mea culpa; it would adorn you. This is not all, because there is also a reduction of EUR 10 million in educational deficits that will reach EUR 100 million by 2020. The Education Foundation, with employers and employees, calls for these cuts to be reversed, not only before 2017, but also after that. Then when I read that the government invests 25 million in equal opportunities, that is, of course, a tip. Not only because of the disguised austerity, but also because of other measures that are far more radical. For example, the debt system that takes away as much as 1 billion from students. That makes the action plan a little cheap. In addition, the government is creating duplication of effort. It raises a threshold, particularly for disadvantaged young people, and then takes action against it. A proposal from the Action Plan, for example, is that students should persuade secondary students from disadvantaged environments to study as well. It's really there. I think it's a little shameless. I would like an explanation of this. What about the coalition parties? What are they doing against these hidden cuts? It's still quiet for now. I already mentioned the "10 billion from Samsom," but what about the 10 million for educational disadvantages? Are they undone, too? I like to hear it. Those who implement neoliberal policies should not be surprised when equal opportunities are reduced. In addition to the hidden cuts, there is a lot of annoyance about education funding. It is completely unclear what happens to educational money. Money has been added over the past year, but we don't know what happened to it. This has to do with lump sum funding, the system in which drivers receive one budget that is freely expendable. In order to remove the problems, I propose that educational money be transferred directly to schools rather than to school boards. This way you avoid the money being wasted on management or expensive real estate. We all know the examples at ROC Leiden, Amarantis and Inholland. Let's start with an experiment with some schools. In case of positive results, the system can be extended. Participation councils can take part in decisions on the use of the money. In addition, we can give schools the right to leave a larger school board. This is an incentive for scaling down and reducing bureaucracy. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Once again, there is a lot of fuss about the so-called voluntary parental contribution. This week it is stated in the Algemeen Dagblad that secondary schools increasingly require parents to purchase expensive tablets for their children. That's not possible. If a learning tool is mandatory, parents do not have to pay. If a learning tool is voluntary, you cannot be obliged to pay it. Why does the Secretary of State allow this mess with the parental contribution? Stop this. We say: introduce a maximum parental contribution and introduce sanctions if schools make the parental contribution compulsory. The level may be determined in consultation with the schools. We have a bill in the pipeline for this. Even in the MBO, things aren't going well. School costs are getting out of control. On average, students pay €414, regardless of the tuition fee. For 30% of parents, school costs play a role in the choice of training. The minister comes with an emergency fund, but that's a Band-Aid. The system is demand-oriented, so not all students are reached. We say don't let students take the fall for things that are necessary for the training. Then the MBO school has to take care of it. That's what the Minister says, but it just won't happen. What about the implementation of my motion asking the government to put in writing how the law should be interpreted? I would like to mention a few other points. The policy on practical education is dramatic. Pupils can't go anywhere because of the demolition of all kinds of facilities. 1,500 young people are unemployed at home. What is the Secretary of State going to do about this? There are concerns about the financing of technical VMBO. In response to a SP motion, the government had to talk about adequate funding. I would like to see an update that will take care of this. I ask for a response to the departure of Beter Onderwijs Nederland from the Education Cooperation. The chairman, Ad Verbrugge, denounces the strong steering role of the ministry. Does he have a point? A referendum will be held at the UvA, the University of Amsterdam, on the extent to which democracy is desirable. It is a result of the protests in the Virgin House. Is the Minister prepared to actively promote this referendum, for example by going to Amsterdam with me for an afternoon to talk about it? I'd like to hear a response. The referendum will start on 23 November. Why do some students not receive study funding for a link programme between HBO and university? It seems to be mainly an administrative matter. I'd love some action! There's a lot I can say about science, but it's not feasible for the sake of time. In addition, there is a separate general consultation on this subject. The abolition of the deduction of training expenditure is a bit like throwing away old shoes before you have new ones. We fear that the new regulation will not be enough. Can the cabinet take away this fear? We are talking about the discount on monuments, which are a great deal of concern, during the debate on culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u55	I have a short question about higher education. I don't know the SP's note yet. Does it also say that tuition fees for the second study should become regular tuition fees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u56	Yeah, that's definitely in there. I thank Mr Van Meenen for this question. The tuition fee for a second study shoots through the rooftops. We know examples of studies that cost €10,000 or €20,000. They're priceless. As far as my group is concerned, the legal tuition fees are paid for each study. However, I am happy to look at any improvement in this. We have often debated this and I know that the Labour Party agrees with me, but also wants to look closely at an arrangement that the Cabinet can live with. I also hope for the support of Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u57	I'm not asking this question for nothing. I'm not specifically looking for an arrangement that the Cabinet can live with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u58	But you're looking for a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u59	The Minister is looking very closely at me now. There is no doubt that in due course, after 15 March, we will be able to do business on this point. March 15th is election day. Would you like to join us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u60	After 15 March we go to see who exactly is in box K, but as far as I am concerned we can already start with that. After all, these costs run out of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u61	The Christian Union is proposing very concretely to set a legal ceiling for the tuition fees of a second study. Could the SP and the Christian Union find each other in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u62	It's always useful to show this way that you have a proposal in the making. Of course, Mr Bruins. I was just saying that the tuition is always the legal tuition as far as we're concerned. So I'd say join the SP, the Labour Party and D66. I'll send you the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u63	That sounds like a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u64	We're still getting some special combinations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mr. Chairman. In the past year, private and work for me got together for a while. My daughter in the fourth grade of high school had received a letter. I have that letter with me. It's a letter from her teacher, who invited her to the school's honours program. I quote a few lines from that letter: "You can participate in the honours program if you want. The choice of subject is free, so is the form. To give some ideas: you can develop and market an app, or write a book, compose a symphony or organize an event. You'll get a counselor from the school, but you'll do it. You can discover new things from your own passion and interest. Are there no demands? Yeah, of course I do. Your process and product will be judged on eight competences." Here it comes. There was also a table in the letter, which says that you are judged on "research," "create," "communicate," "work together" and "reflect." And further: "We ask for your bet, two hours a week. The honours program is not a program for which you have to stand an 8.5 average. It's unrelated to numbers. But it wouldn't be so smart if you stuck around because you put all your energy into the program. It's not about numbers. On the contrary, we believe that those who are not so impressed by high grades might have very special talents and could flourish in such a programme. I'm inviting you to think seriously about this. Discuss it with your friends and your parents, and make me an offer." End of quotes from this letter. This letter struck me so directly in the heart, because he did exactly what I have felt so involved in politics in recent years as an educational spokesperson. This program isn't just for the smart guys and the geniuses. This programme challenges, but it does not preface who, what and how. Every talent counts. And talent needs wings. I would like to express my thanks to the teacher who wrote this letter. It symbolises all those teachers and school leaders in education who are committed to our children and students in this way. The Rutte II cabinet has done a lot of good in education over the past four years. For example, more attention was paid to individual talents, such as the honours programme I just told you about. There were the study advance and the 1 billion additional investments in higher education that this would make possible. In addition, the cabinet has shown courage by launching a wide-ranging discussion on the curriculum of the future: what should primary and secondary education look like? It has also taken steps for the teacher register, which is finally coming off the ground. I would like to thank the two rapporteurs for the budget, Mr Vermue and Mr Straus. They reported last week on behalf of the committee on progress in challenging education. The specific objective of the proportion of pupils who are bored because the teaching material is too easy was almost 60% a few years ago. Now, a few years later, that's only 25. That's still too much, but it's really incredibly much lower. That's a wonderful success. I ask the Secretary of State what the story behind these fine figures is. Are those the plus portfolios? Is that personal learning? Are they the talent programs? Are there any other fine examples that schools have initiated? However, we are talking here today not only about primary and secondary education but also about vocational education. I am a little less positive about the MBO on this point. Four years ago, only one in four students felt challenged there. That is still the case today. Unfortunately, therefore, I have to ask the Minister: how can this be done? This group of students, who are skilled in a profession, is indispensable for the Dutch economy. Why hasn't this improved in the last four years? There have been many successes in higher education. The evaluation of the performance agreements shows enormous progress. The Volkskrant headlines on 26 October: "Higher education is taking a step forward" and the NRC on 25 October: "Students are more satisfied with higher education." We see greater student satisfaction, more excellence, more intensive education, more contact hours per week, more variation in education, broad bachelors, excellence programmes, interdisciplinary training. Specifically for HBO there are two-year associate degrees, the Ad's, special courses for vwo'ers, on which I have worked with colleague Mohandis, and professional masters. Less young people were delayed. In college, there was a double-digit decline. Unfortunately, this was not achieved in the HBO. Especially in the Randstad this is still problematic for HBO. The efficiency has fallen slightly and the drop-out is lasting and shockingly high. I will come back to that later. In short, the headlines are for a reason that higher education is moving forward. That's what I'm gonna tell the Minister. The winners are the students. To all the people and parties who complain all the time, the Virgin House residents in particular, I would like to say that they should send a positive two instead of each time that complaining. Because that doesn't get us anywhere. Stop whining! And pay for your garbage. The VVD wants to go through, from performance to quality agreements. Of course, we have to learn from the past. We must say, among other things, that there must be more local support and effort, commitment with an English word, and more distinction in the agreements to be made between the institutions. All eyes on the ball and to the goal. Even better education. All these improvements have been made possible by the government's increased investment in education. Despite all the necessary cuts in recent crisis years in all other departments, education has been spared and spending has been increasing every year. This also strikes the OECD, or the OECD, as we call the organisation in Dutch. Education at a glance from 2016, the OECD report, notes that both total expenditure and expenditure per student have increased in the Netherlands. Public expenditure on education has increased, both in terms of the percentage of national income and in terms of the percentage of total public expenditure. I'm gonna take a break, because the facts speak for themselves. In its comprehensive review from 2016, the OECD praises the strengths of Dutch education. The Dutch education performance is strong, both in knowledge and in equal opportunities. However, the OECD rightly also identifies the challenges. I say that before Mr Van Dijk makes his interruption. The robustness of the early track selection system has increasing difficulties, due to variations in early selection. In addition, the OECD says that the motivation of students and students is low and that there are few real excellences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u66	My compliments on Mr Duisenberg's tone. I like positive, optimistic speeches. It is a pity, however, that it ignores three quarters of reality, namely the growing division, the growing gap between the poor and the rich in education. I don't hear a word about that. Maybe you will. Mr Duisenberg then said that funding per student has increased recently. So there's more money going to higher education. No wonder. If you abolish the basic grant, steal students and transfer that money to higher education, then the contribution to higher education increases. Nice work, but I wouldn't be proud if I were Mr Duisenberg. The question is, what happens to that extra money? Does Mr Duisenberg agree with me that we have very little idea of this and that we need to start financing education so that we know much better what is happening with each education euro? For example, should we not know how many teachers are appointed to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u67	First of all, I would like to respond to Mr Van Dijk's introduction and then address his specific question. In recent years, the amount going to education has increased: in 2012, the starting year of this cabinet was 30 billion euros and now, in 2016, that is 34 billion euros. I can't get around it: there's just money coming in. Education is right to say that we will all agree to this in the difficult years that not only the departments but also the people in the country have experienced. I think that's worth a compliment to these rulers. With man and power has been tried to get through these difficult years and to spare the education. That worked out more than it did. The budget has gone from EUR 30 billion to EUR 34 billion. That is an increase; these are only intensifications. The OECD also indicates that. We were already high in the OECD's budget lines, but the OECD states that it has become even more, not only in total, but also as a percentage of national income and as a percentage of total expenditure. This also applies to expenditure per student and per pupil. The college advance money isn't even in there yet. I'm not counting on that at all. That is what Mr Van Dijk said in his introduction, but that is not the case at all. You'll see that money in the budget from 2018. So from 2018 onwards hundreds of millions will be added. In 2024, that's going towards the billion. So there's a lot more to it. We made that move because we want to invest even more. I come to Mr Van Dijk's question. I fully agree with him that we need more insight. The Chamber and the committee have rightly committed themselves to gaining more insight into the investments. That we invest more money, we see, but we also want to know what will come back, what the results will be. The room must be tighter on that. We have expressed this in the motion on lump sum financing and gaining more insight. We need to keep doing that. We haven't come to the end of it yet. We have received a letter, but I think that the Chamber still needs to have a tight debate with both directors on how to get the finger out of this. It is not so much about more money as about what we achieve with it. We need to be on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mr Duisenberg talks about extra money for education. Then it is surprising that I read everywhere that the government is not investing the next budget, but is making 50 million cuts on balance. I did not hear Mr Duisenberg say that. I'm going back to my main point: funding. I think we both want more transparency, more insight into what happens to an education euro. Actually, it's not getting anywhere. There's gonna be some letters, but we still don't know what's gonna happen to the money. Does Mr Duisenberg agree with me that we should start an experiment in which we do not transfer the money to drivers, but to schools? The money would then go straight to the schools, away from the bow, and could be used very purposefully, per school, where one is entitled to a certain budget. Can I tempt Mr Duisenberg into such an experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u69	In his eagerness, Mr Van Dijk starts again with the laying down of something which, in his view, is a fact, but the amount spent on education has risen from 30 billion to 34 billion in this cabinet period. I explained that in detail. To get these facts on the table, the committee has rapporteurs. I just thanked all the rapporteurs for this round; we do so every time in turn. It is a pity that Mr Van Dijk was not present at that session, because I do not think he would have kept this introduction. That's too bad. Maybe next time he can come back, because then we can really have a debate on facts again. Mr Van Dijk made a proposal. I don't like shooting things off right away or saying I don't like them. I think we should get better insight. I think that this is particularly about transparency. This is not just a question of where the money is spent. That might not even be the biggest problem. The big problem is that you don't see what's been achieved. You have a much better understanding of what has been achieved in higher education, in HBO and in wo. That's because of the performance agreements. Maybe we should talk about that, too. Perhaps Mr Van Dijk should take a good look at that too. This is very insightful, and we know what has been achieved with the education money there. Quality agreements or performance agreements are very useful. Then you shouldn't just do a lump sum and say: I stick my fingers in my ears, I put my hands in front of my eyes and that's it. Perhaps the SP should take an open look at that as well. That has not been the case so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u70	Mr Duisenberg continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u71	I quoted the OECD with its strengths, but also with the OECD's concerns. After the successes that can be celebrated, we must now look forward again. There are challenges left. So let's move on! The OECD says that the Netherlands is right to aim high. Ambition! For those of you who know me a little, I like that. The VVD wants to work on education in which everyone gets fair opportunities to develop themselves as much as possible. In addition, we can boast of a long liberal tradition of self-development. This self-fulfilment is not only in the sense of cognitive skills, but above all also in the sense of self-reliance, self-responsibility, a flexible attitude to life, creative and critical thinking skills, communicative, social and cultural skills, curiosity and entrepreneurship. Character! This development is about much more than work and economy. This also has to do with the way we deal with rapid changes around us and interact with each other on our little piece of earth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u72	Hallelujah! Of course that all sounds wonderful, the VVD wants to give everyone opportunities. But perhaps Mr Duisenberg can explain to me why he supports this cabinet in its intention to cut back on backward policies and in schools. That is what is happening in this budget. This has also been mentioned by Mr Van Dijk. There are festive reports of 200 million investments, but in the meantime we're cutting back 400 million. How does that fit in with Mr Duisenberg's cheerful story of just now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u73	This too has been the subject of discussion before, but on balance there is no savings at all in schools. D66 takes a line out of a table with twelve lines and says: you see, there's a cut. But you have to look at the different cuts and intensifications and you have to add them under the line. In the schools, too, the money just goes up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u74	They're just cutting back on schools. 200 million is coming up, 255 million is going down with pure cuts and another 150 million is going to be compensated by this cabinet with a windfall. We should give that as cover for our motions! But come on, we're all gonna see that. That is simply less money on balance, of course the education budget can increase on balance due to autonomous developments, for example if wage measures are taken, but children in disadvantaged situations, who apparently also want to give the VVD opportunities, have nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u75	I also find investing in teachers in schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u76	Okay, well, I don't. Investing in teachers is important, but I'm here about the opportunity story. Students are directly affected by cuts in educational deficits policies. Just that point! Get into that! How are you looking at that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u77	The teacher's in the school, too. There is therefore an investment in schools. There's just more money going to schools on balance. The fact that certain keys are then being worked on is another debate. You cannot agree on the way in which these keys are put together, but that debate has been held extensively here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u78	I object to that, because that debate has not been conducted at all. We are now debating the budget. Education deficit policy is simply part of this budget. That is being cut back, while it is about the most vulnerable students and about people who should have a chance. It is very nice that Mr Duisenberg's daughter received such a beautiful letter, but I do not really find that interesting. I take it for granted that his daughter, Mr Duisenberg, has brought her into the debate himself. However, it is about children who are really lagging behind. That's what the cabinet's cutting back on. How does that fit in with Mr Duisenberg's story that the VVD wants to give all children in the Netherlands optimal opportunities? I would now like to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u79	Once again, fortunately, I have more than one child. I also have kids who go to other schools in different neighborhoods. I see it happening in those schools. So Mr Van Meenen should not say that my daughter is different. After all, I see it happening in other schools. Again: to all schools, to all education goes more money. Then Mr Van Meenen should not take out one thing and complain that it is less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u80	I see that Mr Grashoff is trying to interrupt. I would ask you all to put brief questions and give succinct answers in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u81	I'll do my best. In the discussion on whether education is being stepped up or whether savings are being made on education, a salient detail comes around the corner. The day before yesterday, when we discussed the Tax Plan, we heard that the entire Chamber, including the coalition groups, is concerned with the proposal for the cuts in the depreciation of monuments and the reduction in education. I put it together and I think the sum is about 125 million. This means that there is 125 million less to spend on education. Is that what Mr Duisenberg is worried about? How does he intend to solve this problem from the coalition perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u82	I will get back to that in a moment, but I think it is obvious that I am frowning a lot when it comes to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u83	Then I await the story of Mr Duisenberg. Perhaps I will come back to this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u84	Development is about much more than work and economy. Development also has to do with the way we deal with each other here and live together. Our country has grown up through entrepreneurship, a pioneering spirit, openness, tolerance and occasionally a healthy stubbornness. The standards and values of our democratic rule of law are our compass. You are free to live as you please, but that freedom is limited by the freedom of another. People are equal regardless of their faith, race, gender or sexual orientation. It's about your future, not your origins. In this country, everyone is equal. If we disagree, we are not going to yell at each other, but we are going to conduct the debate on the basis of facts, in an open way and with respect for each other. This is also unfolding: formation of your personality in the broadest sense of the word. For all this, we all bear responsibility. That certainly applies to education. Where are critical citizens trained other than in education, who have an open attitude and respect for themselves in society? This is particularly true in education. That is why the VVD has entered into the public debate on this issue. Mr Straus's motion was adopted and called for action on this point. This motion asked for the fundamental Dutch values to be firmly anchored in the core curriculum. Can the Secretary of State indicate how this motion will be worked out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u85	I see that the VVD will see the importance of the shared tradition and of the shared values in our society. There was far too little attention paid to this in education too. I am very pleased with Mr Duisenberg's twist. At a number of different times I have tabled motions for greater attention to Western values, standards and traditions in education, but all these times, three times in a row, the VVD Group voted against. Why did the VVD Group vote against?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u86	I should look at these motions again, but I think there have undoubtedly been things in the recitals that we did not agree with. It's not just about Western values either. It is also about how we deal with each other here, how things stand with our tolerance towards each other, or whether you are open to other cultures. The PVV isn't really known for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u87	I can serve Mr Duisenberg immediately. I would just like to quote a remark and a recital: 'noting that schools, where appropriate, take the wrong view from a culture of political correctness or even take no stand, for example in terrorist attacks or in the education of the Second World War; whereas it is also the task of education to give pupils insight into the achievements and freedoms of Western civilisation'. Next comes the request. That's what the VVD was against. I mentioned a statement and a recital, but the VVD opposed it. Did that have anything to do with the fact that the VVD was not yet there, or with the fact that it was a PVV motion and that there is a policy in this respect, the PvdA is not secretive about not even reading PVV-motions? The same applies to amendments. That is the democratic use in that party. That is not the case in Mr Duisenberg's party, but was that perhaps something to do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u88	No, it may have been the context of the debate, because we are always looking closely at the text of a motion. Mr Beertema knows that. I recently supported a great motion by the PVV concerning the Islamic University of Rotterdam. Mr Beertema thanked me for that. So I am simply judging a motion on the content and context of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u89	Sure, but I hope that, if such a motion comes along again, the VVD who will probably join in warmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u90	Again, we look at that every time with an open sight. That's how they know us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u91	I think the VVD should start worrying if the PVV thinks they're getting very close. I have a question about this, too. The election programme of the VVD states that Dutch traditions, values and freedoms must be anchored in education. It also says: "We can expect all teachers to endorse, promote and convey the Dutch values and traditions." Can Mr Duisenberg call me two traditions of the Netherlands which must be actively promoted by all teachers in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u92	For starters...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u93	Just two traditions, let's be specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u94	I do not think it is up to us to define very specific traditions here. There are, however, a number of general standards and values and the principles of our democratic rule of law. I mention a number of things that I already had in my text. You are free to live as you please, but your freedom is limited by the freedom of another. People are equal regardless of their faith, race, gender or sexual orientation. There are certain things you don't even have to discuss anymore. That's what you're assuming. That's your compass. That's the base. In addition, there are many other topics in our society. You can't determine exactly how to sit in the chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u95	I am aware that we have a Constitution in the Netherlands and that we also have fundamental rights. I think it is a good thing that these matters are dealt with in education, but Mr Duisenberg has been around my question, because it was not about fundamental rights. It was about the traditions. That's literally in the VVD election program. Dutch traditions must be actively promoted by teachers. Then as a party you have to have an image of which ones, because how else can you check if the teachers do that properly? I would ask Mr Duisenberg once again to call me two traditions which he believes should be passed on to all teachers in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u96	Then I'll give you my personal opinion. Again, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u97	I'm making a point of order. I do not care at all what Mr Duisenberg's personal opinion is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u98	I'm about my own answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u99	It's about the VVD program.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u100	The question is clear. I call Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u101	I'm about my own answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u102	I would ask D66 to be a little more economical in bringing in points of order, because that makes absolutely no sense in this case. This is a very toxic attack by the cultural relays, who are laughing in the PvdA's booth to ask the question 'now you call two traditions'. They're just laughing out loud. Mr Van Meenen assumes that there are no Dutch traditions. The Netherlands isn't worth anything. This is the road with us and the road with the Netherlands sound. If there's no answer then...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u104	...there will be a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u105	Gentlemen, gentlemen. Mr Van Meenen, briefly. Mr Duisenberg then reacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u106	Let's get back to the order, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I like it very much. I really like the debate.... that Mr Beertema is now starting to harass me behind the interrupting microphone with all this bullshit. If we are allowed to do this here, I think it would be very nice, but I will allow myself to do it later. It was a good diversion, but now back to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u107	You've asked the question three times. I propose that Mr Duisenberg should try to reply one more time. Mr Duisenberg: brief and brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u108	The question is clear, I think. I also think that I have indicated what the conditions are for me: these are the principles of our democratic rule of law. I was about to mention a number of examples. I note, however, that in The Hague we cannot prescribe exactly 'it is and it is not'. Let me say what I would understand as a person and how I would fill it out. However, it is up to education itself to do so. For example, I don't think it's normal for us to take out Charlie Hebdo's posters in a school. I don't think that's normal. What do I think is normal? I think it's normal for gay people to just walk hand in hand across the street and shake hands with each other. Those are things that are normal. I do not think we should tolerate that these things could not be tolerated. We need to talk to each other about that. Those are examples I give you. That is also what the Strauss motion asked the Secretary of State for: how are the core values now anchored? There is simply an important role for education at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u109	Mr President, allow me. I just can't get an answer. I'm not concerned with the core values. The fact that homosexuals can walk hand in hand in the Netherlands is not a tradition, that is a right. That's not what I'm talking about; that's undisputed. Of course, this has to be addressed in education, but I am referring explicitly to the word traditions. That was deliberately chosen. It does not say in the VVD programme that the schools should know for themselves what traditions they are. No, it says "We can expect all teachers to endorse, promote and convey the Dutch values and traditions. Each teacher should know how these values can be discussed." Et cetera. Traditions; that's what it's about. It's a consciously chosen word. For the last time, therefore, I would like to ask two of those traditions that the authors of the VVD programme have had in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u110	Mr Van dennen may be dissatisfied with an answer, but that does not mean that he has not received an answer. I would like to state what the most important principles are for me. He calls that tradition and then goes into filleting it, but the most important compass, Mr van Meenen, is freedom of expression and the fact that the freedom of one ends where the freedom of the other begins. We won't tolerate it if it's different. You can't be happy about that, but that's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u111	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u112	I suggest that Mr Duisenberg should now move on to his next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u113	Mr. Chairman. Self-development is by definition a personal process. That is where the challenge lies. Of course, education must take everything out of the box to solve the frictions experienced in the transitions in education. But this should not mean that the bar is set so low that children stumble over it. Nor should it mean paying attention to one to the other at the expense of the other. You want every child and every adult to have the opportunity to fully develop. Let us leave the education of mediocrity and of the "average good" permanently behind us and build on education that offers opportunities to all 17 million Dutch people. This is what we want to do. In the Action Plan together and in last year's maximum agenda, the VVD started a wide-ranging education with a new, twenty-first century curriculum, second in which the talent of each pupil and student is central, and third in education and science that are in line with society and the labour market. Education that focuses on maximum opportunities for everyone, rather than focusing on the prescribed average, with customized diplomas, talent programs, flow variants, flex studies, plus portfolios, association degrees, study choice activities and many opportunities for continuous renewal and learning throughout your life. Education is not responsible for your choices and happiness, but education should offer you as many opportunities and resources as possible. Eventually, you have your own responsibility and you'll have to do it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u114	I see Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u115	In itself, I very much appreciate the language and approach that Mr Duisenberg chooses here on behalf of the VVD, but I do wonder which VVD I am dealing with here. I have always seen the VVD education policy very much as a policy aimed at preparing for the labour market, efficiency and return. These are all concepts that come out of the VVD's case and, in my opinion, run counter to the opportunities for development in a number of ways. Nevertheless, I can hear Mr Duisenberg telling us an opportunity story here. I am very pleased with that and could take over the story in the GroenLinks programme. Well, then I'm just wondering what that's like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u116	This broad development, that self-development is of course just in the principles of the VVD. I would like to give two examples of why I do not share Mr Grashoff's view at all. The discussion on the broad curriculum started by a VVD Secretary of State. It took guts to come up with that, but he did it. I think that the debate on broadening the curriculum is an important one. It is not just a question of knowledge, but also of other skills. Another example is the proposal we have made here, together with the Labour Party, to make the plan of flex study, which came out of the box of the National Student Union (LSVb), truly concrete. Flex study is ideally intended for a broad self-development. How nice it would have been if GroenLinks had supported that plan. With the support of GroenLinks, we could really have given that broad self-development a boost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u117	Mr Duisenberg will be able to interrupt me on all the points he wants, but I was interrupting and I am not going to answer his questions. In recent years, the VVD has also played a significant part in creating or maintaining barriers to the uptake and flow of education. I am referring, for example, to the flow of the VMBO to the Havo. That is what we are demanding, and when we call upon the Secretary of State, he says: yes, yes, I am going to look at it again, but in the end it does not go through with it. Does Mr Duisenberg agree with me that, if we want to put development at the heart of the matter, we must put an end to all kinds of selection-at-the-gate mechanisms beyond the usual requirements, which are enshrined in the education system as such?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u118	In this case, I have to give a nuanced answer. I agree with what Mr Grashoff has in mind, but not where he begins. At the specific point of the flow from vmbo to havo the following. If you have a one-level diploma, I think that is the main one, and that is the end-point, which should give that diploma the opportunity to move on to the next level. However, the starting point is not to start lowering the bar. Lowering the bar is the last thing you have to do. Otherwise you get what we had a few years ago in HBO: the quality eventually went down, because the students couldn't handle it. The starting point is to ensure that the quality of education provided goes up. If that's good enough, you can consider letting those extra demands go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u119	When we talk about going through what Mr Grashoff is talking about and starting from the right point, I say that in the VVD election programme it says that if the final test differs in a positive sense from the advice of the primary school teacher, the highest advice should be leading. Is Mr Duisenberg prepared to take up the gauntlet with me in order to table a joint motion on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u120	Yeah, I'm sure I'm open to that, but you'll have to read the whole election program. We also want the final test and the teacher's advice to come out at the same time. I see you sighing and shrinking and thinking: that's too bad. The VVD and the PvdA have a different opinion on the time period. But we can see that in that combination. The VVD says that the final test should be given a leading role in the advice for secondary school. This requires that the final test and the advice of the primary school teacher should be carried out simultaneously and that the highest advice should apply. By the way, it must always be possible for parents and teachers to say in consultation: we want to deviate from this and do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u121	It is a question of the right to the highest opinion. In this house I learned over the past year that politics is taking steps. Sometimes it is small steps and it is not immediately complete, for 100%, achieving the goal as you indicate in your election programme. I therefore believe that this would be a good step in the direction we are all in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u122	Yes, you can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u123	Mr Duisenberg continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u124	I'm moving on. I have a number of specific points for this budget. I have said that it is about broad education, that everyone's talent is central and that there is a connection to the labour market. I would like to draw particular attention to a number of points in this budget. Firstly, the issue of the quality of teachers and school leaders. It is crucial for this broad development. The VVD is therefore positive about the additional investment of EUR 40 million in school leadership training. For more top class students, we have asked for more challenging teacher training in previous debates. But we are also asking for competitive working conditions. Human resources policy and remuneration must become more professional, more inspiring and motivating. Poor performance must have consequences. The VVD believes that distinction in career paths and greater differentiation in teacher rewards is necessary to keep the profession attractive to top players. I asked you last time to investigate more differentiation. What about the State Secretary's investigation into career paths and wage differentiation? Secondly, the issue of labour market integration. Following the right study is important for all of us, because during your studies and after that you can spread your wings. I would like to mention a number of points relating to the integration of the labour market and the choice of study. The fixus in engineering training is unacceptable. The Minister has already been addressed in debates with the Chamber in 2014. So that was two years ago. We aim for four out of ten graduates in engineering. After a lot of marketing, that finally seems to work out.The influx is at least four in ten and then you put a student stop on it. That doesn't make sense. Together with the CDA, I ask the Minister to ensure that there is no more fixus on technology for training that will start in September 2017. I also call for research into the bottlenecks in capacity and funding at four technical universities and for a more fundamental assessment of the funding allocation model.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u125	We share care. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. D66 also believes that this is not possible. Fortunately, you can see that student numbers are increasing in studies that cost more. You would expect this to have a financial effect as well. Suppose all students in the Netherlands are going to study technique, that costs more money. Then we cannot say: we do so by the same means that we have had so far. So far, many students have opted for an alpha- or gamma-science. In a newspaper article I read that we have to see if anything can be removed from psychology. Surely we do not have the situation that in alpha and gamma sciences there is a kind of abundance and wealth that we can shift to technical training? Shouldn't it be the conclusion in advance that if we have such a successful policy, more students for technology should increase resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u126	For every engineering student there is more funding than for an alpha student. By the way, most of the funding is for the gamma student. There are thus already several factors that are taken into account in the current model. The current funding simply follows student numbers. What's in the model is applied neatly. I don't want to anticipate what the investigation should bring. I think it is important that the model we are applying is adequate for what is needed for the various studies. I think it is premature to say "we expect this to come out."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u127	I'd almost say if only the student's funding ran along. That is in itself the case, but for less than 40% of the total funding. The rest is not student-related at all, but fixed. That's a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u128	Well, that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u129	Mr Van Meenen will finish his question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u130	I am not opposed to research in itself, but I think we should already conclude that the outcome of this successful policy should simply have a financial impact, especially for the coming year. There's a very clear message from the universities. I think we're gonna have to add 10 million in the next year. Maybe we can make it. How does Mr Duisenberg view this? We know that research can take a long time and you can do a lot with statistics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u131	I'll repeat it again. I'll split it into two pieces. First of all, the problem of the coming year simply needs to be resolved. You can't have an investigation while time is ticking. As early as 2014, my colleague Anne-Will Lucas pointed out that there was a numerus fixus coming: "what are you going to do about it?" That was in 2014, then, two years ago. Then it is not acceptable if today twelve training courses close the door; that simply cannot be done. Another positive thing: all campaigns work for more technology. So it works, there's more tech students coming in, and that's great. So that's the problem now. Then towards the future. I do not want to anticipate the conclusions. It's good to look at this. Mr Van Meenen says that it is a major problem that it is partly fixed and partly variable. In another debate, Mr Van Meenen says again "it's all student-related and everyone just starts thinking about student numbers; that's not good." Now, apparently, it's a good time to say something else. With regard to the fixed part, I understand that in times when there are huge increases, as you are now, you will notice. However, there have also been times when there have been decreases in student numbers and then you offer universities a bit of continuity in funding. Those are weighings. An investigation must indicate what works well. It turns out that it's very difficult to plan something like that from above, centrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u132	I have one final brief question: what is the VVD actually proposing for the next budget, in addition to the proposal it has made with the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u133	I expect a firm response from the Minister in the first term. Otherwise, together with Mr Rog, I will be tabling a motion on that point. It was said two years ago: solve it, do something with it and be creative. That's what I'm saying. It's the end result that matters to me. I want that door to stay open for the tech students.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u134	Once again, Mr Duisenberg has asked for a very concise answer, because the answers are often much longer than the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u135	That policy has indeed been very successful. We are very pleased with this; our economy is particularly pleased with it. However, given the excessive focus of all these universities on internationalisation, it is really crazy for words that there is now a numerus fixus. International students are actively recruited, including for all these technical training courses, even in such a way that the language of instruction at all these universities has become English. Well, English... it's become like coal angels. That seems to be the language used everywhere. I've been told that's the case even in the library in Tilburg. We should look critically at that exaggerated focus. Mr Duisenberg, wouldn't it be awesome if Dutch students were to fall victim to a numerus fixus, while international students abroad are being recruited by bus and train loads who do take part in these studies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u136	Let me start by saying that I think the internationalisation, which puts students from abroad in Dutch lecture halls and makes Dutch students also go abroad, is a great thing. I think that is very important, because the Netherlands is not the Netherlands from behind the dikes. We might have a different picture of that. The Netherlands is a trading country in the middle of Europe and in the middle of the world. As far as the specific point is concerned, this is something that needs to be looked at. If a Dutch student simply meets the standards to be able to do an education, he should not be outside the door because the group is full of foreign students. This is not yet the case with these technical training courses. There should therefore be no hypothetical case in which this is so. The Dutch student should not be outside the door because there would already be too many foreigners. That is not the case, but I would like to take part in your hypothetical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u137	The question isn't that hypothetical. There are universities with active recruitment officials up to Saudi Arabia. All over the world, advertising is being made for Dutch universities. There's a huge over-focus on that internationalization. Of course, the scientific world is international, but that is also the case without the over-focus and all the stimulant measures. We are not sitting behind the dikes eating Brussels sprouts, Mr Duisenberg. We are of course deeply convinced that our students must also study abroad. In fact, there is no balance between the number of Dutch students studying abroad and the number of foreign students studying in the Netherlands. It's gonna go all the way to the wrong side. I would like to draw your attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u138	I also want more Dutch students to study abroad. More Dutch students need to find out about abroad, because that is still not happening. So I fully agree with that, but I repeat that I agree with the idea of internationalisation. She is an enrichment for our education, but it must be that our Dutch students can also do those technical studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u139	I shall return to Mr Duisenberg's proposal. The successful campaigns to seduce more young people into technical training are a gain. Let's establish that with each other. The question now is whether we will continue to facilitate this in the future. Yesterday, I saw that CDA's parliamentary questions were answered. In these answers, the cabinet clearly states that on average more money is going to technical universities, but that this does not appear to be sufficient. Does Mr Duisenberg only want to investigate that particular part of the funding? The funding of higher education is quite complex and has historical fixed feet and so on. We once had an exercise together at the Ministry. It's pretty complicated. Another aspect is the emancipating task of universities. Students who stack in the professional column can "take less funding" to the university via an HBO-propedeuse. I think it is important that universities continue to fulfil that emancipation function. It is possible that there are institutions that are getting in the way of this ambition. Do I understand that Mr Duisenberg is proposing a broader view of this funding? Or does he just lance for engineering training? I would like to join him in picking up the gauntlet, because the current form of funding in higher education is not sacred to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u140	I'd like to pick up that glove. Almost everyone in this Chamber has been working intensively on higher education during this entire cabinet period, which will soon be over four years. Several times it has been found that there are bottlenecks in the methodology. By the way, every method has its advantages and disadvantages. I think you need to map out the bottlenecks that exist and then determine what the scope of the study is going to be. I think it is very important for the future of the Netherlands that there are enough technicians. I am now starting from the bottleneck in this area, but I know that what Mr Mohandis calls is also said. Young and old universities have different fixed feet. That's something from the past. There is no doubt that we are going to talk about this scope.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u141	I'm glad to hear that. By the way, I can't tell anyone that it's not important to look very closely at the numerus fixus. We have to do that together, but I think that task is much broader. I had hoped that Mr Duisenberg would have said a little more to Mr van Meenen's question: what if it turns out that the funding on the left or right is not sufficient? Then we will have to do more in the future to maintain our ambitions. I think we agree on that. However, this should not be done within the budget so that the maximum differentiation within the budget is achieved. Socially valuable training can be put at the cost of this. In the debates we have already had a discussion on the small languages and unique training courses. In short, I would like to have something more in the picture that Mr Duisenberg wants with that research. Should it then be placed within the budget or, in addition to the study advance, is it more necessary to maintain the ambitions in the broad sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u142	I don't want to anticipate that. That is what I said to Mr Van Meenen. For science, such an investigation was once done. Then more scenarios are described. So I do not want to anticipate this. It is important that we take a close look at this. I think we agree on that. If there are these bottlenecks, we should not run away from them. We just need the facts on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u143	Mr Duisenberg and I find each other in the plea for more technicians and betas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u144	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u145	Those people keep our country running. That's good. We need them. I didn't really know that we here in the Chamber were also talking about the numerus fixus at universities, because the institutions have the academic freedom to set it up. But now that it's coming along, I'm just thinking a little bit further. Technical universities say that a numerus fixus is necessary to keep education quality in order. It can't be: the fixus gone. However, we also have studies where the beamer is transferred to the next lecture hall, because then 800 instead of 400 freshmen can be housed. I'm not exaggerating. Of course, that is not really educational quality either. Can we not see whether a numerus fixus is needed to keep the Netherlands running?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u146	Before the summer we talked about, as they call it, the "macro-efficiency." We have recently received a letter on this subject. You know the VVD thinks you should take a good look at that. Is the number of students you train with what is on the labour market and offer? So you have to look at that. Let me quote Mr Rog's comparison. There is a sharp contrast: we have a fixus on technique, but this year we have more psychology students, despite all the alarming reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u147	I would like to continue with Mr Duisenberg on this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u148	I am not only concerned about technology at the universities, but also about technology in VMBO. In more and more areas, technical VMBO training is in danger of disappearing. The pupils then opt for general training, with a high risk of unemployment. There is also a good chance that they will have too little luggage and that they will have too little affinity with technology, and that they will not go through to the technical MBO; and that when we need technical people so badly. Does the Secretary of State share my concern about the technical vmbo? Equally important is that interest in science and technology... I take it we're gonna hang out again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u149	If we're gonna respond to every sentence, it's not gonna make any sense, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u150	I appreciate your flexibility, Mr President, but this is another subject: the technical vmbo. I share Mr Duisenberg's concerns. At the moment there is no technical vmbo in half of the Dutch municipalities. If you convert that data into the population, that means that about a quarter of our 12- to 18-year-olds have no vmbo technique within cycling distance. Yesterday I heard from the SME Netherlands that we need 23,000 of these people. The mandatory profiles now fall down to vmbo, including vmbo technology. Is Mr Duisenberg prepared to see if we can do some more repair work on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u151	In fact, I would like to reply that I would like to await the answer of the Secretary of State. First, I want to hear how he sees the situation and what he's going to do about it. Because he's in the middle of these things. Clearly, I share these concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u152	I have a question about this, too. You're right to ask the Secretary of State. Indeed, yesterday we spoke with VNO-NCW and with SMEs. They indicate that it is not progressing at all and that it looks suspiciously like the Secretary of State is slowing things down a bit. And that while he was quite excited about the SP motion before the summer recess with the request to discuss this and see if resources could be made available for this purpose. Let's say those conversations aren't really smooth and the story of VNO-NCW is true. Is the VVD group going to put money into this? Or does she say, "It's fun, but that's it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u153	I don't want to anticipate that. I would like to say that as a chamber, we are in favour of telling the Secretary of State what we think. I'm gonna wait for his first-term answer. If we are not satisfied with this, we in the Chamber say that he must continue to work. The VVD is willing to do the same. Of course, I'm not asking these questions for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u154	Then the question is: what answer is the VVD group satisfied with this Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u155	The technical vmbo is just important. The Secretary of State must remove our concerns about the image of disappearing VMBO training. I'll mention something concrete. I've seen the advice. It contains issues such as improving student education. That is the kind of thing I want to see again. It also talks about funding keys and so on. So we need to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u156	My question was: when will the VVD Group be satisfied? So what should the answer of the Secretary of State of your own party be to ensure that the VVD Group is satisfied on this point, so the funding of the technical vmbo, is satisfied?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u157	It's not about how, it's about the end result. The end result must be that the technical vmbo gets the attention it needs and that we do not see it disappear. We need more technical students and not less. I am therefore concerned with the final result. If the Secretary of State can make that right, then we'll see how satisfied we are with it, but it's what I care about, about the result. It is important that interest in science and technology is aroused early, preferably at primary school. The scientific nodes and the eleven regional networks VO-HO play a crucial role in forming a structural framework. If funding for this ends in 2017, there is a high risk that these important functions will stop. Can the Secretary of State play a role in breaking the deadlock on funding? To do this requires a lot of creativity and empathy. Let's say 21st century skills in practice. Good luck. Against the huge need for technology are the much worse labour market opportunities for other studies. I've been talking to Mr Bruins about it for a while. About the study psychology we have seen the dramatic reportage in The Monitor. Even the association of psychologists asks to protect people and set a numerus fixus. Despite all this bad news, the number of applications for the psychology programme has risen again, remarkably enough. With Dutch, but also with Germans, because a numerus fixus has come into force in Germany. Can the Netherlands decide in isolation which studies are necessary and effective? Following the motion by myself and Mr Van Meenen, the Minister sent a proposal for a methodology to the Chamber. This is in collaboration with the Association of Colleges, the VSNU, the ISO and the LSVb. How would that proposal work for psychology? Can the Minister indicate which training courses will soon be examined according to this methodology? How do you deal with the fact that the Netherlands will not stop at the border in the twenty-first century? The right choice of study that suits one's talents is also going to lead to lower study dropout. As I said, failure is a permanent, big and dramatic problem. In the HBO we see that one in three students falls out after the first year. Much has already been done for better choice of study and lower dropout, such as matching activities and broad bachelors training. However, much more is needed. Following the document Attack on the outburst of the VVD, PvdA and CDA, ISO, LAKS and the association of deans NVS-NVL together in May 2016, I ask the Secretary of State and the Minister for minimum standards for education and vocational guidance in secondary school, MBO, HBO and university. I'm asking that question with the PvdA and the CDA. Finally. Lifelong learning is very important. In fact, it is perhaps the most important topic today. If you are now 10 years old, so if you were born in 2006, you have a 50% chance of becoming more than 100 years old. You'll have a very long, very versatile and very interesting life for you. During your life, you will certainly often have to change direction and want to look for work. The fact that you learn your life is self-evident, because you've never been out of practice. Learning something new is not only useful and necessary, but also just fun. You see the bright side. I think this will all be self-evident for the generation that is now 10 years old. How different is it now, when you're 40 and your sector changes, or you lose your job? So how do we deal with that? Lifelong learning has not yet come off the ground. It has once been said in the Chamber by, I believe, Mr Mohandis, but I can be wrong, that lifelong learning is more like lifelong laughter. The pronunciation was something else, but I made it more tidy in front of the plenary: a lifetime of laziness. There is no policy, but a chain of experiments and research. The minister tries, as it were, to make an airplane out of an old rambler by sticking wings to it. Then you might think it's gonna fly, but it's not gonna do anything at all. The plans for the deduction of training costs, to convert them to a voucher scheme, fit in this picture. I cannot believe that this will happen without a clear new arrangement. I ask the Minister whether the new regulation will be effective or effective. What's the basis for that amount? What does it mean for specific groups? What does it mean, for example, for the head of finance with an HBO training whose job disappears as a result of automation? What does it mean for pilot training? An important question, which I have heard from Mr Van Dijk before, is whether you should throw away old shoes if you do not have any new ones. The VVD is concerned with the total number of measures that people need to give a springboard instead of just a safety net. We now have a pimped-up "lifelong learning" old-timer with sticky wings, but our children and all of us deserve a new, modern machine that helps us get the best out of ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u158	Are you at the end of your speech with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u159	No, but I'm gonna stop for a second because I see a couple of interrupters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u160	Would you like to finish your speech first? After that, questions can be asked. In fact, the organisation of work seems to have to start reasonably on time. If you still have a single sentence, finish your speech. After that, Mr Rog will be given all the room for his interruption, because he has not yet interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u161	Lifelong learning is my final point. Then I have a final comment. Do you want me to finish everything, or just learn the point of a lifetime?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u162	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u163	I've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u164	Mr Van Dijk always makes that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u165	Then I'm gonna finish the point of lifelong learning. Sit down, gentlemen. There's a laugh now, but I think this point is important, so I'm not gonna take it off in two sentences. Our children and all of us deserve a new, modern machine that helps us get the best out of ourselves, helping us fly. Education should encourage creativity and personal entrepreneurship from the outset. It has to be just that you learn and make a switch or can make it. If you're a hairdresser now, but your arms are chronically affected, what do you do? If you work at a bank that automates your administrative function, what do you do? Learning is preferably not something you do after losing your job, but something you do all the time. How do we create this culture in our education and in our labour market? The VVD has already made several proposals for this: the flex study, the temporary lifting of the application obligation, vouchers, the conversion of the R&D funds (training and development funds). We need a new perspective on learning and not a subsidy jar here or an experiment there. If you want to get to work immediately after your vocational training and finish your further education later, that should be normal. If you want to retrain from one sector to another, that should be normal. If you want to be able to do your education in class but also digitally, that has to be normal. It should be normal and should apply to the administrative employee, the waltz operator and the desk clerk at the bank. It must be normal that you do not only learn at the beginning of your life: you are never really learned out. Our system, however, has something else in its hand. We invest a lot in people when they're young, but then they have to figure it out. This will no longer work in the 21st century, with the emergence of new techniques, globalisation and life expectancy of more than 100 years. You could say that these are all luxurious things, but it is a challenge to flourish in these changes. That is the challenge for all of us, for all 17 million Dutch. This doesn't require educational solutions where you cut and stick to a twentieth-century system and hope it will fly in the twenty-first century. This requires that we work on new certainties, on another curriculum that helps you with a broad personal development, with character. This requires that we work on education that is in line with society and the labour market, which is in line with what is needed. And this requires that we work on a system that puts every student, student and adult at the centre of the system instead of the system. As far as the VVD is concerned, we give the student and Lifelong Learning more direction with a personal education budget. It's not about the institutions being central, it's about you getting more direction. You choose the best education for you when you need it in your life. This is the springboard that every Dutchman should be able to count on. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is the task for education for a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u166	Mr Duisenberg takes us with him in his vision of lifelong learning. I can honestly follow him well in the generalities he says about that. There is now a proposal from the Minister to abolish the training allowance. We don't know what's gonna replace that. We do not know whether that will be such a fine system as Mr Duisenberg is talking about here. Is it acceptable to him to throw away what we have without the ambition he himself has to continue to promote lifelong learning in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u167	This is now a single measure, but it is, of course, a whole package of measures. I really have a lot of questions about this. And I've always learned that you shouldn't throw away old shoes if you don't have a new one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u168	I find that reassuring. Does Mr Duisenberg therefore share the idea that we, as a parliament, precisely because this is such an essential part, should know exactly what we say 'yes' to if we abolish this tax regime and replace it with something new? Does he agree with me that it would be rather wonderful, on the one hand, to increase reach and, on the other hand, to reduce the resources available, as the Minister proposes, as far as we know about her ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u169	My questions already show that a very good story has to be kept. I haven't heard that good story yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u170	I would like to comment on a slightly different aspect. I can totally follow the story. Lifelong learning is important. The tax deduction now amounts to some 218 million. The Minister is making about half of this as a saving. And that is in favour of the education budget. So that's what fills holes with it. So no throwing away old shoes before you get new ones means creating a hole of over 100 million in the education budget. If we keep the old shoes, at least we know we're not doing it in an effective way. We are not helping lifelong learning with this patchwork. It's a weird dilemma. I am very curious to know how Mr Duisenberg intends to get out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u171	It is not 100% established, but it is also said about today's shoes: how it works now is not the way either. I think a lot of people agree that you need to look at it in a different way. But that new way is not clear at all. The VVD also has a lot of questions about this. I suggest that and hope that the Minister will give much more clarity on this in the first term. I would, by the way, be careful not to look at this measure through a straw. That is why I am making this broader argument. It's about the whole range of measures, about what you want to achieve. And what you want to achieve is that learning doesn't end when you finish your studies. No, then your working life starts and you have a whole life to go. Then you just need to be able to learn. That should be normal here, but it should be possible. I just missed that broader agenda, even though experiments have been done and some cut-and-paste work has been done. The task for a new cabinet is to get started with this, because Dutch people need it. We need that agility in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u172	In substance, I can go a long way in Mr Duisenberg's thinking process. But does he agree with me on the result? There is no investment in the Education budget, but cuts are being made, and a further 100 million in savings is added.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u173	I said at the beginning of my speech that, given the overall budget, money will be added. So there is no cutting back. If you look through a straw, you can see that this measure is being cut. That's also in the letter. But a good story will also be needed here. In the end, it's about the effect. The amount in itself is not sacred to me. If you are clear about what you want to achieve and how you do it and then achieve what you want to achieve, then you are already a long way away. Then the question about money is actually of a different order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u174	There are serious concerns about the abolition of training deductions. We fully share these concerns. My question is mainly about the vision of the future presented by Mr Duisenberg. If I sum it up in my own words, that vision of the future means that there must be more flexibility and that you should not assume that you have to go to college immediately after high school and that learning is about to stop because of a failing lifelong learning policy. I am concerned that Mr Duisenberg says: we are going to make it more flexible. You then make much more of your own choices at that time, but the role of the government remains the same, also financially. So the same means are used for it and you see how you divide it about your life, so to speak, until you're 100th. Is that a good summary? Or can I conclude from what Mr Duisenberg said that he wants to invest more in lifelong learning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u175	What matters to me is that they get more direction themselves. Our current system is very supply-oriented. To begin with, you can direct more with the student, with the adult, for example by turning finances into a person. Then it's about a personal education budget. The only thing I see now is that it is not customary to do an extra course and that it is not offered either. Studying part-time is only getting worse. The opportunities for online education, which would be ideal for workers, are also very limited. I note that the current system does not deliver what is needed for lifelong learning. Mr Van Meenen asks whether it means more money. I think we should start by looking at what is needed in a different way and whether our approach from the 20th century is still in line with the 21st century. D66 likes to start with money before there's thought, but I want to think first and then money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u176	I was going to leave it at that, but you will understand, Mr President, that I cannot do that now. I will let Mr Duisenberg's last point go. My question is very specific. If Mr Duisenberg really wants people to be given more direction, there is a standing-in-the-way. You can only apply for a study advance until you're 30.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u177	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u178	It's true. You can't borrow from the government. At least you can borrow tuition from the government, but nothing else. I have previously made proposals to extend the study advance to 30-plussers and to ensure that 30-plussers can also borrow for their livelihood. Doesn't that fit very well in the future? If you really have the direction, there shouldn't suddenly be obstacles to opting for an education after your 30th. How does Mr Duisenberg view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u179	To begin with, that is just one element............................................................................................................................................................................................ But I agree with Mr Van Meenen that you can only borrow the tuition and no more than that. You have to see what it takes, but there are many more bottlenecks now. Training doesn't even get off the ground. To do so, the system must be turned around and the student must be given more control. Take the example of flex study. We started that together with the PvdA and the LSVb. That's one way to get more direction from the student. You decide when you want to study. The direction then lies much more with the student. Then it's not about more or less resources. You're just looking at the system in a different way. I want to continue in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u180	This is a passionate plea for lifelong learning, but does Mr Duisenberg recognise that the policy of this cabinet has made it more of a lifelong loan, because of the system of student debt, the school fees, but also because of the enormous tuition fees for a second study? Mr Duisenberg has made a plea for training at a later age, but it is very sad to see that the number of people undergoing a second study is falling alarmingly, by a third? This also has to do with the huge college member of sometimes €10,000, €20,000, on average €9,000. Even if there's a credit for that, it scares the hell out of me. Mr Duisenberg also knows that institutions sometimes mess with that. It is unclear what an institution's tuition fee is based on. Does Mr Duisenberg agree with me and others that we should take action against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u181	It is a huge achievement in the Netherlands that you can do a bachelor's and a master's degree for a very low tuition fee. 80% of your studies are paid for by the government, by the taxpayer. The choice for a second study is an investment in yourself. At the time, I supported the motion that the institution tuition fees should be transparent. Institutions need to explain that properly. I think there is a lot to do with Mr Van Dijk's crazy examples, but that transparency is very important. A second study, however, I think is an investment in yourself. He's just relentless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u182	Then Mr Duisenberg's speech on lifelong learning is mainly a talk for the stage. He's talking about a 40-year-old guy who decides to go back to school. It may be that at the age of 20, that person did an initial study that now doesn't give him a job. The VVD always thinks that's very important. People need to work and there must be jobs. That's great. I think that's important, too, but shouldn't we discourage that 40-year-old person with a sky-high tuition fee? We must encourage him with an acceptable tuition fee, which in any case does not exceed the real cost. It would be good to maximise that, in the sense that the tuition fees for the second study should not exceed the real costs. Otherwise, I find Mr Duisenberg's plea for lifelong learning an empty shell.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-4.u183	There's nothing I can do about it. Mr Van Dijk has a completely different view of the world than I do. He wants to steer centrally. It is for a number of state-controlled institutions that are going to maximize on cost, but I want more openness and more choice. If there is more openness and choice, even when it comes to the question of where you are going to study and what you are going to do, then that brings the person who is going to learn for a lifetime, the person who has to retrain, far more than the maximum cost of the state-controlled system of Mr Van Dijk. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with what I started: the letter to my daughter. What did that A4 thing mean for my daughter? Of course, you all want to know what she's made of it, so I'm not gonna leave you in suspense anymore. My daughter got wings. She has passionately set up a charity campaign for children in South America, where she had to get started with new ideas. She had to work together and persevere. It inspired her. She has discovered what spark she gets, what good she's at, and which direction she wants to go. I want more of that, not just for her. My party and I want to work on education in which every child and every human being has every opportunity to develop. Education wings for 17 million people in the changing but promising world of the 21st century; so we ensure that the best time for our country lies ahead.
