ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u1	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing a short third term. As announced, I would just like to use it to submit an amended text of the motion that is already on our agenda. In the past week, the operative part has been changed in consultation with the proposers in order to give the cabinet more room for manoeuvre in following up on what is requested in this motion. The scope hasn't changed. If our country is committed to multi-annual efforts to increase the defence budget internationally, then the cabinet should be able to outline to the Chambers in a multiannual financial framework what these efforts look like. This motion does not require too much, it asks for a design of such a framework, a path of how we move towards what has been accepted internationally, the beginning of an insight into it, a dot on the horizon. I'm filing the amended motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u2	The Kuiper c.s. motion. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Europe and the Netherlands are facing increasing international security risks and that, in view of this, the readiness and employability of the Dutch armed forces is at stake;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has to comply with international NATO obligations, which it does not now comply with;]] [[whereas the Netherlands committed itself in Wales in September 2014 to move defence expenditure towards the 2% standard adopted by NATO within 10 years;]] [[Whereas important advisory bodies, experts and both Chambers of the States-General call for a multiannual financial framework demonstrating the policy effort to be up to the level of allegiance obligations by 2024;]] [[believes that a significant commitment can be expected from the Netherlands at the forthcoming NATO summit in Warsaw;]] [[calls on the Government, in the light of the above, to provide the Chambers as soon as possible with an insight into the design of a multiannual financial framework, which makes clear how the Dutch Defence budget will develop in the light of NATO's 2% standard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33694-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. The motion has been taken from our heart. We shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u4	Are there any other Members who would like to speak in the third term? That's the case. I call Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. I hesitated a moment between an explanation of vote and a third deadline, but it is almost the same. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance stands for a balanced approach to defence, diplomacy and development. The 2% standard for defence as a goal to work towards, in this light, we find too little related to content and too far out of line with efforts in the other two areas. That is why my group will not support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. We will wholeheartedly support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. The third deadline and the explanations of vote are now starting to run a little thin. We would like to hear the Minister's opinion on the revised motion before we give an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u8	I agree. I asked if there were any other Members who would like to speak in the third term. This has been interpreted as thinking that I am going to give an explanation of vote. The Minister of Defence also has to speak, but I think I will finish the explanations of vote now. Who else wants to give an explanation of vote? I call Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. A slight confusion, whether or not, but an explanation of vote. With regard to the Kuiper motion under letter K, the SP Group notes that of the total global defence expenditure, NATO already accounts for 70%. The European part of this is $253 billion. That alone is almost four times Russia's defence expenditure. The US spends ten times as much on defence as Russia and almost three times as much as the European part of NATO. When it comes to a more balanced distribution of the burden within NATO, the SP Group concludes that US spending in particular can be significantly reduced. Increasing our defence expenditure, even in the long run, with the risk of a new arms race, is not the answer to the threats of this time, at least as far as the SP Group is concerned. We shall therefore vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u10	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group will vote in favour of this motion. However, we do have a number of reservations, particularly with regard to the word 'obligatory'. No agreement has been made in NATO which amounts to an obligation. It comes down to a directive. At the same time, that is the point of the resolution. The NATO directive refers to 2% in the year 2024. The question then arises as to how, to what extent and in what way the government intends to implement this agreement. The operative part has changed in such a way that we can agree with it and will therefore support this resolution. The government is asked to give the Chambers an insight into a multi-annual financial framework that makes clear how the Dutch defence budget will develop. Once the government has done so, we can then discuss the content of the government and determine to what extent we can support it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll take a look around. We have now had both the speech and the explanations of vote. I know that at least one explanation of vote will be given to us after the answer from the Minister of Defence, but perhaps even more. I give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. Last week the motion was dissuaded in a slightly different version. I think that my colleague from the Foreign Office also indicated at that time that he was sympathetic to it. I have two preliminary remarks to make in response to the comments that have just been made. Firstly, a more balanced distribution of the burden within NATO is a noble ambition. The reality is that there is a number of allies that have to always step in for the Netherlands, among others, with critical capacities. There can therefore be no reduction in defence budgets because of the conditions in the world. Secondly, in order to reassure the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the integrated approach is clearly the starting point for all the efforts proposed by the Foreign Affairs and Defence Ministers. Then I'll deal with this motion in particular. Last week I also outlined the multiannual perspective, with the steps that are in the pipeline and have already been taken. I have also outlined that in recent years we have been taking interesting steps forward in the context of adding additional budget to the defence budget, but that we are not yet there. Budget was added in 2015 and also to the 2016 budget. I am now negotiating the 2017 budget. That's an important moment. I can't anticipate that. I'll inform the Chamber about that during the next Princess' Day. The fact is that the cabinet has made it very clear that cuts are no longer on the table. We outlined that multi-annual perspective. The practical implementation depends on the financial possibilities and also on the international security situation. I have to stick to that. However sympathetic, I cannot accept the motion and must therefore discourage it. It is clear that the cabinet is going to work on a multiannual perspective. That is what I have repeatedly said to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u13	In previous discussions we have had on this subject, the Minister has always said that she finds these signals in support of her policy. I can't help but imagine that in her heart she might still think that way. However, this is an appeal to the cabinet over several cabinet periods to give the Chamber an insight into how we should look at such a multi-annual financial framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u14	Mr President, may I respond one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u15	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u16	We also discussed this last week. With a view to the March 2017 elections, it is obvious that further discussion will take place, for example at the formation table. The request to provide an insight into the finances and plans of the cabinet or successor of this cabinet for defence over a number of years naturally affects all government expenditure. A motion such as this should therefore mainly be tabled during the General Political Reviews or the Financial Reviews. This really goes beyond the debate we had last week. This does not alter the fact that I consider the idea behind it to be very sympathetic, because I have also made it very clear that steps are being taken, but that we are really not there yet when it comes to putting the housekeeping books of the armed forces in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-8.u17	We shall now proceed to the vote.
