ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u1	I would like to welcome the guests in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate through other media. I would also like to welcome the leaders, their support and the Members of Parliament. We have eight speakers with four minutes each. I propose that we interrupt in two during the first term of the Chamber. For the first term of the rulers, we will agree on the number of interruptions later. Can the members agree to that? I hope to lead the debate a little tight in view of the clock. There is a further vote to be taken today, and there is another debate this evening. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Omtzigt, who speaks on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u2	Mr. Chairman. The chaos for thezzp'er is complete. The Law DBA (Law on Deregulation Assessment of Employment Relations) had only two objectives: to clarify who is fiscally zzp'er and who is not, and to combat bogus self-employment. Both targets have not been met. For a working Law DBA you need a Tax Administration that can give such a clear definition of labour law that all clients know what to do to work withzzp'ers. The Secretary of State has convinced the Chamber that the Tax Office could do this, but you shouldn't really want this. The Boot Committee wrote about it. With the introduction of the DBA Act, the Tax Administration has faced a very difficult task. The Committee concluded that the ex ante review within the civil framework could not be carried out at all. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State to this serious conclusion. We've talked about the DBA before in this room. It has taken a long time, but at last the Secretary of State seems to have realised that the implementation is not going so well. Entrepreneurs don't get enough security from the Tax Administration and so they don't hirezzp'ers. That's great if that means more employees are hired, but it's very undesirable if entrepreneurs go to payrolling on a large scale or work through e.g. false constructions. Meanwhile, tens of thousands ofzzp'ers, and perhaps even more, have far fewer assignments or they're even completely out of assignments. They and their families pay the bill for this failing policy. During economic recovery, they face a sharp decline in income. Perhaps this is the clearest proof that a government cannot directly create jobs with taxes, but can destroy the work ofzzp'ers. Has the Secretary of State solved all this with the second progress report including VVD campaign film? No, the chaos is complete. There is a VVD-campaign film about the DBA, but the lyrics are simply incorrect. It is new that the VVD admits this time before the elections that its campaign videos are wrong. We have now had four different definitions of the policy of tolerance, an emergency grip without a legal basis, so there is no guarantee whatsoever. Instead of action, the Secretary of State and the Minister announce a new investigation and clients are again in uncertainty and therefore do not hirezzp'ers. I urge the government to put forward a clear agenda immediately. It could consist of the following points. One: the immediate adoption of the recommendations of the Boot Committee, with the exception of assessing whether activities are part of the company's core business. That recommendation could be so far-reaching that it should not be considered for a few years. Two: define the tolerated situation in a policy decision. There must be formal ground to not maintain. That can prevent arbitrariness. Three: begin immediately to maintain against false self-employment. There's only one legal line, and that's whether someone's too bad faith. Moreover, we suspect that there are more than ten clients involved. Four: clarify labour legislation on matters of authority and personal labour. This can also be done by making fiscal exceptions, for example in fictitious service relationships. If you are allowed to replace yourself with the client, in the eyes of the CDA group, you are not immediately azzp'er. The proposal should be ready and sent to the Chamber on 1 February. This can also be dealt with first in tax law through the tax employment relationship and, if necessary, only afterwards in labour law. You shouldn't lift your own problems over the election. Five. Make a plan to make hiring employees attractive. Fix the WWZ problems. Think of a shorter pay-as-you-go payment in case of illness. Now you're almost crazy as an employer when you offer someone a permanent contract. We should be rewarding that. I would like to hear a response from both the Secretary of State and the Minister on all these five points. These points are not new. They all come from parliamentary questions and the three motions from the DBA debate in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u3	Will you come to a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u4	If the government had listened then and started a solution, the problem would not have gotten so out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u5	Mr. Chairman. In recent weeks, I have been wondering how often Eric Wiebes still remembers 26 January 2016. The DBA Act was dealt with that day in the Upper Chamber. The senators of D66, Christian Union, GroenLinks and the Party for Animals warned him: do not do this now. Today we see what has come of that. Self-employed people are losing jobs, 62.000 by now. Clients have dropped out massively. It's chaos. What does the Secretary of State actually look back on this? Does he think that the implementation and implementation of this law were careful? After months of denial, the Secretary of State has finally taken action. He admits his previous line isn't working. Better late than never, let's just say. But unfortunately, something broken into a thousand pieces isn't one-two-three glued. Now it is necessary to repair with steam and boiling water, while the confidence is gone. That is why we have already heard four definitions of malice in two weeks. The VVD'er Wiebes says other things than Secretary of State Wiebes. Is the Secretary of State going to apologize today for that potty VVD campaign movie, which also turned out to be wrong? Clients don't know what they're up to. According to the Secretary of State, you're already malicious if you could have known anything. Then there's an employment relationship. However, that is still grey. There really is no compliance officer at a multinational thinking "now I'm doing it again: hiringzzp'ers." Is there going to be a formal decision before Christmas in which the Secretary of State clearly states how he upholds the law and when you are not malicious? Mr Omtzigt also asked. Then there can be clarity. The government is now going to re-examine the concepts of "personal labor" and "government relations," in time for a subsequent coalition agreement. Does this mean that we will have that review before January, so that the Chamber can talk about it before the elections? That review is wise, but I don't think it's enough now. A person is still regarded as a self-employed person if there is no employment. Thus, "service relationship" is still the norm and "entrepreneurship" as a kind of derogation. Why can't they be equal and exist side by side? If a person is a self-employed person, by definition, there is no longer an employment relationship. For example, you give entrepreneurship a role in the weighting and prevent confusion and hassle, for example for the musician who invades one day in an orchestra and teaches the other day as an independent teacher or for the general practitioner who observes on Monday and observe the rest of the week occasionally. The current form gives a lot of fuss, not only tax, but also insurance, for example. Is the Secretary of State prepared to explore how entrepreneurship can exclude an employment relationship? In advance, I am asking for a short-term solution that gives certainty to the group of self-employed professionals that is now being hit so hard. I found the solution mentioned by Mr Ruts in the hearing interesting: in the case of a contract with an hourly rate of more than €40 or with a duration of less than 500 hours, the DBA Act does not apply. Then you've got a green light. This could help in the short term. Of course, if you do not meet (one of) those criteria, you may, but then there is the Law DBA. It's kind of a patch, but isn't that something that could help? It's not ideal, but it's an attempt to glue some shrapnel. The main problem, of course, lies in the distinction between self-employed and employees. This is particularly a difficult problem due to the uneven growth elsewhere: pay-as-you-go payments, high financial burdens, rigid dismissal rules. Make it attractive for employers to keep employees in employment. If you want to tackle false self-employment, discouragingzzp'ers is not the right way to go. Azzp fine or the DBA Act doesn't work. The cabinet must ensure that employership is also attractive. Unfortunately, that assignment lies with the new cabinet. That is the starting point of my group: if you opt for entrepreneurship, there must be no barriers. For those who want to work as an employed person, we must make this much easier, even with an indefinite contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u6	On 18 November the second progress report came. I saw from Mr Van Weyenberg's response to Twitter that he was very enthusiastic and that he offered enough clarity. What happened after that that's not clear anymore? For me it was clip-and-ready: just get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u7	It was very good that the Secretary of State no longer simply kept the sway that we should explain it better. The Secretary of State admitted it didn't work. I thought that was a win. He wanted to suspend enforcement. I thought that was wise when it comes to people who aren't malicious. Since then, however, we have had three or four different definitions. So the confusion is still complete. I thought the direction and recognition was really a big step forward, but we must now make sure that it makes a difference in practice. I think Mrs Vos has also seen that a lot of companies and clients still do not dare. I call on them, with Mrs Vos, not to be too afraid, but I call on the Cabinet to take away the source of that fear. That's where it starts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u8	Was the definition of malice, which was mentioned in Annex 3, sufficiently clear for Mr Van Weyenberg? That's what I thought I'd get out of his reaction at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u9	Well, what was there, I haven't understood since I've seen all the other definitions from after. At first, there were only ten of them. Then I thought it was clear to a lot of clients. Later, it said again, unless you could have known there was an employment. I've asked questions about that. I don't know, but suppose Mrs. Vos works at ING's or HEMA's Compliance. Would she have thought: I think I could know something, that makes sense, I dare again? Unfortunately, the practice is that there is no clarity. I look forward to trying with Mrs Vos to take a step forward today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u10	Mr. Chairman. We are again here to talk about a law that has made it very difficult for a large number ofzzp'ers. We're also here to talk about bullshit contracts, exploitation fees and employers' excuses. Delaying the enforcement of the DBA Act should result in employers/clients like thunder, as of yesterday, simply doing business withzzp'ers again. For the PvdA, the letter of 18 November 2016 is completely clear. I tried to ignore the noise as much as possible. I've been talking to a lot ofzzp'ers in the last few months. They were angry, irritated, but there were alsozzp'ers who have been offered a job to their pleasant surprise and now retire. How many people are we talking about right now? The Intelligence Group and Pierre Spaninks come on the basis of their own research on 60,000zzp'ers who lost assignments. Why can they estimate that and not the government? For example, it is not clear from the answers we received yesterday. It seems crucial to me to know how many people we're talking about before the recalibrate that's going to happen. People who have lost jobs, who have been given jobs, and especially people who continue to be happy without a model contract. Those numbers are really important. Too many members of VNO-NCW withdraw orders tozzp'ers for fear of possible post-taxation. The letter from the government clearly shows that this is not necessary. If we want to take this club seriously again as an interlocutor, including with regard to future labour market legislation, they will have to hirezzp'ers again from yesterday. Does the government agree with the PvdA Group that the members of VNO-NCW now have the fastest solution forzzp'ers, because they just have to stop twisting around this law? The government is perfectly clear, now just hire it. There are a number of clubs that benefit from the noise. Hugo-Jan Ruts, thezzp connoisseur, wrote yesterday on ZiPeconomy who the winners of this law are. These are the payroll and mediation companies and the ABU, the temporary employment agencies. Last week I asked the representatives of the payroll companies what their increase in turnover had been. They mumbled that they couldn't tell me. Well, they're just in the FD cozy with the fastest climbers this year, with percent more revenue. I've also seen terrible contracts in public service broadcasting. The financial problems of public service broadcasting, which hopefully comes back with money after the elections in 2017, will be passed on to the creators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u11	Mrs Vos now raises the specific point that payrollers are the winners of this law. Can I make something out of that? In the previous debate, it was proposed to carry out an earlier motion by Mrs Hammer of the Labour Party, which would make rewards equivalent if they were worked through payroll. That motion was supported by the entire Chamber, except by the Labour Party and the VVD. Could this motion, if it were retabled, perhaps by Mr Bashir, now count on the support of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u12	No, not yet. I believe that all this will end up in the review of employment contracts after the elections. You know how I feel about payroll companies. Now it's too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u13	First, you say the payrollers are the big winners. After that, if you say you don't want to do anything about it, it's a little crocodile tears. But it is clear: the Labour Party has apparently also put this on the long list of subjects from this period that are simply pushed forward. I regret that because I see Mrs Vos as an ally on this point. I hear she barks, but doesn't bite. I don't think that's so strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u14	There was no question, but Mrs Vos may respond if she so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u15	No, I'm not. I would now like to turn to Mr Bashir's question, which is probably similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u16	I don't really have a question, but more of a comment. The same words were in that motion. When I filed it, Mrs. Fox voted against it. It's really cheap to have a little talk here about how it should be. Then vote for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u17	Having a lot of criticism of companies doesn't mean that you have to abolish them. I also have a lot of criticism of the noise they have caused. If you google "zzp" and "DBA" now, all temp agencies and payroll companies come out that provide information that just doesn't add up. That does not mean that they should be abolished, but I do think they should communicate normally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u18	Nor did I say that they should be abolished. I simply tabled a motion which the Labour Party also tabled a while ago. I said that this motion should be carried out now, because that motion was adopted by the Chamber. Mrs. Vos voted against it. She can have a cheap chat here, but she'd better vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u19	We voted against it because it was not the time. You know what that's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u20	I'd like to get on with this. When will that time be? If Mrs Vos is blaming all those companies, while the law now provides clarity, that they are not giving people orders, is that the exact same thing as saying you're against something, but you don't want to do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u21	I blame the companies, the clients, the members of VNO-NCW, who have always done business directly withzzp'ers but who suddenly thought they had to do so through temporary employment agencies and constructions, that they are now withdrawing their assignments. My main criticism is about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u22	I follow Mr Bashir's words: I think this is a little cheap from Mrs Vos. While there is now clarity about this, she blames others for not giving these people orders. At the same time, she blames the payroll companies for making money out of it. But she can do something about it. Right now, she's just refusing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u23	Again no question, but Mrs. Fox may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u24	I believe that the members of VNO-NCW, i.e. the sponsors, the employers, are the first to be able to do something about this. They may also decide not to go back on payroll constructions; that was not necessary before. They can direct orders tozzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u25	I do not follow this line of reasoning very well. I think you're turning things around. You blame the clients for not giving orders. The clients do not give orders because they experience uncertainty about the DBA Act. They are afraid of post-taxes. They think, "I'm gonna be stuck with constructions I don't want." We need to take that away. And the only ones who can, of course, are us. That's not a reproach to the principals. Don't you just look at yourself...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u26	Would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u27	Wouldn't Mrs. Vos better look at herself instead of blaming clients for something that is the result of PvdA policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u28	No, I'm not just looking at myself. That's what we're looking at. That's what the letter looked at. Mr Van Weyenberg has said it well. The letter is quite clear: the employers, the clients, must now simply give orders tozzp'ers and do not need any intermediate structures and intervention models at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u29	But there is still a great deal of uncertainty. You just mistakenly spoke of Annex 3, but that is Annex 4 to the letter, about the evildoers. The answers given by the Secretary of State to my questions have only given more clarity, so that the clients still wonder where they stand and how to deal with them. Then they get the blame from your side that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u30	Would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u31	A criticism by Mrs Vos of the clients is absolutely not on the table, so Mrs Vos does not want to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u32	I don't quite understand the question. I'm clear about what I think. I think the letter and the annex on malice was quite clear. I think clients with that definition can and should just get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u33	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u34	I would have stayed with the public service contracts. There are financial problems. I get that, because there's a lot of cuts. After 2017, hopefully there will be money again. However, it doesn't give a pass to wallow it on creators. I advise the boss of public service broadcasting to talk to BNR. The editor-in-chief of BNR simply hireszzp'ers. He always has. He did worry, but didn't pass his uncertainty on tozzp'ers. It's possible. If your organization is funded with public money, you have to be extra careful and do not propose weird contracts tozzp'ers. If you already realize that there is no entrepreneurship, you should not immediately offer thatzzp'er a contract of employment. According to the PvdA, the Boot Committee has made a thorough analysis of what went wrong with the DBA Act. The Committee has also described, on the basis of case law, how to distinguish between an independent entrepreneur and an employee. I think this can be even better than with those terms from 1907, but we're going to see that. How is the government going to apply the ladder of the Boot Commission in enforcement or review? Do the criteria of the Boot Committee provide a good framework to determine whether you are benevolent? If you meet most of the criteria of the Boot Committee, are you sure you don't need to use a model agreement? That was not entirely clear to me. If you're an entrepreneur and want to decide for yourself, don't you have to have a model agreement? The PvdA allows the enforcement to deal with malicious people to continue. I can't imagine there's only ten of them. When I look at the list of the transport sector and the package delivery, I think there are a lot more. If we don't do anything from now on, we'll wake up next year in a country with American states: people will have to make ends meet through low-paid chores and only the top layer of smart entrepreneurs will have it right. That's what you get from the PVV's late-but-wave attitude and, as I understand it, also from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u35	Mr. Chairman. The DBA Act failed; we can say that. I can still hear Mr Zijlstra say: if the DBA Act does not work, he must leave the table. That's what he said a few months ago. How's that with the VVD? Almost everyone wants this law off the table now. VNO-NCW, SMBs Netherlands, ONL, ZZP Netherlands, Building the Netherlands, Self-employed Building and even Professor Stevens want to get rid of it. The cure is worse than the ailment. 71% of companies want to get rid of it and think that the DBA Act should be removed. Yesterday we received a letter from ZZP Nederland. It said that there would be a complete disaster. It's an unsustainable situation. ZZP The Netherlands even expects 100,000zzp'ers to run out of assignments. 100,000 unnecessary unemployed! 100,000 victims of a wrong law! Shouldn't the Secretary of State care? The fight against false self-employment has resulted in a fight against independence. That's never supposed to happen. One million self-employed people are now being saddled with unworkable model contracts to trace a few bogus self-employed people. The DBA Act has created a lot of uncertainty and unrest, which means that clients and contractors no longer know where they stand. Clients have become shy and contractors are obliged to go payrolls. Can the freelance cameraman make any other documentaries as a zzp'er later? Can the retired teacher still function as a substitute? Can the stucco still be hired by a contractor? Can an ICT operator enter into another maintenance contract with a computing centre? Is the interim manager allowed to run another department? In all these cases there is a relationship of authority, there is no question of free replacement and one is paid for paid labour. So according to the DBA Act, these aren'tzzp'ers. End of exercise! Why don't you go payroll, it's the motto. And the payrollers and detachers of the Netherlands are celebrating. Thezzp'er loses his freedom and may hand over 30% to 40% of his income to intermediaries. I ask the Secretary of State: is that the intention? Of course, fraud, exploitation, abuse, repression and forced independence must be tackled. We don't need a Law DBA for that. That's a matter of maintenance. False self-employment must be tackled. I refer to the tomato picker who has to work for €2 per hour, the home helpers who continue to do the same work after being fired and the construction worker who is replaced by a so-called self-employed Pole. They're not self-employed, and everyone can see that. In order to tackle this bogus self-employment, all self-employed people are now suspected. That's gotta stop. The field is screaming for clarity. You can't achieve that by suspending enforcement, as is happening now. That only prolongs and worsens the uncertainty and the unrest. With the withdrawal of the VAR two beautiful things were lost: the certainty in advance and the simplicity in the execution. We got an impossible freak in return and that's called the DBA. With the DBA, we threw away the baby with the bath water. The PVV therefore wants the DBA Act to be repealed immediately, the VAR to be revived and the Secretary of State to return to the drawing table. What's to be done? Move into the DBA to avoid further unrest and uncertainty. The longer this continues, the greater the damage. Let the VAR resurrect and also use a few additional criteria as indicated by the Boat Committee, such as the amount of the tariff and the duration and extent of the assignment. Entrepreneurship and model contracts are unnecessary if they are met. In other words, provide clarity and certainty in the short term when hiring a self-employed person. We need to know where we stand. But do it quickly, because the longer one waits, the greater the damage. Therefore, withdraw the law immediately. Better half-way than completely lost!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u36	And that concludes your speech. I see there's a question from Mrs. Vos. That'll be her second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u37	How many do I have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u38	Members have two interruptions in two. I see Mrs. Fox is abandoning her interruption. I call Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u39	Mr. Chairman. In 2010 I entered the Chamber as a former entrepreneur in order to be able to give the large group of self-employed people a stage as well. I have struggled in the preparation of this debate with the input I wanted to write. Did I have to go into the past again, how this law was created in cooperation with the market? Or did I have to remind parties again how they voted on this law in the Second or in the Upper House? I'm not gonna do that because there's a problem that we all want to solve. As far as I'm concerned, it's a common task to do that for all those hard-working ZPs, because that's what I call them: independent professionals in the country. Self-employed professionals are entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs think in solutions where they encounter a problem. The VVD does that, too, always. That's why I feel so at home with the VVD. The last few months have been intense for the ZPs. Here in this house, but also outside, we all know by now that the DBA Act has led to wrong effects due to the collapse of the VAR. Clients dropped out and contractors lost orders. That was never the intention of this law. The last debate made it painfully clear that a 1907 law is obstructive; that law no longer fits in with 2016. The round table that was organized made it clear that the guests at the table were concerned, but also that they were willing to think about solutions. I would like to express my appreciation from this place for the fact that, despite the various contributions, they showed that they wanted to think along and participate. All kinds of solutions have been put forward in recent weeks. The question I have asked myself every time is: are we going to cause more unrest here or is this really the solution? I can't give the answer to that yet. Any solution that was put forward may have seemed sympathetic, but it turned out to have something in it, which could once again create uncertainty. We have to prevent that. There must now be a period of rest for clients and contractors. The VVD hopes that this debate will provide that peace. Carefulness and taking the time to come up with a fundamental solution are paramount. The VVD wants to look at the basis of the problem: the 1907 law. That is why I come with the following questions, first of all to the Secretary of State. The concept of malice seems to create uncertainty. However, the letter on this matter seems clear to me. How does the Secretary of State intend to bring this information to the attention of the ZP's and the clients? In his letter, the State Secretary states that at least until 1 January 2018 will not be maintained. He links that to the re-evaluation of labour law. Will the Secretary of State confirm that this safeguard applies even after 1 January 2018, as long as labour law has not been reviewed? And if it doesn't succeed in 2017, will it be indicated in time in 2017 that there is no longer any maintenance? Then I come to my questions to the Minister. The Minister has recently shown that he is prepared to tackle outdated legislation. He mentioned the outdated legislation of the dismissal law of 1946 and the legislation of 1983 on youth pay. Can the Minister state what trial he intends to review the 1907 law? Is the Minister prepared to organise an exercise with the organisations concerned, who have shown their willingness to participate and participate, and to involve all the solutions put forward in finding the solution? Then I have another afterburner for the Secretary of State. It seems to be a well-defined group of clients who no longer provide contracts. Is it possible that the Secretary of State will once again deal with these clients? Finally, I would like to stress once again how important this huge group of hardworking ZPs, who also fought through the crisis period, is to the Netherlands. Give them room; they deserve it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u40	I call Mrs Schouten for her second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u41	I have one simple question: does the VVD still support the DBA Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u42	I indicated, also in a previous debate, that the DBA is not a goal, but a means. We note that the law as it stands does not do what it should do. At least the side effects reveal themselves in a broad sense. I have also indicated this in the reply to the question of labour law. I think we should find the solution in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u43	Labour law does not do anything with the DBA Act; it then simply remains in place. I note that the VVD remains behind the DBA Act. My second question is what is Mr Ziengs' Christmas ceremonies to all thosezzp'ers who, even with the supposed clarity that the Secretary of State would have given on enforcement, are still not getting orders. Adapting labour law may take up to a year. What is the Christmas spirit of the VVD to thezzp'ers in terms of the clarity that must now be offered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u44	It's such a shame that we focus on that Law DBA every time. Mr Schouten knows very well that it is indeed in labour law, as I have just said. Following the previous debate, a letter from the Secretary of State states that there is no maintenance. That is the message that has been sent, and it seems that that message has not been clear enough. My request to the Members of this House is this. We can make so much fuss about it, but let us now focus on that letter that has been written and which states that there is no enforcement. That message is well given, but apparently it is unclear. Let us look for information, and let us ensure that the people of Europe now take up this message on Christmas Days, so that they know that they can simply take up their assignments without danger of being maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u45	Mr Van Weyenberg, for his second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u46	I am still a little surprised by the answer to Mrs Schouten's question. Apparently, Mr Ziengs' brief this morning stated that it was all the fault of Minister Asscher, not of Secretary of State Wiebes of the VVD, and that it is all very well for the short term. 'Cause I'm surprised. That Law DBA, I say to Mr Ziengs, is the reason why they have lost more than 70,000 assignments. Of course we have to look at labour law, but Mr Ziengs is just saying that all the suggestions to meet the need in the short term are causing more unrest. I have news for Mr Ziengs: the unrest is there. My question, along with Mrs Schouten's, is not what we are going to do in the long term. That is also important, but what are we going to do in the short term? Or is Mr Ziengs' message today: we're throwing another VVD-campaign on it, but otherwise it's all good?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u47	Once again, it is about the peace that we must create with each other. I also appeal to Mr Van Weyenberg to do so. We can always bring together solutions for the short term; a patch. But there will still have to be a structural solution in the long term. Let us indeed focus on the letter that has been written and which states that there is no maintenance. Let's go to the clients. That is what I am asking in my contribution to the Secretary of State: sit down with that group and make it clear that they will be able to give orders again in the coming years, as long as that is not done. Let us not be hasty. That's my message. I say to my colleague: go along with that now and let us try to get some rest in the coming period, without us going to poke again and again. That really doesn't create peace. ZPs don't get orders through that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u48	Now, in fact, Mr Ziengs' message is that parties who are concerned with all those ZPs are the source of the problem. Of course, there must be peace. Of course we have to do things in the long term. But there isn't that peace yet. I have only one suggestion for Mr Ziengs. Read your own election cards again: not push forward, but tackle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u49	I didn't get the impression there was a question in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u50	I'm standing here popping my ears. It was Mr Ziengs who voted against the motion in September to look at labour law, together with the entire VVD Group. Now he says: labour law must be looked at. It was completely wiped off the table at the time: you didn't even have to look at it. Now he says, "There's nothing going on." The studies indicate that tens of thousands of people are given fewer assignments. That happened before there were parliamentary debates and parliamentary questions. The group chairman of Mr Ziengs has said that this law should be removed if it does not work. Now Mr Ziengs says: the law does not do what it has to do. Those are other words for "unfunctioning." Then there must be at least an idea of what should happen in the coming months. What is the VVD's plan to take up the new cabinet between now and then, because until then, the VVD happens to be in the government too, making sure that ZPs do not suffer from this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u51	Here again the appeal to Mr Omtzigt. He's right. In that previous debate he has indeed tabled motions on labour law. We did not support them, that is correct. At that time, we said: there will have to be a broader discussion about it. It was later established that it had to be sought in this direction. That's why my input is so decorated. I say to Mr Omtzigt that I hope that we can now create a period of peace with each other. That's what I'm asking for, and that's what the ZPs are asking for. People just want to get back to work. Everything we do in the short term, all those things we want to put on as a patch, is not going to work. That doesn't give ZPs jobs. Let's try to create peace in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u52	It is really unheard of what a Member of Parliament is doing here who himself wanted to request this debate! He wanted to request this debate, and now he says in the debate that he himself wanted to request it, to his colleagues that they should not talk about it. There's a big problem with ZPs. They are not given orders by a law which the VVD Group and its group chairman say does not work. If a law doesn't work, there's one thing you shouldn't do, namely close your eyes and head in the sand. However, that is exactly what Mr Ziengs is doing here. Will he please take his head out of the sand and see what he wants to do between now and the elections to ensure that the sharp edges of this law go off? Can we expect a proposal from him on this? Or is his only proposal that we should not say anything about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u53	I have already said in my speech that we should use the next period to talk to everyone who had an input at the round table and all those who sat at the round table and sent those e-mails. With them, we need to see how we can ultimately come to a real solution. I understand very well: we are going towards elections and we are all looking at a million zp'ers, who will also be voters, but I also call on Mr Omtzigt...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u54	A point of order from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u55	We are having a debate here on a very big problem. Now here is a colleague of mine, everyone who says with him that there are problems, blacking out that we are doing election stunts here. I find that appalling, and I am going to ask Mr Ziengs to withdraw this accusation to all my fellow Members, including Mrs Schouten. I really don't think this is a level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u56	That's too short a turn. I have indicated that I understand very well that there is a huge arsenal of people where we can possibly get voters. If that affects Mr Van Weyenberg, I would like to apologize to my colleagues. I didn't mean to. I'd like to rest on behalf of the VVD, that we get these people back on assignments. That's the call I'm making. That requires a process and that process must be careful. It doesn't have to be a patch. That is why I say: let us choose that direction with each other, so that clients can again give orders to the contractors. That's how we get the case back on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u57	Is this response sufficient, Mr Van Weyenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u58	Apology accepted. I think the shared goal of all of us is that these people can get back to work. Let's focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u59	It's a normal procedure here that you identify a problem and have a hearing afterwards. We've had two on the DBA Act. Some seven sets of parliamentary questions have also been put here by colleagues. There has already been a debate. Then it really is total poverty when the VVD sees as a solution, after everything that has already happened here: we do not support any of the solutions mentioned and ask this poor Secretary of State of the VVD House once again to sit down with all these groups. Politics is there to make decisions, not to send the Secretary of State to another table he's been to ten times. So my question is: what solution does the VVD Group stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u60	I think I have been perfectly clear on that. If you make a choice out of the many solutions put forward, you will find that every solution that has been put forward always has a edge. That is why I also appeal to everyone: let us now bring all these parties to the table of the Secretary of State in the short term, so that the solution can finally emerge there. That's gotta be possible, right? We see each other with a letter that is not maintained. I think the call was clear. I have replied and I am making the appeal once again: let us make sure that before Christmas we create the peace that Mr Schouten was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u61	In reply to today's parliamentary questions, the Secretary of State writes that he has sat around the table with about everyone. This can be confirmed by all these organisations. He's come to the conclusion what he's supposed to do. Now the VVD Group says that it sees vague edges on all the proposals it has seen, but that the law does not work and that therefore everyone now has to sit down again. After six months in this Chamber with parliamentary questions and after a debate in which the VVD Group did not support any motion for a change, can I expect the VVD Group to at least say: these two or three things must be done in the short term? Mr Ziengs says what needs to be done in the long term, but he does not come out with the PvdA Group. We'll see about that. At least say something about enforcement, about the policy decision and about the legal certainty ofzzp'ers. Parliamentary questions do not lead to uncertainty, that is the fact that the VVD publishes a campaign film and gives three different definitions of what is evil, so that no one knows what is being maintained. That is the cause of the problem. What solution does the VVD have for that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u62	I note that the same questions are asked every time with a whole speech. I can give the same answer to that every time. I'm gonna call for this construction anyway. During the past period, there has also been a change of input from parties who had contact with the Ministry at the time. Over the past week, I have also seen solutions come across from organisations which, after examining labour law, came up with a different interpretation of possible solutions. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to put that group back on the table and see whether these new solutions can ultimately be the solution. That is the answer I can give in full clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u63	I've rarely heard anyone talk with that much flour in their mouth. The VVD used to stand for the entrepreneur and thezzp'er, someone who wanted to make some of his life. Now there are 100,000zzp'ers at home, without orders. They are going to be at the aid desk, and Mr Ziengs says: let's keep our peace, let's look at labour law and let's look at it again next year. He's not gonna get that peace of mind back. People want to abide by the law, even if it is not enforced. Fortunately, people in the Netherlands all have such an implant. Even the industry associations call on their members not to employzzp'ers. Maintaining that has nothing to do with it. I have a question for Mr Ziengs. Proposals have been made by Mr Boot and also by Professor Stevens for practical solutions: go back to the VAR and draw up a few criteria, such as that with an hourly rate above €40 you are azzp'er, that you don't have to have a model contract and that you can get started. Those are practical solutions to pull that off. Mr Ziengs is going to postpone it and watch 100,000 people, his supporters, disappear into assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u64	And the question is: are you prepared to respond to these wishes in this way? At least, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u65	I think we're actually on the same page. All the issues that have just been mentioned concern solutions that have been put forward. I asked the Secretary of State to use these different solutions as soon as possible. The solutions in the round table conversation were very diverse. That's where the parties disagreed. My appeal to the Secretary of State is therefore to bring together precisely the parties who have come up with these solutions and with new solutions in order to arrive at a joint solution. So, yes, we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u66	We agree, but Mr Zijlstra, the group chairman of Mr Ziengs, said: if this law does not work, he must be dismissed. That's what he said last September. Now everyone says "VNO-NCW," "Self-employed Building," "MBK Nederland" and "Building the Netherlands," I've already mentioned the list. Why doesn't the VVD argue for that here, why doesn't she say thank you for the mistake, we misjudged it, we left our ears hanging too much to the PvdA, we withdraw this law, we go back to the VAR and we go back to the drawing table? Then you bring the rest back and make sure that those 100,000zzp'ers can get back to work on January 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u67	Too bad, I thought we agreed. At that round table it was clearly stated that no party, except one, wanted the VAR back. After all, that did not provide a solution. We can argue in favour of this, but it was precisely in that round table that it emerged that they did not want to do so. Then I wonder what else we should do. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State: let us create peace for thezzp'ers, let us make sure that in the coming period the parties are properly used to get to the table to come to a solution with the various solutions provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u68	If necessary, a second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u69	You may now use your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u70	I was also paying close attention, but in that round table conversation people agreed that we are on a dead end with the DBA. It doesn't work. The VAR is also not sacred and that is why the majority of this Chamber, including the PVV, voted for this DBA. In any case, the VAR provided the client with security in advance and was simple in the execution for the Tax Administration. Those two elements are like the kid with the bath water thrown overboard. As a result, the clients are shy and all thosezzp'ers are without a job. Anything better than the DBA, that doesn't have to be the VAR for me, but the DBA has to be off the table before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u71	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u72	If that's what you're arguing for, you're a guy. Back to the VAR for a moment, back to the drawing table so that we can get a real solution to the false self-employment. Now all the self-employed are the victims of this moloch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u73	We can now declare the VAR sacred, but the DBA is only a law the VAR has been taken out of. That is why we should not declare the VAR sacred, as I have just argued. We need to look at the solutions put forward. Professor Boot said at the round table in his report of the DBA that there are quite some things in it that are not going well, but suggested to improve it: make sure it finally works. I do not know whether that is the immediate solution, but I do know that so many solutions have been put forward that it will not work if we do it quickly now. This creates more unrest, and that is why I ask colleagues to make intensive use of the time to get the parties to the table. That gives you peace, and that's my call. Let's do that with each other so we can make sure they get jobs again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u74	A follow-up question from Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u75	We're not gonna get that peace of mind, because there's no time to waste. There's gonna be 100,000 self-employed people without assignments. I do not know if Mr Ziengs has been out of work or sales for a year or six months when he was an entrepreneur, but then you are bankrupt. Then you're on welfare and you can go eat your house, then you've got a problem! We are all fighting here to ensure that those 100,000 self-employed people will not be on welfare, with all the misery with their homes and what's more. We are fighting for them not to sleep under the bridge thanks to the VVD. That's what we fight for. The VVD says: let's not make hasty decisions, let's keep the peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u76	And your follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u77	It doesn't help people. Who are you standing up for, anyway? For the self-employed or for the PvdA with whom you happen to be in a forced marriage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u78	Ifzzp'ers see us fighting this way on this subject, there will be no peace. That's the reason for my call. Let us take time for that. We've read the Secretary of State's letter saying he's not going to keep it. Let him communicate that to clients and contractors, let's find each other in there. That's my message.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u79	Mr Ziengs has been speaking for a long time now, but we all know what the problem is. The problem is that there is a lot of uncertainty. The real entrepreneurs are out of contracts. Mr Ziengs started by saying that he likes solutions, so he joined the VVD. I have listened carefully all the time, but I have not heard any solution. What is Mr Ziengs' solution to this problem, apart from not talking about it? The purpose of this debate is to talk about it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u80	I have always said in reply: that solution path is not a quartet game. So many solutions have been put forward. We should not play a quail game with each other, because I do not think that is the intention. What if I said here behind the microphone: the Boot Committee made a number of recommendations and yes, which are the solution? Then you can see that this may cause even more unrest because a category falls out. I don't know. That is why I say: let us also bring together the other solutions put forward by the various organisations with the Secretary of State. Let us ask him to come up with the solution he has distilled in the short term from all the advice he has given. That is the intention, that is the intention and with that you create peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u81	I am annoyed by the answers given by Mr Ziengs. He's putting on big pants. He's using big words. He's talking about independent professionals, about solutions. He tells us why he was an entrepreneur and why he joined the VVD. But if he is ultimately asked what the solutions are, then the only solution I hear him call us is that we should just keep our mouths shut. We must not discuss it anymore and we must ensure peace. While people at home are in uncertainty and have lost their jobs, I do not hear from Mr Ziengs any solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u82	Mr Bashir has not asked a question, but Mr Ziengs may respond to his comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u83	I'm sorry we have to end it that way. It is indeed the intention that we really should come to the solution in the end. I'm trying to say that if you take a few out of that whole range of solutions, that's exactly what can cause you concern. Now let's just avoid that with each other. Of course we can talk about it. We should even talk about it. But I want to keep the tone calm. I want that very consciously, because of the fact thatzzp'ers of course also watch how we debate this with each other. That's good, but let's really go with each other for the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u84	Mr Klein wishes to use his second possibility of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u85	We have of course adopted the DBA Act because we have some sand in our eyes. The first letter of the abbreviation DBA stands for "deregulation'. Deregulation means fewer rules and more scope for enterprise and self-employed entrepreneurs. Of course we're for that. The following surprises me in the position of the VVD. Rest is sought by not maintaining. So we are not going to allow deregulation to take place, but we are simply saying that we are not going to enforce the law. This is precisely because of all these model contracts, their assessment and how we deal with them. Does the VVD now also propose to say immediately: you know what, let's not send in model contracts anymore? So the VVD says: At the Tax Office one can sit back and wait until 1 January 2018? Does the VVD say: then we will see whether labour law has been changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u86	It is always good if clients and contractors enter into an agreement with each other. Then there can never be any misunderstandings. At the time, it was also intended to work with a number of model contracts. That is how it was introduced into the debate. During the course, however, we have seen that it has become more and more numerous and that it has become more and more extensive. That simply means that there have been many misunderstandings. Mr Klein and I agree on that. However, it is only natural during the upcoming journey that clients and contractors should find a basis for working with each other without any danger. That danger has disappeared thanks to the Secretary of State's letter. He has written in it: if you are benevolent, there is nothing wrong and you can simply work with clients or contractors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u87	I, too, like Mr Ziegs, have worked with customers for years as an independent entrepreneur. You always do that on the basis of an assignment. You always do that on the basis of a contract and agreements. There is no misunderstanding about this, and everyone must continue to do so. However, the question now is whether all these agreements should be submitted to the Tax Administration. Should these agreements be reviewed? After all, this has created the misery which now requires some 1,500 model agreements to be tested. That's why there's misery now. Mr Ziengs does not want to maintain it now. I would say: isn't it much wiser to change the core? Let's just say there are some model agreements. That was the original idea, as Mr Ziengs said. Furthermore, I think it would be very sensible if the monitoring, or rather the assessment of all these agreements, were to be omitted. This gives the Tax Administration more space and we don't need all those extra FTEs there. That's all a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u88	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u89	Next, Mr Ziesgs, the VVD in this context, can give real peace of mind by allowing entrepreneurs to simply enter into business and no longer have to send model contracts to the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u90	It is quite easy to complete a standard contract. It is also not wrong for clients and contractors to do so, because between them it is clear and clear what it is like. The fact that the model contracts were becoming more and more extensive led to problems. As far as we are concerned, there will simply be a standard contract, knowing that there will be no enforcement. Then we take the time to ensure that, as I have outlined, there is a great solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u91	Mr. Chairman. Where did we come from again? In the end, this cabinet could not make a choice as to how to deal with thezzp'er, about the relationship between enterprise and wage-earners now. There was a very good report, the ibozzp, but the coalition partners left this report. Instead of addressing the foundation, the cabinet didn't get much further than replacing a screw. It was replaced by another screw that didn't fit. The VAR disappeared, model agreements replaced it. We've seen the consequences now. Zzp'ers are rapidly losing jobs: in September 47.000 compared to May and now 62.000. This is an increase of 30% in three months, according to Pierre Spaninks and the Intelligence Group. The question has already been asked: if they can provide these figures, why can't the State Secretary? Does he recognize these numbers? But more importantly, what is his message to these 62,000zzp'ers? Then perhaps even the question of conscience: does the Secretary of State regret the fact that he has come up with the DBA Act? If something has become clear from the DBA-debacle, then it is that sticking does not work. The debate on the proper organisation and relationship between enterprise and wage-earners begins with a vision, not with the replacement of the VAR with model agreements. Thanks to this VVD/PvdA-kabinet zzp'ers we don't just come up with a vision. We will have to outline short-term and long-term perspectives for bothzzp's and clients and not just for the Tax Administration, as has now happened. The Secretary of State's message that he is not going to enforce is only a message for his Tax Office. Forzzp'ers and their clients, this solves little or nothing. The law just stays the law. The instrument of model agreements simply continues to exist. In order to resolve the problems with the DBA Act in the short term, the Committee (Model) agreements Act DBA, the Commission-Boat, has been established. This committee has made a number of recommendations, including with regard to remuneration, duration of contracts and the nature of the work. I have not yet seen any substantive response from the Secretary of State to these recommendations. He writes a letter, but does not comment specifically on what he thinks of these recommendations. In other words, these short-term recommendations are moved forward to the long-term. But what is the appreciation of the Secretary of State for all these recommendations? My group agrees with the principles of remuneration, the duration of the agreement and the nature of the work, but the practical application of these principles is, of course, a different one. The financial component, the requirement to charge at least 50% of the collective wage, seems to me to be the most viable, since it is the best thing to objectivate. We also believe that the level of the reward can be looked at. Does the Secretary of State share that? However, the nature of the work is already a lot more uncomfortable. The cashier belongs to the supermarket as whipped cream with the apple pie, but what about the ICTer at a bank? Ten years ago, we would have said no, now we might say yes. In any case, the current solution of the Secretary of State not to maintain....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After all, the law and the model agreements remain in force. Is it not much better, as a short-term solution, to return to the old VAR, I ask the Secretary of State. Not an ideal but a proven concept. Back to the VAR in combination with a hotline for bogus self-employment probably offers more relief in the short term than muddling with model agreements. How fast can we actually get back to the VAR? And is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? That brings me to the long term. There's a wonderful report, the ibozzp, but it wasn't enough. In the meantime, we are also looking at new definitions of labour law. Is it not important to involve the ESC in this? It is now our job to give clarity to thezzp'er and the client, in the short term, for Christmas. Enter the VAR, maintain false self-employment and create a broad vision of entrepreneurship and paid employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u92	Mr. Chairman. The DBA Act should never have been there. Nor would it have been if my colleagues who are now asking questions on a daily basis were to tweet about it and keep asking the Secretary of State to withdraw the law, had just voted against this law, just like the SP Group did here. I would like to express my thanks to the Boot Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u93	Mr Bashir does this all the time, and that is fine with me. I supported this law in this Chamber. I would like Mr Bashir to tell us part 2. In the First Chamber this law has been supported by the SP. The law turned out to be strict onzzp'ers, but the group representative added that we also had to abolish the self-employed deduction quickly. That is the honest story of Mr Bashir. If he doesn't tell me himself, I'd be happy to fill in the last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u94	I propose that, should such a need arise with you again, this be retained for the second term. Otherwise we'll get too much entrapment and interruptions. Mr Bashir continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u95	I would like to respond to that, Mr President. The SP Group voted against in this Chamber. State law says that if a bill is filed here and then rejected, it will not be put to the vote in the Upper House. In the previous debate, I explained in detail why the SP voted in favour in the Upper House. Mr Van Weyenberg can certainly start the debate on this, but then he must be in the Upper House. The fact is that Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Dijck, Mrs Vos, Mr Ziengs...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u96	I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u97	...who are sitting here in this Chamber, voted for it. If they had voted against, this law would not have been dealt with across the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u98	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u99	I feel like I'm being addressed, Mr. Chairman. The only reason the SP voted in favour was because she thought it was a very strict law forzzp'ers. Unfortunately, the SP was right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u100	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u101	That discussion with the other side must be held by Mr Van Weyenberg across the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u102	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u103	We voted against this. We are also in favour of retaining the self-employed deduction. What Mr Van Weyenberg is saying is not the position of my group. Mr. Chairman. I would like to express my thanks to the Boot Committee, which has looked at the operation of the DBA Act in a short space of time and makes critical statements about it. In addition, the committee has come up with sensible recommendations. I'd like to highlight some of them. Boat indicates that income is one of the indicators for assessing whether there is an employment relationship. For example, a significantly higher than usual wage for employees in the same sector is an indicator of absence of employment. However, a wage that is not higher or even lower is an indicator of an employment relationship. This seems to me to be a sensible suggestion. I would like to hear from the rulers what their reaction is to this. Why is this recommendation not accepted? However, the Secretary of State is positive about the suggestion to clarify when model agreements are not needed. Can he indicate how he's going to clarify this and when? In Mr Boot's report we read that only 23% of the contracts submitted are approved by the Tax Administration. Then I wonder if the remaining 77% are all false self-employment. Can the Secretary of State clarify this? Recently we received a letter from ZZP Nederland, in which two recommendations are made. The first recommendation is to take the tax administration's business check as the basis for the assessment of the employment relationship for the time being. The second is setting up a focal point for dummy constructions. I would like to hear from the rulers whether they wish to accept these recommendations. Multinationals are actively lured by the cabinet with mysterious, shady deals that nobody knows the content of, but at the same time it is seemingly difficult to providezzp'ers and their clients with the security they deserve. I don't understand. Maybe the Secretary of State could take a look at that? The Netherlands is an international leader in the conclusion of tax deals with multinationals, but makes it impossible forzzp'ers to just make their living. How is that possible? I think the Secretary of State can give a clear response to that. I'm rounding up. As far as the SP is concerned, it needs to be clarified quickly and if it is there, it simply needs to be maintained. In this way, real false self-employed and exploitation can be combated. We don't have either of us right now, we don't have any clarity and we don't have any enforcement, and that doesn't make anyone any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u104	I have often heard Mr Bashir say that the DBA Act should be abolished. Does Mr Bashir realise that it also abolishes the core of that law, with which I think the FNV and his colleague Ulenbelt are very happy, namely that responsibility is placed with clients?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u105	There are two ways you can try to deal with false self-employment. No one's for false self-employment. It is bad for entrepreneurs and for workers, because it creates unfair competition. You can tackle bogus self-employment legally, as is happening with model agreements and a lot of uncertainty. But you can also tackle bogus self-employment by looking on the spot with inspectors. There are two rulers here. From the Chamber the Secretary of State for Finance on the left is in box K. He has proposed that 5,000 officials be dismissed from the Tax Office or at least made redundant. I have proposed not to do so and to strengthen enforcement, so that bogus self-employed people can be dealt with and, for example, book surveys can be carried out. Mrs. Vos disagreed. She then voted against my proposal, which will get these people fired. So you can have a big mouth about dealing with bogus self-employment, but then you have to vote for it when it is necessary and then you have to ensure that it is maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u106	This isn't about a big mouth. This is about the core of the bill, about the core of what was wrong with the VAR, namely that thezzp'er had to pay if it was wrong, while the client then went free. That was the core of the VAR. In my opinion, the very left, anyone who understands what the labour legislation is like, was simply in favour of abolishing it and investing that responsibility with the client. That's much more effective than an endless battery of enforcers and tax inspectors. On that point, I agree with Mr Bashir, but is he now saying that he thinks the essence of what was wrong with the VAR, okay? I can't imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u107	Mrs Vos is not debating with me, but with someone else, apparently. No one in this room said the VAR was great. I didn't say that either. In fact, even in the previous debate, I said in detail that the VAR was a monstrosity. No one was happy about that either. I find it incomprehensible that Mrs Vos is now pretending to be in favour of the VAR. She had a little talk here about payroll constructions that need to be addressed. I have tabled a proposal which has the meaning of her words on this subject, but she has voted against it. But I'll tell you what, I'm gonna try again later. I will be submitting that proposal again in my second term, but we will never know what will happen to the PvdA when it comes to voting. Perhaps she will be voting in favour of this proposal this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u108	Fine. You had completed your term. Mr Klein has the floor for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u109	Mr. Chairman. Confessing self-employment with the mouth and then turning it into a battlefield, that's what this government of VVD and PvdA has done, with the VVD Secretary of State first. Deregulation? The DBA Act appears to have become a bureaucratic swamp. That became clear in the hearing last week. There are only losers, and the independent entrepreneurs first. We shouldn't even have it from the Boot Committee. This came with vague new criteria, which only lead to more ambiguity, interpretation discussions and undoubtedly additional regulation. I therefore share the advice of Professor Stevens to revive the VAR and at the same time ensure proper enforcement. Why is that important? Because the European Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, Article 16, is clear about the fundamental right to freedom of entrepreneurship, the right of people to free and unhindered entrepreneurship. From a free-minded political perspective, this means that there should be no obstacles in the form of unclear and totally out-of-line commitments. That is why I ask the Secretary of State how he intends to deal with this fundamental right, in relation to this sad Law DBA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-41.u110	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the treatment. In that suspension, a VSO will take place on the General Affairs Council. After this, the debate on the DBA Act continues.
