ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. A survey by the Algemeen Dagblad among 27.000 readers gives a disenchanting picture of care dismantling. 96% of caregivers are concerned about developments. More than three quarters think the quality has deteriorated. Only 15% of carers feel supported by the municipality. Of the care seekers, 70% is not less, but more are going to pay for care. A quarter of them even got into financial trouble. But the Secretary of State states in his response that he sees improvements. The AD questions him about 95% of the workers who are very concerned. The Secretary of State replied: I'm getting a completely different picture out of it. Really, on every question from the A.D., the Secretary of State comes up with a standard phrase. The AD asks whether the transfer leads to inequality between municipalities. The Secretary of State replied that treating it equally led to inequality. The Secretary of State says that there must always be an appropriate provision in the law. That too is an instinct. This so-called appropriate provision means that a quarter of the municipalities have stopped using domestic aid. "People getting older want to stay home longer," says the Secretary of State. But isn't it when Father dies there? I don't think so. It doesn't make any sense either, because the funding of the nursing homes stopped. That's what makes 60,500 places gone in three years. The Secretary of State says that care is not compulsory. That's bullshit, too. There's something like the deduction rule. If brother, sister or child can take care of themselves, then those hours are simply deducted. Then let's see who's gonna let father pollute. Nobody does. It is therefore mandatory. As a blow to the head, the Secretary of State states that the stopwatch care has been abolished. That's really bullshit. All these elderly, long-term sick and disabled people who are now dealing with these maleized reindications see their domestic help, their care, their nursing and their guidance being skimmed in minutes. That minute registration is alive and well. It's livelier than ever! My appeal to the Secretary of State is to stop talking nicely, to stop covering up what he's doing and, if the Secretary of State says that minute registration is over, to stop those re-indications.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mrs Agema's question was ultimately about community care and stopwatch care. For the rest, it was a bit of an argument that she did not agree with my answers and with the survey or the other way around. I'll leave that on her account. In my response to the survey, I indicated how important the work of the district nurse is and will be. It is precisely in this whole change of more care at home that it is important that the neighbourhood nurse gets a boost and more space by ensuring that care is tailored to the individual circumstances. That is why we have arranged, for example, that the CIZ no longer indicates how many hours of community nursing you get, but that the district nurse himself can decide which care is needed. The claim in the Health Insurance Act is that you have the right to health care such as district nurses who commit to providing. This means that the district nurse can decide what care is being provided and how it is being done. As I have already written in several letters to the Chamber, I am still looking at the extent to which this has consequences for the funding of the district nurse care in 2017, such as less performance or easier accountability. As a result of the question of how to adjust the funding, I made a commitment. The report on the financing will be sent to the Chamber in a week or two. So we can disagree on the way you assess the survey. It's okay. I have indicated how I have tried to live up to the statements made to give the district nurse more space so that he or she can decide more himself what is needed. It's been realized. I thought that was a big profit, because the district nurses are the front forces of the change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u3	Before I give you the floor, Mrs Agema, I would like to say that there is a technical malfunction which prevents people outside the Chamber from following this debate. There's no sound outside the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u4	It won't happen to the PVV one day, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u5	It's a shame, but it's being worked hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u6	It's all the Secretary of State's word games. He's a rock in that. I've just published a book in which I completely fillet 31 of those mantras, but he goes on and on. If 96% of the caregivers are worried, he says, "Nothing's wrong." When three quarters say the care has deteriorated, he says, "Nothing's right." It's true! He's always looking the other way. The Secretary of State claims the minute registration has been abolished, but it isn't. I have such a re-indication here. It just says, "Help out at the bathroom hall: two times fifteen minutes. Dress up: two times ten minutes." That's minutes and those minutes are kept. That's the indication you're getting. So I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State again: cut the crap! If he's a man, if he's a guy, then he's gonna put the deed to the word and he's gonna stop those re-indications. I would like a commitment from the Secretary of State for all those who use nursing, care and guidance that they do not have to undergo re-indications, because only then will the end be stopwatch care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u7	The sound's working again, I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u8	Ha! Happy, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u9	Surely it would be strange to decide now whether or not the re-indications could be deleted? Indications and re-indications are precisely for looking at which care you are entitled to. Then the district nurse can decide how it is given and how long. In many cases, that will be a photograph of the moment you arrive. Perhaps after a year the need for care is different and more, less or other care is needed. This means that it is necessary to check whether the care is still adequate. That requires re-indications. I would find it very unfortunate and also wrong if we went to a system in which we took a picture at one time and said "this is the care you are entitled to," then stopped looking at the situation at all and stopped wondering whether care should be adjusted. I'd say that's a really bad world. I don't think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u10	That watching the Secretary of State does every time, takes care of those minutes registrations. That's what gets those indications. It is a complex concept and a complex effect, but the indications provide for those minute registrations and the Secretary of State says: yes, we have to look. If someone is ill or disabled for a long time, do we know that the situation is equal then gets worse? But these people have to deal with the fact that they can't go to the bathroom four times a day but only three times a day. In the case of domestic help, they are confronted with the fact that the window is no longer fully covered, but only up to eye level, or that the rabbit has to leave because the rabbit is no longer cared for. In the survey 56% of people also indicate that care is becoming less, but the Secretary of State is trying to pretend that care can become even more! That's not true. It's breakdown. The Secretary of State has to stop recording minutes. He doesn't admit that there's no indication, so it's all turned out to be a washed nose. It was all majestic again in the Algemeen Dagblad. He didn't cancel the minute registration. It's a big farce!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u11	Unlike Mrs Agema, I am very pleased that we have arranged that the CIZ no longer indicates how many hours of community care you are entitled to, but that it is now up to the district nurse himself. He or she can now dictate how much neighborhood nursing care is needed and can decide for herself what happens. In the law we have established the right to health care and that it is designed as the neighborhood nurse who is used to offer. So the professional determines which care you get and how long. I think that's a big win. I talk to a lot of nurses and there's a lot of discussion about the health care reforms. It has been quite a difficult year, in which a lot changed, but with one thing district nurses were very happy: that they get their work back more. I am even going to go a step further by taking the necessary measures in the funding itself, which the Chamber will soon be hearing. Mrs Agema may disagree with me, but I am happy with it and I see that the district nurses are also happy with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u12	The Secretary of State is happy with less. It's just less, less, less. So all these re-indications just keep going. The windows won't be fixed at all. Soon people won't be helped with their toilets at all. This Secretary of State is responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u13	Too bad the sound just went out, because people could have heard some very interesting figures. I would also like to mention six.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u14	You're gonna read it to me now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u15	There's only six of them. Half of the carers experience their task as heavy to very heavy. About two thirds are concerned about his role as caregiver. 70% pays more than last year. 25% have been due to changes in financial problems. 85% experience the changes as negative. 67% say they can't spend enough time on it. My question is very simple: if the Secretary of State could repeat the entire transition, would he still do exactly the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u16	I have always said in the transition and reform of long-term care that if we want a society in which long-term care is also accessible and remains open to people with a small wallet, and where more elderly people are going to receive other and larger care questions, we will have to make sure that the care system adapts to that. That means we have to look at what's the best concern. More account must be taken of the circumstances in the home situation, and as far as I am concerned the position of the caregiver, and if you are entitled to community care, the professional must determine which care you need. There is a need to further improve the quality of care in the institutions and to take greater account of personal needs. Those are the changes we're making. I can very well imagine that all these changes also create uncertainty and that there are all kinds of regulatory issues. Of course, 2015 has not been an easy year for many people, but I am very convinced that if we want to remain proud of long-term care and ensure that people can continue to receive the care they are entitled to and need, these changes are very useful. Let's agree that we keep following that very regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u17	We know this story of the Secretary of State, because that's how he's always defended his 3 billion. Now we see that 75% think care has deteriorated. Underneath, there's a lot of caregivers. 75,000 people lost their jobs. I repeat, 75,000 people have lost their jobs. Then 2015 has not even been the year in which the hardest cuts have been made. That's gonna get worse this year. Is the Secretary of State going to keep up his sales pitch, or does he want to go and see what's actually happening? If he's gonna do the latter, will he change the policy? Otherwise, maybe it's time to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-2.u18	The issue of affordability of care has been mentioned. That is, of course, an incredibly worrying point. Indeed, people are now paying their full price to the care: contributions, taxes, own contribution and own risk. Why is that? Not because the policy has changed, because it has already been. That's because we're dealing with an increasing demand for care, with aging, with technology. If we do not change care, the situation will not get better but worse. So we have to think about it in two ways. One: how can we guarantee that it will remain affordable for people in the future? Two: how can we ensure that care adapts more to the wishes of people who are different than in the past? You can take the view that nothing should be done about it, but I am sure that you will not be doing the right thing about the future.
