ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the Prime Minister. I call Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. A monarchy in a democracy is not really possible, but as long as people attach so much importance to our Royal House, we will have to make that possible. That is only possible if the Prime Minister succeeds in preventing any fuss about the Royal House, especially arguing about money. Unfortunately, this year too has failed again. Yesterday we received a confused letter from the Prime Minister. There would have been no evidence of a dubious tax deal in 1973 with the members of the Royal House, but there would be a need for more clarity and an investigation. This letter shows exactly why there is always so much fuss about the costs of the Royal House. That's because the Prime Minister creates fog and refuses to tell the truth. Pieces that RTL journalist Roel Geeraedts has seen at the National Archives show that a tax deal has indeed been made. The tax exemption on private property was abolished, but it says that "the constitutional benefits will have to be increased by an income component." The members of the Royal House had to pay taxes, but they were just returned via a back door. I want to know how much compensation the members of the Royal House have received and how much they are getting now. Why didn't the government then listen to objections from top officials who said this deal was absolutely wrong, and who questioned the role of Prince Bernhard? And why has the government never informed the Lower House of this dubious deal? I don't want to talk today. I want answers. I just want the Prime Minister to tell the truth about the following, too. Why did the government attempt in 2010 to declare the documents on the deal in this archive to be state secret? I would also like to clarify this point. Last year, the House of Representatives agreed with me that members of the Royal House should simply pay taxes, just like all other Dutch. This year, it appears that the Prime Minister is not carrying out that motion. It can't be. I would ask the Prime Minister to make a proposal to the House of Representatives for this cabinet period, which would remove all tax exemptions for the members of the Royal House. And this. Why should the Crown Princess receive 1.5 million euros from the age of 18? What's that for? That's a lot more money than her mother is getting the queen right now, and she's getting eight times as much as the prime minister. Why can we not be satisfied with a normal amount which is substantially lower than, for example, the Prime Minister's income? I also ask the Prime Minister this year, after six years of Rutte Cabinets, why there is always talk about money. About the private sale of art, about planes flying empty back and forth around the world, and about far too expensive maintenance of ships and carriages, where the House of Representatives has to make every year so much effort to get the most basic information. A monarchy in a democracy can only be possible if a serious debate on the Royal House is possible in this Parliament, and so there can be a serious discussion about its costs. If the Prime Minister is willing to carry out the broad wishes of the House of Representatives and he is willing to inform the Chamber properly and take good decisions. The King is not only an extension of national business but a representative of all of us. Kingship is more than making money and has to do with dignity. A monarchy can endure a lot, but not that eternal stuff about money. I ask the Prime Minister today to show leadership and give a serious answer to the many questions that live here in the House of Representatives and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Many Dutch people, like the VVD group, have a warm heart for the royal family. For many people, the royal house is a connecting factor in society in times of sadness, tension, joy and pride. This is seen and appreciated in our society. In addition, the royal house is of great importance for the BV Nederland. With the presence of the King and the Queen in trade missions, the doors abroad open to our business. This means jobs for people in the Netherlands. A better ambassador cannot wish for our country. A royal house also has a certain appearance. It's the look that's gonna cost you. This is the subject of discussion every year, for example on the net remuneration, on the duty-free allowances granted to members of the Royal House, on the cost of restoration of palaces and on the lemsterak or the sale of art. That should not be the subject of constant discussion. That doesn't help the position of the royal family. That is why the VVD Group has always insisted in recent years that the King's budget should be clear and transparent. A party such as the VVD, who is in favour of constitutional monarchy, should be critical when things are not clear, not transparent or even correct. That's in the interests of the same royal family. I therefore advocated this last year when evaluating the King's budget. In addition to the recommendations in the ABDTOPConsult report, I have achieved more transparency together with other parties in the Chamber. This year an annex containing expenditure on other budgets has been added to the King's budget. The large maintenance regime and the associated costs of palaces are listed. The maintenance costs for De Groene Draeck have been reduced and will no longer be borne by the State if Princess Beatrix no longer uses them. The foundations of the Royal House have been made clear. It is good that the budget is now much more transparent than it was when this Prime Minister took office. This is without prejudice to the fact that again this year there are issues of discussion and fuss. This concerns firstly the sale of two works of art by members of the royal family: Saleh's painting and Cleeff's Atlas Munnicks. Secondly, it concerns the compensation that the royal family would have been granted in the 1970s for paying taxes on private property. The works of art were found to be private property, were restored at their own expense and were found not to be on the list belonging to the then Law on the Conservation of Cultural Property. It is therefore clear that the members of the royal family have done nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u4	The VVD's position on these works of art amazes me, because I haven't seen anything yet that they were private property. I haven't seen a critical question from the VVD about this part of the problem lately either. The painting was lost for decades. So the owner wasn't even known and the question is who owned it. Does Mrs Van der Burg not think that further research should be carried out into why an export licence has been granted within three or four days, which normally lasts weeks? And why did it all have to be so mysterious, with the statement that it couldn't be discussed for years that the Atlas had been sold? I also want to know from the VVD whether she thinks that things that were different in the nineteenth century, when things were different, were given to the King but with that, of course, just as now, to the people, are private property. I therefore do not share Mrs van der Burg's conclusion that this dossier would be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u5	The latter is your right. I therefore assume that you will ask questions about this in your own term. We have looked at the facts. These are the facts that have emerged. As far as we are concerned, this is a satisfactory answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u6	Could Mrs van der Burg then give me those facts? I haven't heard a single question from her. I asked questions together with Mr Monasch, because I think that this needs to be clarified. If Mrs van der Burg can indicate that the right of ownership is 100% certain, that a procedure that has been accelerated to a few days is completely normal, whereas otherwise it will always take weeks for an export licence to be issued, and that it is normal for confidentiality clauses to be signed, which gives a strange picture, then I would be happy to acknowledge my wrong in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u7	I assume the information on the Royal House's website is correct. That's where I got my information. There's this information crystal clear. I am not at home in selling works of art, in exactly how it works with export licences and in exactly how long that takes. Mr Pechtold is much more of an expert. I assume he'll ask those questions to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u8	I am glad to be able to ask these questions on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u9	I will continue with the subject of compensation. The government states that it was unable to find anything in the archives about the compensation that would have been granted to the royal family in the 1970s, at least no link to the private capital compensation. However, the government also indicates that it cannot be established that there has been no compensation because it does not know from what parts the agreed benefit was built up at the time. This shouldn't be a discussion. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, this needs to be looked at. The VVD Group is therefore in favour of the announced historical research. This should be done independently. My group would like to hear how the Prime Minister intends to shape this and when the House of Representatives will be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u10	What did the VVD Group actually think of the Prime Minister's letter? There would be no proof of a deal, but it says a little further: if there is a deal, then blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, And it says down the road: we don't know, because there's got to be an investigation. I have rarely received such a confusing letter from the Prime Minister in the last six years, while the documents distributed by RTL are very clear. These documents state that, at the same time as the abolition of duty-free, adequate regulation of the Crown's financial position had to be made. To this end, constitutional benefits had to be increased by an income component. So it's not that complicated. What does the VVD think of the fog that the Prime Minister seems to deliberately throw up here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u11	Then we differ a little bit about the clarity of the documents that have been sent. For part of the pieces, there is no data above it. Perhaps Mr Van Raak has other pieces than me. I got them off RTL's website. I didn't think it was very clear. The Prime Minister's letter clearly states that he has not been able to find a one-on-one relationship. It is also very clear, however, that we do not know how this compensation was built up at the time. That is why historical research is needed. That seems necessary to me. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u12	It is, of course, very strange that we have been talking here for 43 years about compensation to the Royal House and that after 43 years, it turns out that nobody really knows exactly how these have been built up, not even the Prime Minister. Isn't it weird that there should be a historical investigation into that? Speaking of research, RTL can only disclose things that are in archives that may be made public. However, there is a lot of material, the relevant material, material with evidence in archives that should not be made public. In fact, in 2010 the government tried to make this kind of archives a state secret. Will we ask the Prime Minister, for the clarity of this debate, to make these documents public? I refer to the same pieces as RTL based on. Then today we can have a debate on the same data, the same archives and the same facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u13	Yeah, I'm asking for a historical investigation for a reason. The cabinet itself has proposed this. We just need to get this out of the world. That seems to me to be a clear position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u14	That's not a historical investigation. We're not here at the Historical Museum. We are here in the House of Representatives and have a political debate. The Prime Minister says I've seen pieces, but I haven't found anything. A journalist from RTL says I've seen the pieces and it's all in there. What are we supposed to do? Are we going to have a good-bye game here today or are we going to have a serious debate here? Looks like we've been fooled for 43 years. I've had enough of that. I need a serious debate today, so I ask the VVD if it is prepared to ask the Prime Minister with us to make these documents public today, so that we can have a serious discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u15	I think that journalist had access to the National Archives. It is now said that we cannot see that. I think it would be a good idea for an independent party to look into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u16	The group chairman of Mrs van der Burg, Mr Zijlstra, called this tax evasion. I myself was a little more cautious, perhaps a little more careful, because I didn't have all the facts on the table yet. But since the VVD has had the heavy word 'tax evasion', I do think that we should take it off if we can. I have two questions. Does Mrs Van der Burg still support her group chairman on the word 'tax evasion'? Does Mrs Van der Burg agree with me that we do not need a historical inquiry now, but a Court of Auditors investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u17	The VVD Group and also the group chairman of the VVD have always said that the facts must first be brought to the fore. That's, I think, important. That is why we are in favour of this investigation. Now I come to the second question. I'm in favour of an independent investigation. I don't know exactly who to do that. I want it to take place independently. I think it should indeed be an historical study, because it must also be looked at what happened at that time and how it was built up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u18	Because the VVD group chairman used the term 'tax evasion' here, and he does not do that lightly, I take it that this whole story about 43 years ago has been quite loaded. Prime Minister Rutte is a historian and I'm an art historian. I consider ourselves very large and high in the historical investigation of things, but this is simply a matter of tax-technical agreements in the political and constitutional sphere. For that we have an institution, the General Court of Auditors. It is independent and specialised in this field. That means: no talk about the questions which historian we let do the research with which assignment and whether he has enough possibilities to read secret documents. No, we have the Court of Auditors for that. The people there are qualified and also authorized. I feel that there is something about space already, so I would very much like the VVD to say: yes, that is better than a historical investigation. I regard the latter as a kind of flight ahead of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr Pechtold will come back to this in his own term. I stand by my words: we want an independent historical investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u20	Does Mrs Van der Burg agree with me that the Court of Auditors is independent and more often dives into history?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u21	I agree with Mr Pechtold that the Court of Auditors is independent, but I do not know at the moment whether that is the appropriate party to conduct this investigation. That's why I'm sticking to an independent historical investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u22	I would like to know where Mrs van der Burg's doubts lie. Why does she say: I do not know if the Court of Auditors is the appropriate party to do so? Then where's the VVD's doubt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u23	I do not know whether the Court of Auditors is the best party in this area to do so and therefore I do not want to commit myself to making that choice. I am concerned that it is independent and that there is indeed a historical investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u24	I think this is really weird. We ask the Court of Auditors regularly to investigate a particular subject. Then why wouldn't it be possible in this case? It looks like the VVD measures with two sizes. I have a second question. Does Mrs Van der Burg also think that it should be possible to look into the archives of the Royal House if this investigation is actually to take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u25	You're gonna give this to me in a nutshell. I merely believe that an independent investigation should be carried out. I'm not going to speak out for a party that has to do this. I'd like to hear the trade-offs. I have asked for this in my contribution. What does such an investigation look like? When will the Chamber be informed? Maybe we'll come up with the same thing. I don't know, but I'm not going to commit to any particular party right now. I think there's access to that archive. I understand from the media that that journalist had it, too, but I would like to put the question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u26	The archive of the Royal House is considered a private archive, despite the fact that there are pieces in it that clearly have a public interest. There's only one person who can determine if people get access to that archive, the King. In this case, when it comes to the King's finances, about public money, I would find it very logical if this information were to be public, especially for the support of the monarchy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u27	I understand you're going to ask the Prime Minister that question. I'd like to hear the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u28	I'm experiencing some discomfort with Mrs. Van der Burg. I also feel this discomfort when talking openly about financial arrangements from the 1970s. We've had questions about the crown princess' allowance. We've talked about a boat before and all kinds of incidents. Every year there is one thing. The financial arrangement relating to the Royal House dates back to the 1970s and was updated in 2008. Wouldn't it be beneficial to take a step back and review that whole scheme so that we are relieved of uncomfortable discussions about incidents and funding, where we both feel discomfort?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u29	We just had a whole evaluation last year. That causes some inconvenience to me, too. In 2009, we agreed to a number of arrangements here. Every year these discussions come after all. You are right in saying that it is an inconvenience to me, also because it is important that the facts are on the table first. That has always been the line of the VVD Group. I also think it is a good idea to do historical research now and to look at what results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u30	Now we're going to do a historical investigation. Then everything comes up again and we find something of that. We have received a letter with a very complicated calculation of the crown princess' allowance. That is also extremely complicated. It's a little incident policy. We're bumping a little bit from incident to incident. Let's take a step back and keep this whole arrangement under review. Wouldn't it be wise to set up a new committee? Maybe we should think first about whether such a committee is necessary, but would it not be wise to just ask that question, to relieve ourselves of the inconvenience that we feel, that we feel in the media and that we are confronted with every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u31	I've seen in the media that you argue for that. I think it would be wise if you put that question to the Prime Minister yourself. I am not yet out, also because of the evaluation we had last year and the comprehensive evaluation of 2009. In the letter it is written that this is still being looked at. I don't know if what you're trying to do will help you step back. I don't know if that's possible at this time. As a party, we have worked as much transparency as possible, precisely to get this out of the world. I do not think we disagree on this. However, we have to note that we have incidents every year. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u32	For the sake of clarity, I am concerned about clarity and transparency. If it is transparent, clear and well-preserved, we relieve ourselves of uncomfortable discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u33	My group would like to hear how the Prime Minister intends to shape this historical investigation and when the House of Representatives will be informed. I come to the other points I would like to raise. It is a good thing that the renovation of the golden coach does not, now and in the future, lead to an increase in the budget article in question. We agreed that last year and it is now crystal clear. It is striking that the costs of renovation are not included in the budget, while an indication is given on the website of the Royal House. The VVD Group finds this confusing. This also leads to unnecessary discussion. Can the Prime Minister explain why this was chosen? Last summer, Noordeinde Palace was open to the public for several weeks. A number of colleagues have argued very strongly in favour of this and have succeeded in doing so. My group seems to be able to repeat it. There were many interested parties. Can the Prime Minister make an effort to make it happen again in the coming years? A few years ago, I successfully argued that we Dutch people, after some 200 years of kingship, could also follow the swearing-in of the rulers of a new cabinet via television. This has resulted in beautiful images of this ceremony in the Orange Room of Palace Huis ten Bosch. Now there will be elections, and thus the swearing-in of a new cabinet. Palace House ten Bosch is being rebuilt, as we all know, and is probably not available. Will the Prime Minister promise that we will be able to follow this swearing-in in one of the beautiful halls of Noordeinde Palace? Today we are talking about the two budgets for which the Prime Minister is directly responsible. It is remarkable that he is Prime Minister of this century's longest-standing cabinet. This cabinet has had to take difficult measures. Everyone in the Netherlands has felt that. The Netherlands has not gone down. People really put their shoulders on that. The result of that effort may be there. After years of crisis, the economy is picking up again, unemployment is falling and people are spending a little more. Not everyone feels that yet. That is what we are going to work hard on in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u34	I would like to make a point of replying to Parliament's questions to the cabinet in my own time. There is a lot of leaks there, I shall dwell on it, but I would also like to talk about our constitutional right to ask questions. Mrs van der Burg and I have been holding this debate for a few years. I have shown time and time again over the last few years that the deadlines are increasing rather than decreasing. Mr President, I would also like to involve you in this: we simply have agreements on this. Three weeks is the maximum time limit. The only ministry that adheres to it on average is General Affairs, all others do not. We can therefore say that we are wrong, but on the other hand we are now with the top boss, the Prime Minister. I think that there should be some improvement in this last year, because we are talking in all seriousness about a right of the Chamber to obtain information. Does Mrs Van der Burg agree with me that we should allow the Prime Minister to make some firm commitments today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr Pechtold also knows that he always finds the VVD by his side when it comes to parliamentary rights. We did agree to that. It's an important point. I look forward to his questions on that. I would like to add one comment: a lot of questions are also asked to some departments. But that is still no reason to trample on our parliamentary rights. I therefore agree with Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u36	To help Mrs Van der Burg: the latter is not the case. Over the last nine years, the number of questions has not increased significantly. The number of words we need for it is. In 1995 we needed an average of 863 characters including spaces, but that has now risen to 1,671 characters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr Pechtold has done his homework well. I await his questions with interest. It is good to note that General Affairs generally complies with the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u38	It doesn't get that many questions, I think. I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u39	Mr. Chairman. If one colour connects the Dutch, it's orange. That's what we see at international sporting events, but also on King's Day. The king is the symbol of unity. In our country, with many different people and opinions, the king plays an indispensable, binding role. King Willem-Alexander and Queen Máxima are in the midst of society and are approachable, also through the use of Twitter and Facebook. For example, the Netherlands remains connected to the House of Orange in a contemporary way. On King's Day, the Orange feeling and the Dutch trading spirit come together in the free market. Also in the King's budget, we experience the Orange feeling on the one hand and the trade spirit on the other: we get value for money and can't it be a little cheaper? It is the task of the Prime Minister to uphold the value of kingship by carefully and transparently regulating the costs of kingship. It has happened all too often that discussions about costs have been stirred up by the Prime Minister's nonchalance and sloppyness. Why does the Prime Minister spend so many words not revealing the cost of restoring the golden coach? Meanwhile, the stable manager indicated that these costs are estimated at 1.2 million euros. What exactly is that about? Archive research can bring news. RTL News thought it was a secret tax deal. For the Prime Minister as a historian, it must be a piece of work: a meter and a half archive on the creation of the Royal House Financial Statute Act. The Prime Minister told us that the king knew nothing about it and neither did his mother. That was unfortunate. Why did the Prime Minister feel so compelled to make this announcement about his conversation with the King? For the record, today is not an assessment of the 1972 cabinet decisions. However, it is a question of building up the constitutional benefit on the basis of the Royal House Financial Statute Act. If we agree on the construction, we do not have to spend every year on the amounts. Can the Prime Minister explain and justify the build-up of the funds? The royal couple also represents the Netherlands across the border. The prestige and great network of king and queen makes it easy to establish contacts with foreign statesmen and to open doors to Dutch political and business interests. The Netherlands is a small country, but scores high on the list of most competitive economies. For example, our royal couple often combines a state visit with a trade mission, such as China, Germany and Australia. How much more efficient can it be? The King and Queen enjoy great support. The 2016 Koningsdag survey shows that two out of three Dutch prefer the monarchy to a republic. That's what the CDA thinks is a sensible choice. The royal couple also personally enjoys a great deal of appreciation among the Dutch people. Queen Máxima is committed to microfinance with expertise and commitment. And in what country does the king get on the tram? Finally. Unfortunately, in the political debate, we are looking at all kinds of issues at a one-sided cost. The Dutch Team not only costs, but also has a great value and in our view is indispensable for Dutch society. Orange stands for a tradition of peace, security and well-being. If we agree, we can talk about this budget in a business way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr Amhaouch has been quite critical of colleagues who have asked questions in recent days. The CDA created a kind of atmosphere of: leave it all. That is a bit the atmosphere of the King's Day feeling that Mr Amhaouch put at the centre of his speech. I'm glad to hear him ask me some questions. Doesn't he think it's just a job of a representative of the people to ask questions when social problems arise, especially when it comes to spending taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u41	That's very good. We have always been in favour of transparency. My colleague from the VVD also said that transparency was agreed in 2008-2009. Of course you can always ask. Asking through with a grocery mentality It can be a little less here and here a little more here, however, I do not find an appropriate way of discussing the way in which we in the House of Representatives deal with the royal family.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u42	Can Mr Amhaouch give me one example of a question that the CDA has put in public over the last five years about these finances?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u43	In any event, the CDA agreed in 2009 to a new way of providing transparency in the royal family's budget. I think everyone's been there. The question is whether you should do it all again every year or every four years or every cabinet period. Last year we had the evaluation. Do you think this should happen every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u44	I note that they are colleagues, like Mr Van Raak and I, who are asking questions. Mr Amhaouch is now getting excited about such a subject as the golden coach, but it is the investigative work of journalists, it is the questioning of his colleagues that leads to that. I have not heard a single written question or oral question from the CDA Group over the last five years on these matters. Mr Amhaouch now lifts on to the work of others, and then blames them for handling them heavily. And that in a historical perspective in which Christian parties fell in love with a Catholic on their back legs at the time someone from the royal family fell in love. My party doesn't interfere with love, but it does interfere with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u45	Mr Pechtold is now talking about different beliefs, but of course I have my own opinion on this. We must look forward, we must look forward to the future. A great deal has been said in this Chamber about transparency. Each Member of Parliament has the right, of course, to ask further questions. We'll be there, too. We're asking questions now. The Prime Minister is responsible for clarifying a number of matters. Hopefully we will come back to the answers. Coming back on that golden carriage: why doesn't the Prime Minister say anything about it and the stable master does? I'd like to hear that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u46	Grocery mentality? Grocery mentality? Does the CDA really think that those Members of this House who are asking critical questions about amounts that may not be very large in the total national budget, but which are high for people who have to live on low incomes, have a grocery mentality? I'd like to hear a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u47	I call the approach a grocery mentality. We are all meeting here in the Chamber about a crown princess or crown prince Willem-Alexander. 30 years ago, exactly the same methodology was being discussed as now for Crown Princess Amalia. Nothing's changed. If GroenLinks has new insights or has other questions about the system construction, we would like to discuss this. But if we say now that a number of parties do so, that it may be one onion more or less, I call that a grocery mentality in dealing with such cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u48	In recent years, chronically ill and disabled people have always had to deal with the accumulation of all kinds of costs. People who are unemployed are getting more and more difficult to finance. And then the CDA, when fellow room members are critical of a fairly high salary, says that that is a grocery mentality. What world is Mr Amhaouch from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mrs. Voortman is confusing a number of things. We can, of course, bring in all kinds of things. The CDA, of course, also represents a good care for people. My colleague Keijzer is always working on that. It's not appropriate to confuse these things. If we go on that tour... We nail a lot of millions in this house, whether at the Tax Office or at ICT projects. I do not think we should do that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u50	Mr. Chairman. A modern kingship includes modern arrangements. Those agreements must be clear, transparent and justifiable, and they are not now. In order to maintain the kingship in the 21st century, there must be a change. The cabinet can no longer rely on tradition to counter these necessary changes. The Labour Party wants clear agreements on five points. First of all, treat the King fiscally like anyone else. That's not new. I've been saying it for years. There is no reason to make exceptions for the King. The common argument that no distinction can be made between functional expenditure and private expenditure does not make sense. If the Prime Minister thought so, I would ask him to give examples of this. The second point concerns the argument used by many Cabinets that the King needs a substantial private capacity to carry out his duties and that the tax advantages are necessary. After the 1972 Constitutional Amendment, that is also nonsense. The State has since paid all the functional costs. You're right. As a result, the exemption from taxes, referred to in the Constitution as "tax exemption," can and should be abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u51	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u52	I'm almost done with my block, but I forgot where I left off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u54	To this end, the Chamber adopted a motion for a resolution. The government has so far refused to carry out that motion, so the Chamber must do it itself. I will therefore, hopefully with the co-sponsors of last year's motion, SP and D66, and perhaps with other parties, put forward an initiative bill that will put an end to duty-free.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u55	That is right, I tabled a motion last year which was supported by Mr Pechtold and also by Mr Recourt. That was a nice initiative of SP, PvdA and D66. I have to say that it is embarrassing that the Prime Minister should just keep his mouth shut for a year and then say in the budget that he is not going to carry out that motion. I think it is very nice that Mr Recourt is prepared to draw up an initiative law. I'd like to embrace that initiative, too. That's what we're gonna do! But what does Mr Recourt think of the Prime Minister dealing with such a broad wish that lives in the House of Representatives, and also outside the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u56	Too bad, too bad, but in his right. We cannot force the Prime Minister to carry out our motion. We live in a democracy. State law is designed in such a way that the cabinet, in a form of checks-and-balances, does not have to do one-on-one what the Chamber says. For example, the cabinet can decide not to vote or withdraw laws when they are amended so that the cabinet no longer recognizes them as its own laws. The same applies, of course, when you give the order to make a law that the cabinet cannot bear. Again, I regret that, but those are the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u57	I also have a more household question. We're gonna make that initiative bill. I look forward to that. It's gonna be a constitutional review. This means that it has to be taken in two and that it must be voted on once again after the elections. There's an election coming up. Is Mr Recourt prepared to try to have that initiative law at least before the elections in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u58	I'm sure I'm willing to do that. It is only a question of whether that will work, because as Mr Van Raak knows, we still have little time, but it would be nice. Then we will significantly shorten the time of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u60	I would have stuck to the second point. The compensation for taxes paid must stop. As has been said, the 1972 Constitution provides that all costs incurred in the exercise of kingship shall be reimbursed by the State. However, tax exemptions remained, but the King's private property would be taxed from that moment on. If that did not actually happen because tax revenues returned to the King via a collusive arrangement, it is not acceptable and must change that. This should not now, in 2016, be part of the payment to the King. The Prime Minister states in his letter yesterday that no evidence was found for this compensation. RTL News contradicts this and supports it with sources. Does the Prime Minister know RTL's sources? If not, why doesn't he have it? If so, can he indicate why he has reached a different conclusion? I appreciate that the Prime Minister is going to look further, and I appreciate that we are finally, I say, going to get more clarity about the elements that make up the payment to the King. Can the Prime Minister promise that the investigation will at least take place independently? And as a result of the interruptions to Mrs van der Burg, I am right in asking: who is to carry out this investigation? I do not know yet, I say, because I do not think you can say so easily that the Court of Auditors should do so. For example, I myself have read the sources of RTL. It's mostly text research instead of numeral research. It surprised me how much we wrote in another language 50 years ago than we do now. I found the pieces incredibly difficult to interpret. In addition to financial expertise, I therefore also want historical expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u61	I agree with that nuance. By the way, the notes of senior officials in the margin were not cryptic; they were very clear. I agree that the Court of Auditors is used to looking at budgets, but we also need to look at reports of consultations that have not even taken place in the Trêveszaal, but in a palace. I think a historical investigation is a flight ahead of the cabinet. We must then ask who is going to do that and what the commission is going to do. That's how we get a whole rigged-up thing. I prefer to argue for something that already exists like the Court of Auditors. I think it would be fine if the cabinet immediately indicated in its reply that there was a prior or also a historical investigation. However, I would like something that is in its nature independent and used to dealing with research matter and with which we do not get any fuss about questioning and such. Does Mr Recourt agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u62	All those last elements, yes. Once again, I cannot say in this first period that the Court of Auditors is going to do it. I shall indicate the elements to be met. I also want that committee, the Court of Auditors or whoever it is going to do, to have access to all relevant sources such as the Royal House Archives, as far as we can say something about it here, at least I am appealing to them and perhaps other sources. That's really historical source research. We've got to get that expertise in there. Let us wait for the Prime Minister's answer for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u63	But Mr Recourt agrees with me that it should not only be historical research in which we have no control over the questioning and composition of the committee and so on, also in view of the whole history and the atmosphere surrounding it. Let's not forget that the VVD called it tax evasion. Mr Recourt and I have been more careful in this, but the VVD has said so. I therefore believe that this should be made clear quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u64	Agreed!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u65	I'm a historian, even a political historian. I studied the pieces extensively last night. I noticed two things: it is a very unordered archive and it is fantastic material. You'll get a look in the kitchen, let's just say. I note that the Prime Minister also wants to make the subject very big in his letter. I can see it happening: a major research, a historical research, and that can take a very long time. However, the problem is very small: has a tax deal been concluded, how has it been achieved, has the Chamber been informed and why not? That's a very small investigation, a tax-technical-financial investigation. Will Mr Recourt seriously consider the Court of Auditors, as I suggested earlier this week, also in the light of the fact that it must be a small study on a small problem, the deal, that it must be done quickly and that we should not go along with a Prime Minister who wants to lift it over the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u66	I am only partially in agreement with Mr Van Raak. Let's start with the scope of the investigation. The Prime Minister writes in his letter: we want to look further at what that benefit to the King, that A component, is made up of. What elements are in there? That is wider than just the question of whether a deal was made in 1972. Maybe we also need legal knowledge. As far as I am concerned, Mr Van Raak's quote is not very clear. In what context do you have to consider that? The then queen, Juliana, had to pay for 1972 for the trenching and sailing of the kingship out of her private wealth. That had to be changed. The State has incurred a lot of costs and then a benefit, an A component, had to be paid to the then queen. That is what I read in Mr Van Raak's quote. He then asks a number of other very legitimate questions, such as the criticism of Finance and so on. This suggests that there was more to it, that there might have been a hand blow at the time. I really want to know better. But I couldn't make it as clear as now as "the evidence is clip-and-ready."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u67	The investigation needs to focus on the handshake. Everything else, like the proceeds of the crown domains and the costs for the baptism of grandchildren, is interesting, but it doesn't matter. What matters is the handshake, the tax deal. That is a small element within the whole of the Royal House's fees. I wonder whether that has happened legally, whether it is allowed at all and whether Mr Zijlstra is right that it is simply tax avoidance. That's the small element we need to examine. I am very afraid that today the PvdA is very critical of the VVD Prime Minister, but that they will conclude together that we have to do a very large research on the whole construction of that time, and that it may take a very long time. While the problem before us is a relatively simple tax deal, which we can examine very quickly. I think the General Court can do that within a week, two weeks. Then it's got to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u68	I think it'll take longer, again, because you need to see what the benefit to the king is made up of. What elements exist? A possible deal was tucked away in one of the elements. You can say "we have to do this piece," but when you look at a table with binoculars, for example, you miss the big context. It doesn't have to be an endless investigation, but in two weeks, you can't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mr Van Raak, I would like to conclude by saying that otherwise we will be repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u70	This is exactly what I feared. "We need to conduct a major investigation into the composition of the fees of the members of the Royal House." No, you don't have to. We need to investigate the deal. Does the PvdA agree with me that we should investigate the deal and not a very historical investigation into the history of the creation of the system of fees? Otherwise, the PvdA is doing the same thing as the VVD, namely creating fog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u71	With an investigation, you don't create fog, you create clarity. You can only say it has to be fast or slow. There is no distinction between a very small study or a very large study. To find out if there's a deal, you need to look wider. You can't do it with a microscope. You really need to look wider for that. In fact, I am asking for further broadening of the research or for separate research into the benefit to the Crown Princess. I would also like to make that clear. I'm getting to that now. Expand the investigation of the King's elements to the heir to the throne. Then I say in the direction of Mr Van Raak: or make a separate investigation of it! We understand that Princess Amalia will also perform work as a student in preparation for her task and that these are simply functional costs that the State must reimburse. We just don't understand that these costs should be as high as she is mostly studying. Study expenses seem to me to be just for the parents. Does the Prime Minister want to give an insight into this too? In this way, we can arrive at a reasonable, transparent and explanatory benefit in time for her studies. My fourth point is this. Find out and make clear who owns objects: the State or the King. An article in the NRC on the sale of a painting by members of the royal family abroad showed that even now it is not always clear who owns objects such as paintings. Is that the state or the king? What about the painting by painter Saleh that the NRC reported about? What about other objects? Palaces are furnished. Is it always clear what is state and what is private property? Is there a view of all relevant objects and where they are located? This ambiguity is highly undesirable and vulnerable to the King. This has to be mapped out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u72	I was allowed to deal with the Heritage Act in the Chamber myself. We have found that this is a problem for many public authorities, such as water boards and universities. Here in the Lower House a painting of an entire VVD cabinet has been rolled up and ended up in the garbage bin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u73	Cort van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u74	Cort van der Linden, painted by Piet van der Him. Beautiful portrait. It's gone, in the trash can. Even now, a dignitary, like our President, sometimes gets a present. If it's a bottle of wine, take it home. If it's some kind of work of art, it's gonna be in a closet here. In that light, I also see something like one of those paintings by Raden Saleh. The compensation this painter received for his life was paid by the Ministry of Colonies, not by the King's private treasury. For example, there have been uncertainties, including in the legacy of former Queen Juliana and Prince Bernhard. I suspect that we are getting even more, so I think that it is necessary to examine my own and my own views on such matters in order to prevent important cultural heritage from disappearing suddenly again in misty relations involving a great deal of money. In this case, a unique work, our historical property, suddenly "hup" has disappeared far abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u75	I totally agree with that. That was my argument: make it clear and take stock of what belongs to who. That's the bottom line. I cannot say here now: one is from the King, the other is from the State. That too should be seen in the perspective of, in this case, the nineteenth century. You cannot directly declare the standards of the 20th century applicable to them. But let us have that established by a committee, an expert or anyone else, so that there is no more discussion about it. If we have then established that it is private and that it is within the standards, in the sense that you are allowed to alienate it abroad, then I think that we, as politicians, will be ready. Then you can think culturally of everything, for example that we have to keep it, but above all we have to change the law that determines what is allowed to go abroad and what is not. We have to deal with the royal family in such a way that it is done when it complies with the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u76	I think that the latter is a very valuable and respectful starting point, but in order to get there we still have a way to go. I didn't want to leave it all with the Prime Minister. Since this is really about cultural heritage, I would like to mention this in the budget where culture is also discussed and the treatment of the Heritage Act. But I look forward to working with the PvdA, which we are already feeling, and perhaps other parties to bring this historically responsible and so that we do not get any more fuss about the question: whose was what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u77	Agreed. Again, it is ultimately harmful to the king himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u78	I would like to build on the theme 'prevention of hassle', which lives widely with everyone. Mr Recourt also asked about the exact amount for the heir. What does he think of the answers given by the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u79	Insufficient, to the extent that I have the same answers as Mr Van der Staaij. We have always done so; these are the schemes, and they produce 2.5 tonnes of A-income and 1.2 million B-component.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u80	Precisely in order to avoid fuss, a lot of investment was invested in a law in the past and in renewing it. That's what all the parties came to an end for. The law in which all this is done is really not that awfully old. It's not from the Middle Ages. It's from 2008. It was then unanimously accepted by the Chambers. Isn't it a little tricky that now that we see how the law works and how it works, we start grumbling again that we can't do it? I get the feeling. At the same time, I find this difficult when I look at the way in which we ourselves bear parliamentary responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u81	I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that we must have some consistency. We cannot run from one side to the other every year. That consistency is in any case in the criticism of the amount for the Crown Prince or Crown Princess, I have selected. Furthermore, of course, we are living a long time later than 2008, 2009. It's 2016. We'll make our own decision. Then I come back to what I said: financial agreements must be clear, transparent and explanatory. No distinction is made between study and post-study time. I can't explain that. Hence my criticism of that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u82	I get the point and everyone feels something about that. At the same time, it bothers me, because in 2008, which was not so long ago, we saw these arrangements openly and simply said yes to them all. Then it's not entirely fair to say: we do have stuff about it every time. Yeah, this law was meant to prevent that from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u83	You have a point. But I think the point is that it's not explanatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u85	The final issue I would like to raise is the extension of the opening up of the palaces and their structuralisation. I am pleased that my motion on the opening of the palaces has been carried out. Thank you for that. I myself enjoyed Palace House ten Bosch very much. But also the visit of Noordeinde Palace was, I understand, a great success. I ask the Prime Minister to use these experiences to enable structural viewing at times when it can and the spaces are suitable for this purpose. No more, but no less. All right, let's go. Let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u86	In my view, Mr Recourt has indicated five points which he believes should be taken up by the cabinet. These are all points that GroenLinks wholeheartedly supports. I would like to add two more points. Firstly, make the use of the B component of benefits transparent. Secondly, make sure that the documents of public interest from the archives of the Royal House are made public, in accordance with Mrs Kalsbeek's 2005 motion. Should these points be added to the nice five-point plan of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u87	I shall begin with the final point, the archives of the Royal House. I must disappoint you: I think the current arrangement is good. Two years ago, we went to work. Then it was well explained by the archivist that what is public and private is expanded. Where the audience is, it's about going to the National Archives. The publication yesterday of the book on Queen Juliana confirmed me, I must say, in the fact that the kingship is very vulnerable. A lot of private matters are on the street, and that's exactly what the Royal House's private archive is for. I wouldn't want the glass house they live in to become even more vulnerable by further opening the doors of the Royal House archives. Again, things that concern the State belong not in the archives of the Royal House, but in the National Archives. There is now a good arrangement for this; I think that the further opening of that door would be too vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u88	For clarity: real private matters, such as diary notes, although very interesting, are up to the person himself to decide whether they may become public. As an example, I mention the report by the Beel Committee, which was about a period of great political concern. Maybe there are some files in the archives of the Royal House about the tax deal. Those are things that have a clear public interest, aren't they? These are documents which Mr Recourt must also consider to be open to the public. I also asked for information on the use of the B component of benefits. Will the Labour Party at least add that point to its five-point plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u89	I'll start with the archive: it's not black and white. Diary notes may contain relevant state issues. It's always gonna have to be a trade-off. The two examples you mentioned seem to me to be extremely relevant, not only in private but also in state law. I assume that the question can be asked as to whether they should go to the National Archives, or whether they should remain decided. We certainly need to take a critical look at that. You have given good examples of this. I would also like to make it clear about the B component. Moreover, this clarity is much greater than that of the A component. The B component is for the King's support. The A component is partly the same, of which staff are also paid. But for the B component, that is much more true, and we have much more insight into that. Insofar as there is no such understanding, I agree with you that it needs to be opened up and made more transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u90	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u91	This is interesting. In any case, we agree that this report by the Beel Committee is a very good example of a document that can be public. I'm happy about that. In my own contribution, I will deal with that component.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u92	Have you finished your speech, Mr Recourt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u93	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. I'll finish up. The king has a very important role in today's polarized society. He's a credible connecter. He's doing a good job with the Queen, and that's gonna be tough in time. I just told you, they live in a glass house. This is also evident from all the publicity surrounding Queen Juliana. There will eventually be very personal matters on the streets and they will not be able to oppose them publicly. Let us, as politicians, at least ensure that the rules are up to date, so that the king is no longer vulnerable in that respect. Clear, transparent, defendable rules are needed. So modernize, preferably already at the coming formation, and thus create the conditions for the king to be able to perform his task optimally now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u94	Mr. Chairman. Premiership will inevitably burn everyone up. Fortunately, he is with whom that is slow and who is sometimes desired back. Those words from the lawyer Donner............................................................................................................................................................... Premiership as a state of grace. That seems to me to be typical. The prime minister can be over and sign the person. After six years of Rutte and with elections in sight, it is time to look back on the leadership of the Prime Minister and his information to this Chamber. The Prime Minister regularly seeks out social contradictions and thus contributes to an atmosphere of hardening and mistrust. Don't call on newcomers to fight, but be ready for them. Don't call out traveling Dutch people to die abroad, but bring them to justice. What happened to that self-declared Prime Minister of all the Dutch? I'd like a reflection. It is perhaps an impossible task, being Prime Minister of all the Dutch without a direct mandate from the electorate. The content of the office has changed considerably. The Prime Minister is increasingly the minister of all matters rather than General Affairs. In Europe, the Prime Minister is the leader of the government. The first among equals, therefore, is less and less so. Elections to the Two Chambers also degenerate into a conflict for prime ministership. Does the Prime Minister, with his six years of experience and after two formations, think that the current way of establishing his position is appropriate at this time, or does it need to be adapted, for example towards an elected Prime Minister? This government is structurally late in answering parliamentary questions. My group's samples have already shown that. A broad study by Leiden University confirms it this summer. Just, I told you, General Affairs responds on time, 15 working days they need, and that's the maximum deadline. Security and Justice seem to lose more than just receipts and e-mails. Answers come on average after 29 working days and that is almost six full weeks. What will the Prime Minister do to improve this? I agree: the blame is not entirely with the government, the Chamber contributes to this with all the questionnaires filled with closed requests. That may be different, but surprise us with a quick and complete answer. Then the confidence to ask one less question will automatically arise. I will send that inquiry and my own summary to the Prime Minister in a moment. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Neither does the handling of the WOB requests deserve a price. The attitude to that is rather lax. At the same time, everything that suits the government has been leaking out impunity for years. Especially in the run-up to Prince's Day, that's a regular ritual. Not the king, but half the truth of the government is in the spotlight. If Prince's Day doesn't lose its value, I wonder. And doesn't it affect the king's position? Why not choose an annual theme that deepens and presents it as a eulogy? That'll get me to the royal house. My mantra is always: do not make the King unnecessarily vulnerable; be proactive and transparent. Over the past year, I have been surprised by this on several occasions. Considering a second hand for a government plane, the renewed website of the archives of the Royal House, the opening of Noordeinde Palace and the stables and of Huis Ten Bosch. Those are wonderful, good examples. My compliments to everyone involved. And maybe go further. Palaces are popular, but so are tombs. Look at Rome. Why don't we, in close consultation with the family, make a digital tour of the royal crypt? Both the New Church in Delft and the tomb itself are now being rebuilt. So it's a good time to do that now. Unfortunately, it often went wrong too. See the restoration of the golden coach, the vacant Greek holiday home, the maintenance of De Groene Draeck, the sale of the painting Boschbrand van Saleh and of other historical artifacts. How could an export permit for these paintings be issued so quickly? What about the mystery surrounding it and things that weren't allowed out? How do we clarify the boundary between state and private property? How does the sale of these items relate to the Heritage Act? I have asked questions together with Mr Monasch of the PvdA, but I want some clarity today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u95	I have a question about D66's plan to see digitally in the tomb of the royal family in Delft. My first reaction was, when I read it in the newspaper: what a nice and interesting idea. My second reaction, however, was of a different nature: for Christ's sake, where is the limit to what is private? This is what we're talking about killing. Isn't this a step too far? Should we make that glass house even more transparent? Can D66 indicate where the border is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u96	I'm talking about a digital tour that gives us insight into our own history. In Rome you can see the coffins of the Popes. There is a lot of interest in this, by the way, but I understand the reluctance. It's Delft that matters to me. The moment one of the royal family dies there is a lot of attention to that and the NOS shows all kinds of pictures of who is actually lying there. That has nothing to do with privacy, nothing to do with, for example, grave desecration or anything like that. I'm talking about increasing historical insight. We know who's lying there, we know what it looks like. We're remodeling now. I just heard the Prime Minister sigh when I called it. He did the same with the idea of opening House Ten Bosch. He didn't like it either. Then he said: that is a private house; Mr Pechtold is an art historian who would like to see the hall of Amalia of Solms. In the meantime, he and I are convinced of the great success of this opening up. We didn't go to the bathroom of that palace. No, we've been looking at the art. I think a lot of Dutch people don't know that we once didn't have a royal house but were a republic. I think a lot of Dutch people don't know how that was between Willem van Oranje and the current Willem-Alexander and how we dealt with Balthasar Gerards and all that other stuff. Now we've got Geeraedtsen doing that. I think we should get a little more insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u97	I also find that historical side very interesting, and many with us. But that tomb isn't just 17th and 18th century, it's been used recently. It is not just about the distant past, it is also about the very recent past. Don't you end up in the private domain too much? Shouldn't we be a little reluctant?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u98	I said, in close consultation with the family. If everyone says "we don't," that's too bad. As a cultural historian, I say, there's an opportunity. As a historian, the Prime Minister could say: it contributes to the knowledge about the origins of our royal family. There are many misunderstandings about that. Take the name "Royal Academy." It was not the Oranges at all, but the Bonapartes who took the initiative. Those were the French kings. There's still a lot of uncertainty. I am concerned with everything that contributes positively to understanding. The reluctance I notice at first always disappears after a while. They say, "God, there's something workable to come up with." That's not a big point; if we don't do it, that's a shame. What was very unfortunate and what I have not yet agreed to is the sale of that stuff. I just want to know what's going on. I am very pleased with the way in which the situation with regard to the Royal House Archive is slowly developing, but I do not understand why Juliana's biography, Withuis, cannot be accessed. That was a fucking NIOD-led investigation. I'm starting to lose track of who does and who doesn't get access. Why not her? Does the Prime Minister think all this fuss is harmful and how will he prevent it from happening in the future? After all, all the polls released this summer about the king and the queen AZ are looking back at the popularity of our royal house. My surprise was when RTL News reported that members of the royal family have been getting their wealth tax back for decades. Even greater was my surprise when the Prime Minister broke "the secret of the palace." He even quoted the king; that's a unique thing, you know! The king seems to have said to him, "John, I don't know anything about anything and neither does my mother." For what the king thinks, feels and means, we have the ministerial responsibility. First of all, I would like to ask what was going on in substance, but also what was going on in procedural terms. Are we gonna hear what the king thinks more often? The government wrote that no evidence of this has been found, but that is something other than that this has not happened. Worrying quotes about the royal family's pressure remain undisputed. Why is there no complete openness? If the Prime Minister doesn't want to do this, others will go into that archive, but that's not my job. These aren't the only questions about the royal family's income. Crown Princess Amalia will receive 2.6 tonnes of salary, tax-free, and 1.2 million euros of clothing and travel money from the age of 18. That's 178 times the minimum wage of an 18-year-old. Brightness! Does the Prime Minister think this is justified? Can he explain this? It is said that we discussed this in 2008, but in the meantime the Prime Minister has passed three laws on top income standards. So apparently the government also felt that something was going on in the public sector. Is the Prime Minister therefore prepared to set up a committee for a full review of the income and allowances of the members of the Royal House in order to bring them to this time and make them future-proof? As far as I am concerned, this is done by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u99	Madam President. Next year is the 100th anniversary of the 1917 Pacific Conference, the year in which we were granted universal suffrage and full educational freedom in the Netherlands, which covered major social and political contradictions. I understand that this is going to be celebrated, and I think it is right. Can the Prime Minister give us a tip of the veil? I would also like to know whether the special nature of the Pacific is central to the celebrations. Democratic freedom and freedom of education are both a civilized way of dealing with differences. I believe that the Pacific has also power of expression at this time, in our sometimes divided society today. I'd like to get a reaction to that. I have two further issues in dealing with this budget: leaks and the royal family. This year, too, there has been a leak for Prinsjesdag; that is now a real tradition. Does the Prime Minister still have the ambition to fight the leak? After six years of discussion with the Chamber, does he have any new ideas about this or throws his hands in the air and surrenders himself to these mischievous practices? My second topic is the royal family. Over the past year, too, His Majesty and his family have proved to serve our country in a very warm and passionate manner. I would like to thank him very much for that. Where the Netherlands has become increasingly divided, the royal house is an important symbol of unity and solidarity. It connects us to our common past. With that, the royal family, as far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, is a blessing. I would like to say to the public and latent Republicans among us: compare this with a presidential system which now divides the United States to the bone, for example. It is precisely because of this important role of the royal family that I would like to ask the Prime Minister to be careful with the members of it. It is extremely damaging if incidents and discussions about financial agreements are brought together, for example about the allowance of the Crown Princess. We ask the princess to prepare herself for a difficult task and put her life in service to all of us. I believe that this includes appropriate funding from her staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr Segers made a link with the Republic. He said: look at republics and how things are arranged there. Presidents, however, are politicians. They are often bound by far-reaching rules of transparency than our royal family. Does the Christian Union not agree that, apart from the level of costs, there should be more transparency about the benefits to the Royal House?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u101	Transparency has always been an important criterion in the regulation for the Royal House. It should stay that way. If there is a fog, for example about the tax arrangements of the 1970s, then it must be put on the table. There must be complete clarity about this. The debate with the Prime Minister can then take place today. He'll have to stand in front of the Royal House. The facts have to be on the table. It must be absolutely clear and transparent, because it is taxpayers' money. However, my comparison concerned the function of the royal family. A royal house is much more binding than a presidential system, which divides much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u102	I think Mr Segers was also talking about the costs of a republic and of the Royal House, but perhaps I misunderstood him. I am glad that he also thinks that there should be more transparency. He mentioned the example of the tax deal. In the Wet norming top incomes we have rules for declarations of directors. Does Mr Segers think we should have similar rules for the Royal House?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u103	Let me start with the first point. I didn't refer to the cost. I was talking more about the function and functioning of the royal family. But compare the costs with a country like France. There you have not one royal house, but several royal houses, because every president keeps his entourage and allowance. That's a lot more expensive than the royal house we have. Moreover, the functioning of our royal house is much more beneficial and more binding compared to what we see in France and certainly in the United States. That was my heart cry. You make clear agreements about transparency, but there's a limit somewhere. If the call is for the king to file his claims with a mileage fee, I'm going too far. You have to treat equal cases equally, but this is a very special case. This is a special family with a special task. There is also a system of its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u104	We are dealing with people who perform a public function. We expect people in other public functions to be transparent. We don't even know about the members of the Royal House exactly what personnel costs are paid out of the post. We do know what is not paid out, because it is in the budget, but not what things are paid out. That's crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u105	It must be transparent, explanatory and explanatory, and the Prime Minister must do so in particular, but it does have a limit. We ask a family to commit to the national cause and public interest for a lifetime and also for generations. We ask of a very young girl, unless Mrs Voortman says: I do not want to commit to serving our country. That is a big, penetrating and important question. That is a task that the present king and queen perform with grace. This includes a special arrangement. We should not compare this with people who voluntarily join a board of directors or a supervisory board forever up to the mileage. I believe that the Prime Minister should ensure that, even at the end of time, such arrangements have sufficient political support and support, otherwise he will make the royal family vulnerable, regardless of the fact that from the point of view of austerity you can make comments about the amount of the allowance. In the same vein, I was surprised at the way the Prime Minister spoke at the press conference about the supposed tax rebate that the king would get and the knowledge that the king would have. I understand that he felt the need to speak about this, but by speaking so frankly and exonerating about what the king did and did not know, the Prime Minister makes it very vulnerable. I'm worried about that. I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister is now having a closer examination of the arrangements made in order to assess exactly what is going on. That seems important to me. Finally. What could possibly really help us is a critical review of the system of financing that is already decades old. What could also help us is what I call a "new pace." That relieves us of the incidents surrounding a renovation, fees, carriages, boats and houses. It helps the royal family to do what they already do so wonderfully, namely connect our society and represent our country elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u106	We're talking about kingship today. I heard the VVD say that she is very happy with our Royal House and our monarchy, because they are important for the BV Netherlands. It is fantastic that all state visits are also always trade missions. The Prime Minister always thinks it's important to make money together around the world. I'm a little annoyed by that. I look forward to Mr Segers' opinion on this. Our Royal House, our king, is not more than the extension of national business? Kingship is more than just making money, isn't it? Does Mr Segers also feel the inconvenience that our Royal House has actually become part of BV Nederland?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u107	I feel the inconvenience already with the term "BV Nederland." I'm already uncomfortable with that. We're not e.g. We're not a trade mission. We are a community of law. We're a society. We're seeing each other. So my appreciative words about the royal family concerned the role it plays in our society, namely connecting. It connects us with the past and with each other. Newcomers identify very quickly with the royal family. It's their king, too. This helps newcomers to really feel Dutch. We would never have invented it like this, but it works fantastic in every respect. I'm incredibly grateful for it, and I even called it a blessing. The way in which we can employ the members of the Royal House to serve society should not be controversial. Connecting isn't controversial. Joining a trade mission and opening doors that otherwise remain closed is not controversial to me either. I fully agree with Mr Van Raak that this is not the primary purpose of the Royal House. If the Royal House helps to open doors that remain closed to our Prime Minister, I also count my blessings in that respect and I think it is a fine addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u108	I find it difficult to talk about the way the king plays his ceremonial role, because it is not possible to agree on this. I also grant the king a great deal of space to fill this in in a way that suits him well as a person. But the Prime Minister should, of course, be directing and offering a helping hand. I do see a lot of Rutte and VVD back in the Royal House, because I just think it's flat. There is always talk about the Royal House as follows: it generates money and opens doors at companies. If we have a head of state, of course, that's a lot more. I see that Mr Segers agrees with that. I am also curious about the Prime Minister's view. How does he see the kingship anyway? Is that the extension of Dutch business or is it something more? I'd like to hear that in his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u109	I don't see this as a contradiction. Connecting society and helping to open doors elsewhere go hand in hand as far as I'm concerned. But the primary function is what I mentioned first and again here, namely that the royal house is an institution of bonding in a sometimes very divided society. That's the blessing I've counted. This is not at odds and is also not contrary to a serving function in opening doors abroad. However, that is not the primary objective. I agree with Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u110	I object to a very selective quote being made in this debate. That happened again. I have begun very clearly with the fact that our royal house is a connecting factor. In addition, the royal family plays a different role. We may differ on the wording in this respect, but let us acknowledge that above all. This is not the first time that this debate has mentioned tax avoidance. That's what just happened. It seemed as if my group chairman would have said so, but he said: first the facts on the table and then the judgment. Of course, the VVD is against tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u111	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr. Chairman. "Dreesian austerity," the Prime Minister talked about it when he talked about the royal family. He found the fact that the king is currently carrying out his work in a "container"........ witnesses of Dreesian austerity. That container was built for an amount of 4 tonnes by the most sought after architect's office in the Netherlands. If we gave all students in the Netherlands the same Dreesian sober container, the State would be a conservative 280 billion euro poorer. GroenLinks would really like to see Dreesian austerity in the finances of the Royal House. GroenLinks likes to see more transparency, because where public money is spent, accountability needs to be provided. GroenLinks therefore finds it strange that in the early 1970s a tax deal would have been made with the Royal House to compensate for the limited amount of tax it does pay. It is already excluded from inheritance tax, income tax and gift tax. Is that a little bit of capital tax really too much to ask for? It is even more remarkable as far as GroenLinks is concerned that the Prime Minister in his department has not been able to find any proof of this. Does the Prime Minister argue that RTL's information is incorrect? Is there no information on this in the archives of the Royal House? Isn't that an additional reason to consider publishing documents of public interest from that archive? Is this Prime Minister, unlike his predecessor, prepared to implement the Kalsbeek motion from 2005? In this motion, the government is requested to transfer documents of public interest to the National Archives in the Royal House Archive. Is the Prime Minister prepared to send the notes he quotes in his letter on the tax deal to the Chamber in their entirety? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the Royal House, like all other Dutch people, is going to pay taxes on everything. The Prime Minister objects that it is the king's right not to do so and that this is enshrined in the Constitution. That is indeed a problem that needs to be addressed. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to submit an amendment to this effect. Is he willing to do that? The king's financial position is accountable. That's not happening right now. How great are the powers of the Royal House? How exactly is the B component of benefits, the money for so-called material and human costs, spent? Many of the costs incurred by the Royal House are already paid directly from the treasury. A total of 27.7 million euros will be spent on the Royal House Service. Drivers, drivers, maintenance staff, mechanics, maintenance of the palaces, security, information of the National Information Service, wildlife management, air travel, administration: all these items are paid directly from the budget and not from the allowances of the members of the Royal House. I therefore find it difficult to get a picture of the human and material expenses of the members of the Royal House who are not paid directly from the treasury. And that while the King's B component is 4.7 million a year and for Princess Amalia after her 18th 1.2 million. Those are not modest amounts. Can the Prime Minister give examples of the costs to be reimbursed by this part of the benefit? What is paid out of these amounts? Can the Court now understand the use of that part of the benefit? As politicians and rulers, we must declare our expenditure carefully and justify it publicly. Then why shouldn't the King? It is a question of taxpayers' money in both cases. I'd like to get a reaction to this. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the Dreesian austerity is far removed from the King's budget. I wonder if Willem Drees could agree to this appropriation of his thoughts by his successor. I therefore hope that the Prime Minister will explain in his reply how he came to this wonderful conclusion. At the same time, the royal house should be a reflection of society and a beacon of moral leadership for the country. This starts with regard to GroenLinks when observing the same austerity and tax liability imposed on equally hardworking Dutch citizens by the government. Above all, there must be openness about the expenditure of the Royal House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u113	Mrs. Van der Burg. Oh, no, Mr Recourt. I just saw Mrs. Van der Burg walking by, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u114	It's the coalition. Dreesian austerity and transparency appeal to me. But now, the B component. How does Mrs. Voortman see it? The B component is different from the A component. Of the B component, staff is paid, and that's just on the state payroll. Out of my mind, that's 250 people, but I can be wrong about that, because that's what I'm saying from a gray past. So I don't understand the pervasiveness of the questions, as if it were a dim, dark area the king himself is about. Isn't it the State itself that employs all those people, pays them and thereby supports the king and the kingship?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u115	I believe that there is a total of 27.7 million in the budget, but I would like to get rid of that. It concerns the part of the benefit for material and human costs. That's a fair amount of money. I heard about this for the first time a long time ago and thought: he has to pay a lot of people so it makes sense that it is a bit higher. But now all kinds of posts that people think should be paid from that benefit appear to be already on the budget. So I would like to know what that part of the benefit is spent on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u116	Mrs Voortman asked me a question about the declarations; now the other way around. Much more transparency has come about the financing of the royal family. There are demands for this and they are discussed here. But now there are new demands. That raises the question: does GroenLinks even want a royal house?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u117	I can be very brief about that. GroenLinks does indeed want the Netherlands to become a republic in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u118	Isn't it much more honest to make a proposal and say: boys, we just want to get rid of it? Instead, GroenLinks comes up with all sorts of small proposals and, to quote another group chairman, 'ditjes en datjes', whereas it really wants to get rid of the whole institution. Surely it is far more honest to make that proposal than to make the functioning of the Royal House very difficult every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u119	I see that as two different things. The moment you have a royal home, I think it should be as transparent as possible. I've just made the comparison with administrators and politicians. The moment you don't have a king's house anymore, that discussion is no longer a matter for discussion. But as long as we have a royal house, we believe that the same rules should apply as far as possible to the rulers and politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u120	The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance calls for suspicion to come up with occasional arguments every time to gnaw at the roots of the monarchy. When we stand before the monarchy, we must also put a fence around it and say: now one must be able to function freely. If you gnaw at the roots every time by making new demands, those occasional arguments seem to be for a higher purpose, or a lower purpose................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u121	I think that's a very strange reasoning. The positions taken by GroenLinks in recent years on many issues, such as the Top Income Standards Act and the Public Administration Act, show that we strongly support greater transparency and democratic control of directors and politicians. That's where this fits seamlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u122	Madam President. I'd like to begin with a quote from Queen Juliana. She said when accepting her kingship in 1948: "Sedest the day before yesterday I was called to a task so heavy that no one who thought of it for a moment would desire it, but also so beautiful that I can only say, "Who am I, that I may do this?" It indicates that it is a beautiful and glorious ministry and seems, but that it also requires sacrifices and not all that is gold is shining. Still, even now, the monarchy, our royal house has an important linking role in our Dutch society and it is our business card abroad. I think this is an extremely important and valuable role. We can all criticise the exercise, one or the other, but our great appreciation of the binding role is still paramount. Unfortunately, there's always a lot of stuff about money. Today, too, this is an important item on the agenda. Let me say first of all that this is also about public money and that it is right that the finger should be kept on the wrist. This is also part of a constitutional monarchy and a parliamentary system with ministerial responsibility for the Royal House. At the same time, we must realise that a fair degree of freedom for the establishment of our own house is an important constitutional point of departure, Article 41 of our constitution, and that it does not tolerate asking questions from Parliament on every small part. In addition, it is difficult in the context of the prevention of hassle that we have a very different assessment of the monarchy. The same applies to the amount involved: the fat 40 million per year. Do you think that's a lot? It's just what you compare it with. The Ukraine referendum cost 30 million. A year of monarchy is even cheaper than two referendums in a year. You don't have a Rembrandt for it yet. So it's just what you value very much. In a way, we'll never make it all the way out of there. I think it's fair to say that. The same applies to those who are defiantly Republican and continue to worry about the vulnerability of the royal family. That reminds me of a pyromaniac who worries about fire safety every time. I see Mr Pechtold coming in now, Mr President, but that is a coincidence. Transparency is important in the common interest in preventing hassle. I think that's an important blow. For the sake of balance, let me praise the critical parties who have been at the forefront of achieving this. Show the costs in the budget as clearly as possible. That is the first important point. The second way in which in the past has been tried to avoid hassle. I just indicated it in an interruption... is by passing through important laws such as the Law Financial Statute of the Royal House all parties and thoroughly checking where the sensitivities lie. I've been there myself on the last update of the law. However, we must note that this is working less and less. There are rapid changes in parliament and also rapid changes in the way you look at the system. My question to the Prime Minister is how he deals with it. The old system, we look at it once every few years and then it doesn't work well anymore or doesn't work properly. What opportunities does he see to gain a somewhat wider support for the laws and the amount of amounts as foreseen today? A final comment on this section concerns the issue of duty-free. I have noticed that, unfortunately, this has not yet been clarified. I hope that the historical research can shed light on this as soon as possible. So much for my comments on the budget of the Royal House, Mr President. I have one comment to make on the unity of government policy. This is more about the area of General Affairs. This year we have the special situation of a very long election campaign, the run-up to the elections, which gives a special dimension to the role of the Prime Minister as guardian of the unity of cabinet policy. How does he see this role of maintaining the unity of government policy in such a long period in the run-up to the elections, in which more and more different views of rulers are emerging? I wonder how the Prime Minister will deal with these risks in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u123	I smelled some fire somewhere. I have a question for Mr Van der Staaij because D66 and the SGP are not surprising to me, but for the outside world it may be possible to meet on matters of state law. Then we often agree. I have just expressed my surprise at the Prime Minister quoting the King and also share with us information on the views of the previous queen. For me, this was a breakthrough in the armor that brings with it ministerial responsibility, namely never suggesting or speculating about it. Members of parliament were killed for it, so to share feelings of the Royal House after contact with the outside world. How does Mr Van der Staaij look back on the Prime Minister's frankness?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u124	I have to say that the urge to offer as much openness and transparency as possible is enormous, including from this Chamber. In this respect, I can imagine that you are looking for the limits to give as much clarity as possible as quickly as possible. But I think it was vulnerable in this case, especially because it did not settle the plea and it still continues. It is now also the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u125	Mr. Chairman. My group is in favour of ceremonial kingship and against the current excessive cost of our monarchy. The House of Orange is one of the most expensive royal houses in Europe. Total expenditure exceeds EUR 100 million per year. Excessive spending on sailing yachts, palaces and holiday villas, the members of the Royal House have been with them for years in the newspapers and magazines. And this year, too, it was hit again. For decades, the Oranges have received considerable compensation for paying taxes, an extremely dubious and secret construction, hidden somewhere in the National Archives. Even the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the King would have known nothing. Professor De Bont even called the issue "ridiculous folklore." We agree with him. Stop this absurd scheme, as almost 80% of the Dutch want. My group has asked the Prime Minister for a letter. In that letter he writes that there is no evidence for this compensation scheme. But the evidence is just on RTL News' site. Why does this Prime Minister create fog again? Why isn't he telling the truth? I'd like a substantive response. A majority of the Dutch love our royal house, but the sympathy for the monarchy is severely affected by these shady matters. We say: Let the King and other members of the Royal House pay the same tax as other Dutchmen. No more exemptions. No more excessive benefits. And Princess Amalia doesn't have to get 1.5 million euros a year after her 18th birthday. This royal edition can't defend anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u126	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
