ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u1	At this farewell of Diederik Samsom I begin reading the farewell letter of Diederik. Dear President, dear Khadija, Disappointed? Of course. Sad? Yes, of course. But mostly grateful. Thank you for the many beautiful years that I was allowed to be a member of the House of Representatives. People's representative on behalf of the Labour Party. Standing on the shoulders of giants, reaching for new ideals. Sometimes successful, often in vain, but always in the knowledge that it is not a right but a privilege to serve the public interest. And that it could end every day. That moment has come for me now. It's been wonderful years. With beautiful moments, with lesser moments and with those moments that you would like to have a trapdoor installed behind the speaker seat in which you can disappear unseen. From those moments you learn by far the most. Like that night of the Spring Agreement in April 2012. The PvdA was out of it, I swung hopelessly on the interrupting microphone and the newspapers judged mercilessly the next day. But it was precisely that evening that the basis was laid for a constructive parliamentary policy that has determined the past period. On that evening I learned the hard lesson of what politicians are asked to do to help the Netherlands. The ability to walk together, to accept part of each other equally, to overcome taboos and to break boundaries between coalition and opposition. To make its own electoral interest subordinate to the general interest. It worked. See how the Netherlands was in 2012. And look at the situation now. It should silence the cynics forever, if it is not that politics is more than results. Politics is also about rapture, inspiration, fear and hope. And we've failed in that. I've failed in that. I have failed to win people for the strength of the compromise, for the beauty of listening to each other rather than shouting at each other and for the promise of working together instead of standing together for life. Eventually, that shortcoming was the basis for my early departure. But the good news is you're all still here. So if at my farewell I could give you another cry of hearts, it would be this. Keep trying. Do not fall back into the reflex of the scoring drive based on one-liners rather than real progress. Resistance to the sirens of the enticing megaphone politics. There is no shortage of megaphones in this climate of hardening and polarization, there is a lack of nuance. Keep looking for that nuance. Keep looking for each other. Keep finding each other. For the sake of the future. I'm gonna try to serve that interest outside the arena for the time being. Maybe our paths are still intersecting. All I have to do is thank all my colleagues for the good years and the good cooperation. With special thanks to the fellow group chairmen with whom I worked intensively. At the moments when we managed to escape the scorching media logic, your warm colleagues who could often move through their own experience as no one else in the sometimes plight of the other turned out to be. Too bad we managed to escape so little from that compelling The Hague corset. An auditor of power generally thanks no rulers at his farewell. But since I have already been accused by the 13th Minister, I dare to make an exception and address myself specifically to Mark Rutte. Dear Mark, much has already been said and written about our relationship and almost all of it is true. Condemned by the electorate, held together by a rare combination of maximum differences of opinion and maximum mutual trust. At the same time, it was exhausting and very inspiring. I cherish the memory of a special collaboration with a special person. I also thank the friends of the media. Let us take advantage of this moment of reflection to forgive each other generously our mutual lewdness. In any case, I have developed more understanding in recent years for the struggle of parliamentary journalists. The commandment to play soccer in the clutches of daily news hype seems to be becoming more and more compelling. This is best summarized by the comment of an Amsterdam editor-in-chief against his parliamentary reporter, who wants room for an important revelation: "Are you sure that's news? I haven't read it anywhere else." Finally, I take a deep bow for all employees of the House of Representatives, for their never-ending kindness, their tireless service and above all for the rest you keep at the moment that hyperventilation once again overpowers politics. You are of vital importance to the MPs and to the political process. We all owe you infinite thanks. With a mixture of melancholy, pride and perhaps a bit of relief I leave this beautiful institution, which for fifteen years controlled my life. On the way to something new. Take care of yourself. Sincerely, Diederik Samsom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u2	Dear Lord Samsom, dear Diederik, As a child, you devoured the book Children of Mother Earth from Thea Beckman: a future novel that takes place on the island of Greenland, where ice caps and glaciers have melted, women wave the scepter and there is no violence. Probably the basis for your inspiration for everything that has to do with the world has been laid there. You've always carried this spirit with you in your professional life. After your activist years at Greenpeace, you switched to The Hague in 2003. "To make the world a little better," you said. Your dream image of the Netherlands was and is: a country that excels in optimism, cooperation and interconnectedness. A country where collective prosperity requires individual wealth. You came to the Lower House on 30 January 2003, then with curls. You became a spokesperson for environmental policy. Your maiden speech, which was about animal testing, you concluded with a quote from Loesje: "You only use mice to test cheese." As a member of parliament, you provided wireless internet in intercity's and were at the basis of the Heat Act, which was adopted in 2009. In 2012 you became chairman of the political group. According to Ariejan Korteweg, journalist at the Volkskrant, at that time you were "a young but experienced MP, who thought so quickly that sometimes he seemed to stumble over his words and enthusiasm. One of the red engineers, men who wanted to show that the PvdA is also a party of doers, of practical solutions to lingering problems." With that same pragmatism, you entered the negotiations. In cooperation with the VVD, you saw an opportunity to make late maintenance and create stability. You said it had to be done. The country was in crisis and the voter had condemned the VVD and the PvdA. It wasn't your easiest years. It's not for nothing that you were talking about "shackling" when you re-enlisted for the list-toppering. If there's anything that characterizes you, it's that you're a fighter. You've lost your curls by now, but your unwieldy energy isn't. You're tireless and combative. This proved to be the case in recent campaign weeks. On 8 October of this year you did Apeldoorn, Deventer, Zutphen, Bronckhorst, Doetinchem and Oude IJsselstreek. Assuming you start and end up in Leiden, you're talking about a five-hour and two-minute journey. You didn't care. You're the type of person who refuses to accept that a day only counts for 24 hours. "Impossible" or "unattainable" does not appear in your dictionary. The urge to win was early in the day. That was already true with physics. At the age of 16, you skated on your own the Elfstedentocht. That was at a time when the Rayon heads in Friesland didn't think the "Tocht der Tochten" was justified. You drove him all the way out. That wasn't because of your great style.We saw that recently at the ice rink in Groningen next to Lodewijk Asscher: a little bambimoment, but purely on strength and perseverance. And later at TU Delft, a student house had to be renovated quickly. Your fellow students complained. "We'll never make it," they said. You stood on a chair and said, "We're just gonna do that in two days." And that's how it happened. Eric Wiebes, the other engineer, was a witness. As MP, you won the National Newsquiz twice! The National IQ Test and the Great History quiz. That was the only time the group intervened and banned you from playing games. That was because you won every time; we found that embarrassing. You may be the only Dutchman who can get on his iPad any research and every figure the government produces within seconds. Usually that's not necessary, because everything's already in your head. The Scientific Council for Government Policy can discuss this. A delegation of professors asked you for your opinion on their new research proposal a few years ago. Then you said, "But did you examine that in 2004?" It turned out to be true. You added an oral summary for free. Also in the Chamber we saw that drive for performance. Sometimes that led to friction, even within your own group. But it also shone. Your drive made it possible to find solutions to complicated political problems, like the Turkey deal. With Jesse Klaver you submitted an initiative proposal on measures under the Paris climate agreements. And with Gert-Jan Segers, you recently drew up an initiative paper to bring back the inspiration in public tasks with cooperative governance. Dear Diederik, Politics can be beautiful. "Police doesn't divide, it connects," you said in 2012 at the PvdA formation congress. That's the connection you've been trying to find. It didn't bring you what you were hoping for. Politics can sometimes be harsh, uncertain and lonely. In an interview in Trouw you said that people can blame you for not achieving the ideals of the Labour Party quickly enough. But it doesn't say anything about your intentions, about what drives you inside. I want to thank you for your passion and commitment in all those years that you wanted to make a difference from the inside out. I'll end with a quote from Loesje: "If you let go, you have two hands free." If anyone's resilient, it's you. And whatever the future brings, whatever those two free hands are gonna take, I'm sure you're gonna have a lot of good things to do. Take care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-6.u3	This is a bit of a strange transition: from such an emotional farewell to the order of the day.
