ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The European Union is in a worrying state. I say this with pain in the heart, because we Dutch too have nothing better than this Union if we want to safeguard our values and our interests. A strong Europe is now needed to play a role in the world alongside America and China and to maintain a balanced relationship with Russia; integrated foreign and defence policy, integrated euro policy, integrated surveillance of external borders. That is our ambition. We stand for a strong Europe that offers hope rather than grumpy. How did we get into the current worrying situation? The memoirs of one of the founding fathers of European integration, Jean Monnet, ended with a simple call: il faut continuer, more continuous, more continuous! Successive Europeans have taken this to heart. The talent of politicians and officials, the talent of what we sometimes call a collective name 'Brussels', has always been to deal with conflicts between Member States, to bend them in a technocratic process and thereby render them harmless. That was the process of what is called 'constructive ambiguity', constructive ambiguity, with which we always overcome conflicts and progressed. That hasn't worked for a long time. The project suffers from serious lack of confidence because too many people are unable or unwilling to identify with it, because it does not produce sufficiently visible results for them, because it does not inspire enough, because it does not invite enough solidarity and a sense of destiny. In order to avoid misunderstandings: good work is being done in Europe and every day someone urges us to tell this too. However often you notice that Europe does bring us something good, that we owe Europe well-being and prosperity, peace and security, these are all facts which, unfortunately, are now blowing away like echoes in a storm of discontent, of impotence and sometimes even of outright anger. At this point I could ask the government what it intends to do about this, but I realize that that is relatively cowardly. Let us be honest: most people in this house are struggling with this one way or another, and it is a poor consolation that it is no different in many other Member States. What I would like to hear from the government is why it says so little about this, let alone offers some insight into the search directions. The State of the Union says that "it is precisely in these times that it is important to keep a cool head, to recognise legitimate concerns and to work together with all 28 list states in order to tackle problems effectively and make Europe work better." Well, keep a cool head and pull together, our group can always agree with that. But what else? The refugee crisis has revealed more dramatic than all other issues that the good old engine room is no longer working. In the past, you would have said that Europe needed that kind of crisis to emerge stronger by the Monnet method. Throw away the contradictions between Member States and political forces in the Brussels engine room and there will come out something that is binding and connecting everyone, and with which we can move forward. No one's gonna believe this anymore. I do not want to repeat all the debates of the House of Representatives on the refugee crisis. If I understand correctly, we are putting all the cards on an agreement with Turkey, which must keep the borders closed for us. With admirable perseverance, Chancellor Merkel took another step in that yesterday, just like our Prime Minister; at least, let us hope so. However, the question remains whether gambling in Turkey is not an extremely fragile and fragile basis for a solution. After all, we are becoming dependent on the lazyness of an authoritarian, populist regime that European Member States can easily play against each other, which knows that despite all the fine words, it will not be a member of the European Union in the foreseeable future and that Syria will have all kinds of apples that are not ours. A much more solid basis would provide a strong common external border, with a European border guard and decisive powers, not only towards potential immigrants, but also towards Member States that have to surrender sovereignty. We will then be able to direct more ourselves in Europe and we will be less a toy of others. Last autumn, the Commission put forward a detailed plan for this. If I have understood correctly the last informal Council of the Minister for the Interior, we are still no further than probes into how far-reaching measures of this kind fall on Member States. That is a long way from decision-making between the Council, the Commission and Parliament, let alone the introduction of directives. Meanwhile, we are doing it with a European 'border surveillance', called Frontex, of several hundred people. What kind of timetable does the government work here? I do not want to talk again about the distribution of refugees between the European Member States. According to many, that plan is actually dead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr Knapen wonders why we should cooperate with Turkey. He said we should do it ourselves by means of a European border guard. The EU is now committed to immediately sending the people arriving back to Turkey, perhaps after a brief examination in an asylum procedure. Isn't that why you need Turkey? Is it not a good idea for Mr Knapen to work together to send rejected asylum seekers back to Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u4	What you need to tackle this problem is easier said than done, let me say in advance. That is indeed an agreement with Turkey. That is also a powerfully authoritative border surveillance, because without powerful authoritative border surveillance you are at the mercy of Turkey, without being able to establish your own strong position. Furthermore, you need an adequate registration, allowing you to filter faster or not which people are entitled to stay and not. Finally, you need joint hard agreements on the return of non-honored immigrants to the countries of origin. That too can only be done in conjunction. When only a country strives to do so, you generally do not have the power to do so with a country where a refugee must be returned. I think it's a combination of those things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u5	I understand that Mr Knapen considers cooperation with Turkey to be important, also because not everyone is an economic migrant and Europe wants to send refugees back to Turkey. That cooperation is therefore necessary. Is he in favour of a generous and substantial resettlement scheme from Turkey to Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u6	Yes, but these are relatively general concepts. If you ask me if I am in favour of mercy, it is rather difficult to say that I do not feel that much. We are in favour of mercy, but in the end all these matters are a matter of consideration. Right now, we're in the middle of that process. I find it difficult to anticipate agreements with Turkey, because there were only a few general statements made late last night and this morning. I think it is important to note that an agreement with Turkey, or an agreement with any other country, can only be made authoritative and effective from a position when you have those other things in order. If Mrs Strik asks me if I am in favour of this agreement with Turkey, I would be careful to ensure that, of the four pillars I mentioned, this 25%, this agreement with Turkey, is absolutely 100% of what needs to be done. It's just part of what needs to be done, and it's gaining in strength by organizing those other things as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u7	I will not talk very quickly about mercy in these matters, but I will talk about a generous resettlement policy from Turkey. I hope that, in the end, the CDA will agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u8	We have a great weakness for the word'merci'. Let's just leave it at that. As I said, I do not want to talk about the distribution of refugees between European Member States, because that plan is actually dead. Central European Member States are not or barely participating. Moreover, neither refugees nor the United Kingdom, unless you would call the offer to take up 20,000 Syrian refugees over a five-year period, i.e. 4,000 per year, a gesture of solidarity. What I would like to mention here is how much the refugee crisis exposes the State of the Union in no way. The differences between the 28 Member States are large, political, cultural and mental. Central European countries have not become members to continue to integrate into one Europe, but are members to ensure their own national identity after having first emerged from the Habsburg multi-population structure and later from the Soviet occupation. We simply cannot imagine the inward orientation. If 20 years ago we had thought seriously that you could expand and deepen the European Union and at the same time deepen it, then the tragedy of the refugees illustrates how much that has failed. Conversely, we have moral sympathy for Chancellor Merkel when she welcomed all the refugees last summer, but that was irresponsible from a central European perspective. Also that brand reflex was essentially deep national in nature, driven by its own German psychology collective. Not by chance, for example, in French diplomatic circles, it remained deafeningly silent. In fact, the French translation of "wir verkoop tie" is still awaited. Anyone talking about the State of the Union must pay attention to the euro. That's where you can compliment the government. Those who had predicted ten years ago that we would now have a strengthened Stability Pact, a joint rescue fund for euro countries, the ESM, joint banking supervision, joint rules for bank capital buffers, a bank rescue fund, a six-pack or a two-pack would have been said to be crazy. Still, there's all of that ten years later. Our Finance Minister is now a valued foreman of the euro. I myself have been through these ECOFIN meetings on behalf of the European Investment Bank over the last few years and can report from my own observation that he has developed authority there. Nevertheless, the euro is also the subject of false appearances. You have not read so much about it in recent months, but the euro is still not sufficiently anchored to survive a next crisis. Growth in the euro area has been lagging behind the non-euro countries in the West since the financial crisis. At the same time, we note that there is a general need for reform, which is precisely what is needed to boost competitiveness. For example, France still has unit labour costs close to 10% above those of Germany. In Italy this is more than 10% and it is therefore not surprising that unemployment there remains persistently above 10%. The European Central Bank is trying to eliminate the euro economy by means of a buy-back programme of bonds. That's a perilous adventure. Pension funds and insurances see their income dry up. It's raining bad news for our pensions this month. With free money, investment decisions are made on the basis of irrational pricing of capital. Moreover, it removes the pressure on governments to reform. In some cultures people who no longer get interest on their savings by going to save even more, because otherwise they are short and they do not trust it. In other cultures, the response to free money is to make one of even more debts and why not? In a way, the ECB conducts the right policy for a country that does not exist. I realise that our government cannot comment on this because the ECB is independent. However, I would like to express our concern about the wisdom of ECB policy here. For many Dutch people, this free money is gradually becoming an expensive joke. The Five Presidents' Report, a personal report by Jean-Claude Juncker, tries to provide relief for the failing economic governance of the euro countries. Our government has made a useful contribution to this. The recommendations in that report for the short term are relatively minimal, but they have already led to concrete proposals from the committee. This includes the design of the European Semester with more attention to the coherence in the euro area and on model arrangements for budgetary consultations between the Commission and national parliaments. The cabinet is right to question the proposed creation in the Five Presidents' Report of a European Budget Council, a European Fiscal Board, in particular its independence and its precise role. A good idea seems to be the plea in this report for one external representation of the euro in the IMF, although I still have a few questions. How does that work for the europ group's voting rights, knowing that the United States still has veto voting rights after the reform of the IMF? Should euroland be able to do so in the near future, given its size? What does this mean for those countries which are still in the hands of the electoral groups? Our country, as we know, has a multitude of countries which have been represented by the Netherlands to our satisfaction for many years and with which we have established special ties. How's that gonna go? Having said that, much more important are of course the somewhat vaguer yet directional proposals from the Five Presidents' Report after 2017. They are heading towards a kind of euro-minster of finance for the euro area with its own budget. According to various economists, this is wise, because then you will have more tools in your hands to deal with shocks and imbalances. By analogy with America: if there is a lot of unemployment in Texas and little in Michigan then the federal unemployment box helps to balance Michigan and Texas and give federal spending a dorky Texas a push in the back. Cycle stabilization is what economists call it. The French Minister for Economic Affairs, Emmanuel Macron, goes a little further and calls for a more long-term transfer of European funds. He says, "Without transfers, the periphery cannot be integrated and you get political divergence to the extremes." Without the next major step, he says, we are already in the process of dismantling the euro. The Dutch cabinet does not feel anything for such a euro minister of finance, nor for a common budget, because none of this is necessary, our government says. After all, if everyone abides by the Stability Pact and carries out reforms, if you have a banking union, if you have a capital market union and if you have a fund in the back to save countries in need and to help banks in need, then you have enough shock breakers to cope with a new crisis. So it's not cyclical stabilisation, it's shock absorbers. We can agree with this, but this is based on the assumption that everyone abides by the agreements. The question is: how do you arrange for everyone to keep their end of the bargain? Let us be honest: for next year I see France, Italy and Spain breaking the Pact again. That is 50% of the euro economy. Of course, at the end there will be all kinds of complex reasonings to explain that it is logical and that one deficit is not the other. The Italian Prime Minister has already stated that he would rather exceed the Stability Pact than let all kinds of populist movements flourish. Instead of reforming the judiciary and public administration, Italy reduces the tax on property ownership. A tried and tested recipe from Berlusconi, by the way, but not something you expect from a country with a government debt of almost 135%. Now several economists are not tired of explaining to us that it is good for the economy that countries spend more money. However, they lack the essence of the matter, namely that the stability of a currency is not based on economic reasoning but on confidence, on institutional confidence to do what you agree. How satisfied is our government actually with the current Stability Pact? Is it conceivable that the answer to this question from the mouth of a Dutch Finance Minister could be different from the answer from the mouth of the President of the Europgroup? The strength and charm of the European Union were always that it was a peace project. When it came to foreign policy, it was about soft power. Our rules of play, our rule of law and our social market economy all attracted the outside world and gave us influence. The Union is good at that, too. But we now live in a much rawer world with geopolitical tensions, with proxy wars, with ticking time bombs in African cities and with religiously inspired terrorism. To protect and promote our interests and values in such an environment, we need a strong Europe. Soft power alone isn't enough. The idea that the United States will continue to take the military chestnuts out of the fire for us has indeed gradually become an illusion. In Europe, since 2007, we have known the so-called EU Battlegroups for a short period of ten years, intended for rapid commitment to managing crises. Now you might think: EU Battlegroups, I hear so little about that? That's right, because although there's no shortage of crises, they've never been deployed, never. Slow decision-making, lack of clarity about cost sharing, lack of opportunities for follow-up, all of this makes EU Battlegroups a fiction so far. There is also little foreign policy. Ukraine has for some time had an EU security advisory team with a budget of EUR 3 million and EUR 3 million. In Niger, an epicenter of instability on the southern border of the Sahara, there is an advisory team of no more than sixty people. Nearby, in Cameroon, the Americans still help with 300 men to fight Boko Haram. The Europeans have no one at all. I can go on like this for a long time. How does our government view the state of the Union in this area? Does she see possibilities to give a push in the desired direction here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u9	I am listening with great interest to Mr Knapen's speech, especially on this point. The Netherlands also has a certain history on this file of non-predominantness. All these decisions are preceded by political will. I will argue this myself later. Do I hear Mr Knapen say that he really advocates a political will to shape that defence cooperation? He's ridiculing a little something that doesn't happen. Well, that's what's up against what's supposed to happen. Did I hear him say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u10	The answer is twofold. The first part is simple: yes. The second is that I will come back to that later. How does the government view the state of the Union in this area? Does she see possibilities to give a push in the desired direction here? Gradually, citizens realize that they are living in a more dangerous time and that defence expenditure needs to be adjusted accordingly. Only the question remains where you spend it, who you do it with and how you can make a fist. In this respect, the French appeal was surprising immediately after the attacks on the EU in Paris on 13 November. The French President did not appeal to NATO through Article 5, but to the European Union through Article 42 (7) of the Lisbon Treaty. It states that EU Member States will provide assistance and assistance by all means in their capacity if a Member State is a victim of armed aggression on its territory. How does the Dutch government view this? What does she do with the French request? Is such an appeal to Article 42, in her view, the beginning of a new approach or is it only typical French? Finally, a word about Ukraine. We will have a referendum on this in a month's time. On behalf of our group, I was able to defend the association agreement earlier, simply because it offers an opportunity to promote some prosperity and stability in Ukraine. With Syria as a frightening example, it is so ready for us that we have every interest in a little more stability and prosperity in Ukraine. I hope enough countrymen see it that way. In any case, this applies to the majority of Europeans. If we look at the challenges facing the European Union, refugees, geopolitical conflicts, financial stability, we see a Union that is divided, lacks decisiveness and sometimes appears to fail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u11	I too have listened with great interest to Mr Knapen's speech. At the end he said something about Ukraine and the Ukraine referendum. He made a comparison with Syria and mentioned Syria as a terrifying example. Do I hear some kind of regret that we didn't have a similar association agreement with Syria? In that case, would Syria have changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u12	I never do "if-history," so I don't know. I do know that we have an association agreement with Jordan. Although that country is not having it easy, with a population increase of about 20% over the last three years, all Syrians have been very well so far. Here too, I will not say that it is because of the association agreement. That would be hubris and it is not. I said it could make a small contribution to the promotion of prosperity and stability. Given all the problems, it doesn't really help that all speculation about a British departure from the European Union is going through it at the moment, as if there were no more pressing issues. However, it is no different. We can only hope that the British electorate will do something that may no longer be fashionable today, namely to make sense speak more than emotion, and that it will choose to stay in the Union. Without Britain, our country will also get a little further into the periphery of the European Union in many ways. On the other hand, our group also makes it clear that the necessary strengthening and integration of the euro is not always dependent on British consent. The British should also accept the disadvantages of a country that is not participating. That brings me to one final point. Will the government with 28 Member States be able to develop an effective Union capable of providing financial stability and international security to its citizens? Or is the cabinet prepared to build on what the International Affairs Advisory Council recently argued, although somewhat anxiously, that differentiated integration should be seen as a way out of the old dilemma between deepening and enlargement? Is it conceivable that a core of Member States will develop in the areas where it is so urgent to further integrate? Would the Netherlands have to nest in there or would it rather take place on the outer ring? As far as we are concerned, it would be a great good thing to work on this right now, just as geopolitics and financial instability in the world are begging for a rock-solid European core.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr Knapen asks two questions there. He talks about two speeds, the known dilemma, and asks which of the two speeds the Netherlands should go into. What's his answer to both questions? He asks the question to the government, but I am also curious to hear his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u14	I repeat once again: it would be a great good thing for us to work on this right now, just as geopolitics and financial instability in the world are begging for a rock-solid European core.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u15	So he wants to work on both? That is a fundamental question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u16	I do not know whether it is a question of principle, but it is a question that leads to different actions in practice. As far as I am concerned, the Netherlands, as one of the founding fathers of the European Union, should play a central role.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u17	I, too, have been listening to Mr Knapen's speech for some time. I thank him for that. I have the next question. I, too, have seen that advice that just came. A core of countries should turn to each other, in particular as regards asylum and refugees. What Mr Knapen says goes on. Could he say a little more about that? He says it's important that we work on that. What does that mean, for example, for the free movement of persons and goods or for European security?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u18	For many years, we have developed the European Union with the motto of a 'ever closer union' in all kinds of areas that have to do with interconnectivity. We are talking about economic, social, regulatory and state-of-the-art links. If you see the big challenges in the world now, then the need to give priority not so much to an ever closer union, but to an ever stronger union, because the geopolitical challenges in the world, the threats from outside, are so visible and so dominant that they pose the risk of compromising our way of life, in all kinds of ways. The European concept comes under pressure when it comes to issues such as standards, trade agreements and defining how to make contractual agreements with one another. So, as far as we are concerned, it is important that we organise the European Union in such a way that we are armed against these external threats. This can also be done in the areas of foreign policy, defence, a common approach to development cooperation and investment, simply because a small European country cannot safeguard those interests on its own in that world. This applies to a number of areas that have more to do with international, political, financial, foreign and defence policy than the ever closer union that deals with the rate of burning down candles sold in the European Union. That is one of the last suggestions that has been deleted in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u19	If I listen to Mr Knapen's description, this corresponds to the countries that lie in Western Europe and have an Atlantic and international orientation. Mr Knapen also outlined the difference with countries in Europe that have turned inwards. I have one more follow-up question. The lack of internal cohesion is a factor in Europe's division, perhaps even a lack of shared values. What is the principle of cohesion that Mr Knapen envisages?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u20	I ask the cabinet whether it considers it possible to get the things that are needed to maintain your position in the world, which I have just formulated, done with 28 Member States or to say: the urgency is so great; if we have to do less, we will do it to start with less. That's what I'm asking the Cabinet. I would have liked to say that I am curious about the government's view on this, but I understand that the concept of vision is loaded in government circles. Knowing this minister, I would like to invite him to share some thoughtful reflection on this with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr Knapen, may I ask you, in view of the time, to conclude your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u22	I need another minute and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u23	You've been over it two and a half times, but fine, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u24	The question remains: do we see the Union only as an economic project or as a vehicle to safeguard our way of life in an ever-growing world around us, as a community of values that needs protection and in which Member States who really want to participate are also prepared to make sacrifices? That is how we see it, I say to Mr Backer. Loss of sovereignty is no longer a loss if we jointly regain the capacity to act. Does the Cabinet agree with this? If that is the case, doesn't it ultimately require a new treaty for those who want to move forward, who feel that need? I know, drivers get goose bumps in the idea of a treaty change alone. A new treaty means that the people are moved and perhaps the people do not want to. My answer to that would be: we live in a democracy. If we are really convinced of something, then we have an expensive duty to do our best to convince with arguments. If things go differently: tant piss. Democracy isn't about scared people. I myself am convinced that a vast majority of Dutch people will indeed be warm to a project that will allow us to put the malaise in Europe behind us. We are in urgent need of this. As far as I am concerned, there is even a new optimism about this urgency. What does the Cabinet think about this? I'm coming to a conclusion now. As I indicated at the beginning, the tried and tested Monnet method seems to be working out. We cannot simply continue. It has to be negotiable and clear what we're working towards. Are we just cycling now because you're falling apart or do we know where we're going? Let us be honest: the way things are going, the project loses inspiration and that is irresponsible. Soul can't be hired from a marketing agency and luckily so. Maybe we should honestly acknowledge that at the same time we have not succeeded in expanding and deepening, that the lot connection and mutual trust between everything and everyone in the European Union are not large enough to give our own destiny to the other, that for a strong Europe with greater integration in a few crucial areas with a smaller group, a leading group, we need to move forward. So we can develop a more credible "narrative" of a continent that is able and willing to promote and defend its interests and values in the world, something that we can all finally be proud of. I look forward to the exchange of views with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you very much, Mr Knapen. I've been very generous. You've understood that by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. Today we are having a debate that hardly fits into the category of 'laden', but has become taboo. Cynicism about the European Union and European cooperation has become bon ton, as if we are dealing with something threatening, as if far away, in Brussels, a conspiracy that brings us little good. The great profits of voluntary, multilateral and binding cooperation are concealed or even denied. Many, the populists first, present Brussels as a power threatening our sovereignty and subjecting us to a suffocating, money-consuming bureaucracy. That negative attitude is becoming commonplace. The VVD Group wishes to express a different attitude on this occasion. The VVD is a strong supporter of European integration. It has brought great benefits to Europe, and they are certainly not just economic in nature. The EU is a community of values, an elaboration of constitutional and democratic values to which the Member States have committed themselves and which are carried out jointly inside and outside. This is happening in a world that is directly surrounding us where these values are being violated. A great deal will be asked of the EU as a community of values to make its voice heard. This will require more European Union in many areas. Take the issue of refugees in this regard alone. Those who think they can solve this better as a separate country have lost touch with reality. I will come back to this subject, but also here with an appeal for a coordinated European approach. I started with the reference to a choir of skeptics: voices that believe that EU skepticism is helping us further. Many sing with their own voice in this choir, but there is no harmony in that. The tone is so diverse, contradictory and directionless that it really only gets stuck in negativity. Less Brussels is easy to say, but from which it must be "less" remains vague. Getting out is a simple sentence, but what the alternative should be is dark. Such a leap into the dark testifies to the British referendum. Even the no is already completely out of control. Their implementation already varies from a total halt to a re-negotiation. And how an outgoing United Kingdom wants to stand in the world is a big black hole. That's what happens when emotion wins with common sense. Soon the Netherlands will also show how it has become a guide country in this negativity and how this guide seems to have lost any sense of direction. I am referring here to the Ukraine referendum, a subject of which virtually no one controls the actual content, but whose intention of the initiators is all too clear: to force a ruling against the European Union. And this at the expense of a country that should be liberated from the old Soviet swamp and open to European values, such as fighting corruption and developing a rule of law and a properly functioning democracy. Delivering this country to Russia's sphere of influence, as the SP formulates its European Utopia, means extradition to a system of predatory capitalism. Greater corruption of European values is hardly conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u27	This is entrapment!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u28	That was the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u29	I understand that, and I'm gonna get into it too! With all due respect, this is total bullshit. We are absolutely not in favour of extradition to Russia, and certainly not to Putin's current Russia. Of course, it is completely nonsense what is being said here. I really want to know where he gets that notion from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u30	Your party's spokesman in the referendum debate, Mr Van Bommel, has openly stated that it was a mistake, let me put it in his words, to draw Ukraine into the European sphere of influence because it provokes Russia. He said that the border must be drawn differently and that Ukraine belongs to the Russian sphere of influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u31	That is where I think the Commissioner is making a great mistake of thinking. Indeed, some of the association agreement has put the fuse in the powder keg. This is, at least with retroactive effect, desirable for Ukraine. I think it would have been much better for Ukraine if it could have acted with two blocks of good. The big problem is that two great powers, one in the east and one in the west, have drawn to the land, which now has torn it in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u32	Could it be that the Ukrainians also have a voice in this and that they themselves can decide how they fulfil their sovereignty, that they themselves decide with whom they want to conclude agreements and that this is not enforced by third parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u33	Finally, Mr Elzinga. The name is "Schaper" and not "Schaper." We also have it in this Chamber, but it's from D66 and Mr. Schaap is from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u34	And we don't have the superior stairs here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u35	Yes, Sheep! Apologies, Mr. Chairman, of course I mean Mr. Schaap. I like to fix it. Of course, the Ukrainians themselves have a voice in this, just like we do when it comes to an association agreement. Two parties have a voice in that. The problem with the association agreement and with Putin's proposals to Ukraine is exclusion. Both we and the Russians have said to Ukraine: you have to choose between one or the other. I think the problem with Ukraine is that the country is divided to the bone on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u36	The country has not been distributed to the bid at all, as Mr Putin himself has done with his warfare in Ukraine. There was not too much of a sense of national identity in Ukraine, but the interventions that Putin has made clearly make this point. According to polls, about 90% of the population are in favour of an association agreement with Europe. This association agreement does not exclude any other treaty. You should consider what the country was like before you opted for closer cooperation with Europe. Look at the palace of Yanukovych. That is in itself an excessive waste of Ukrainian money, but on that estate there is a second, smaller palace that is also very nicely built, namely a personal palace for Mr Putin, with a helicopter landing site next to it. That is how the situation was, and it seems to me that the country does not want this to happen. I think that this should call for a sense of responsibility in our country to free the country from that constraint. And for the rest, they'll figure it out. I said that this approach to the referendum is a corrupting of European values. It is deeply tragic that the anti-Europa sentiment also goes so far in the Netherlands that we are becoming a despot, so I am talking about Putin, who not only leads his own country to the abyss, but also, with the help of a bizarre interpretation of democracy, this referendum, seems to succeed in disrupting democratic Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u37	I understand that Mr Schaap has some difficulty corrupting all kinds of leaders and so on, but how does he look at Mr Schulz? Mr Schulz has an office with 35 employees, 2 drivers, 1 personal butler and 2 limousines. That costs more than a million a year. How does he look at that? In fact, that's just as bad, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u38	I do not know why he needs this, but at least that is a result of the open, democratic decision-making that we have here in Europe. That is something other than the coming to power of despots who are completely draining the country, because that is not what Mr Schulz is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr Schaap cannot have escaped the fact that Mr Schulz has appointed himself. No one has elected Mr Schulz, none of the Commissioners have been elected. Those people just appointed themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u40	Himself? When did he appoint himself? What deed did he sign for it himself, without a decision being made underneath it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u41	The Brussels club, the elite club, put him in the saddle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u42	This kind of terminology is Euroscepticism, which is not a positive idea at all. I'll get back to you on this. This is just a drop-off. Mr President, the cabinet has distanced itself from this referendum, but the VVD Group would like to hear the Minister's views on this matter. So I am talking about the Ukraine Treaty. I would like to hear a reflection on this. Let me come back to the Eurosceptics. It is unclear to the VVD Group where they really want to go. I am talking about a positive interpretation of what they want to stand for. There is no point in trying to resist the idea of a clear picture of what one wants to do. The vague basic tone of the polyphonic choir seems to be that power must return to its own capital, as its own national centre of power. This basic tone fits in with the worship of an ancient idol, namely the nation and thus also fits with the idolatry of nationalism. History teaches us little in that respect. We are not learning from the damage that nationalist pathos has already done to the world. And if this pathos has already proven its disastrous impact somewhere, then it is in Europe. The negativity, which is opposed to the European Union and its institutions, fits in with a more general trend which is also gaining momentum in the Netherlands, but not only here. Take note of what is happening in Poland, Hungary and also in the United Kingdom, and also of the primaries in the USA: an increasing irrational, but also pathetic resistance to the established order, the opposition to what is called power, to the elites, that word was just said again, but also to the public institutions and their representatives. We are against, we want to be against something, anything and anyone, we are discontented, angry, rebellious and something or someone should be able to blame this. So we go to the elites, to politics, to Islam, you choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u43	Does Mr Schaap ever wonder why that is? Is that perhaps because the people in the country no longer feel represented in the parliaments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u44	That would be an extremely tragic matter, but I recognise that this is a threat, that is true. The appreciation of representative democracy is decreasing and everyone wants to get involved in everything as directly as possible. If you want anarchy, you need to keep doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u45	To be honest, I think it's a bit silly to say: if you want to have anarchy, you should keep doing so. It is precisely the EU's current policy with its open borders in which people are no longer being listened to that is a threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u46	Those are the generalities: "people are no longer being listened to." We have a democratic system in Europe. This ensures that people are listened to. Beyond all our electoral procedures, our representatives are doing their best day by day. In short, such a general, negative statement is bon ton but does not help us at all. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group welcomes the fact that this negativity is regrettable, especially if the European Union becomes the target. If there are problems, name them, preferably as concrete as possible and seek solutions, preferably together with others. But don't lose yourself in uncontrolled accusations that also like to be removed far from the facts. I have already stressed the appreciation of the VVD Group for what the European Union has achieved. This union must develop further as a community of values and defend and promote them in a turbulent world. This is hardly possible for individual Member States. Those who overlook the global battlefield of imbalances must come to the conclusion that Europe will only be able to play a role in geopolitical and economic issues with united forces and jointly formulated positions. We must be extremely concerned about a situation prior to World War I. Large bandages were then disbanded, nationalism seized and we worked, as the title of an analytically penetrating book strikingly expresses, sleepwalking into destruction. The battlefield that is now developing around the European Union is extremely threatening. I am referring not only to the Islamic world, but also to Russia. This must not be allowed to move to Europe itself. Unfortunately, more and more forces are active who are enjoying such disruption. It is important to defend Europe as an achievement. I'd be delighted if the Minister would take this up. I would like to make a few comments on the basic tone of the Eurosceptics. I cannot let go of this subject entirely, because the withdrawal of power from Brussels and the so-called restoration of national sovereignty resounds day in and day out. The suggestion of lost sovereignty is a fiction. There is also a tragic point, typical of populism: the skeptics do not yet give an idea of what the national sovereignty to be regained would mean. Speaking of sleepwalking! At a time when research, technology, culture and the economy are becoming far removed from national borders, politics should return to its place. That's totally absurd. The European Union is a voluntary and binding form of cooperation between sovereign states. What is happening here is new in history. The great gain of this is the ratification of historically acquired values, such as our freedoms, our innovative strength, but also the safeguarding of the sovereignty of each Member State. The Member States are a union of equals, they are not covered by the decision of a superpower, as the situation is developing in the sphere of influence claimed by Russia. This profit therefore comes with the economic or trade advantage, a blessing for an open economy like the Dutch. There is hardly a country that has so much to gain from the level playing field that Europe offers, and hence from the harmonisation of legislation. This process must be pursued vigorously. I would like to add a few points of law, or perhaps I should say international law. The European Union is not a superstate and it is not even the beginning of it. And to be clear about this, the European Union must not become a state either. I am not just saying this because such a development would create a lot of resistance and cynicism, with the current noise still being child's play. There is also a state-of-the-art argument. The European Union as a supranational state would introduce a dual system of sovereignty: a national one and a supranational one. This means competition, confusion, conflicting situations and paralysis. A kind of Amsterdam, but in large. Double sovereignty leads to far-reaching uncertainties. The principle of sovereignty requires clarity and indivisibleity in the allocation of powers. In Europe, sovereignty lies with the individual Member States, and it must remain so. It is precisely this that makes the European Union so unique: there is now no transfer of sovereignty, only binding cooperation. That is why the European Union is in no way comparable to other conglomerates, such as the former Soviet Union or colonial empires. I am just saying this because today's critics sometimes suggest a comparison with the Soviet Union, for example with the terminology EUSSR. The VVD Group considers such a comparison absurd. In the Soviet Union, the sovereignty of the annexed republics had completely disappeared. This also applies to the legal personality of the inhabitants, since the citizen principle had been destroyed. Even in the later overwhelmed satellites there was no question of sovereignty at all. Absolutely no right to retire. In the EU, no sovereignty has been conferred by Member States. The possibility of retirement proves this. Nor has the Dutch State given up any sovereignty. It is only voluntarily limited, as is the case when international conventions are entered into. Compare this with the fate of Czechoslovakia or Hungary at the time of the Soviet Union. Although populist cynics are vague about the alternative to the EU, it is clear that the so-called regained sovereign national state does not fully reflect their understanding of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u47	I am listening to the interesting speech and the reflections on sovereignty. In Europe, we usually talk about sharing sovereignty and not about transferring it, although that is the case again in speech usage. However, that share of sovereignty also means the transfer of sovereignty to common institutions. I have here in my hand the Five Presidents' report, which Mr Knapen also mentioned. It is about the road to a fiscal union and a political union, all in a way where sovereignty is shared more closely with common institutions. These common institutions will indeed restrict the freedom of action of States. Is that your image, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u48	Right, that's my picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u49	The key to this is that countries can come out of this and say no to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u50	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u51	In the end, this will remove the strength of Europe, which you are also very much in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u52	Europe is a voluntary arrangement. We are now seeing this, although of course I regret that it is happening that the United Kingdom is making use of the opportunity to say 'goodbye' again. And that proves that no sovereignty has been granted, because this freedom could possibly have been restricted or eliminated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u53	For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that, for the VVD Group, the sovereignty of the national state must be preserved at all times. That's not idolatry, it's a political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u54	Wait a minute, I'm not talking about popular sovereignty or anything like that. I shall now come to the question of nationalism. However, this is simply to keep the principle of sovereignty indivisible. In doing so, it is appropriate to limit it on a voluntary basis. And you always do that with contracts. This brings me to a dangerous undertone in nationalism. Today there is a desire for a nation state, with some form of popular sovereignty. I'm having a bit of a problem with that. Where the term "the people" appears, there is reason for great vigilance. People's sovereignty refers to people like Rousseau and his many followers and assumes a very questionable form of equality and consensus among people. Over the last centuries, the concept of "people" and the associated sovereignty have been given creepy ethnic or even racial content. This translation made it clear in particular that large numbers of inhabitants are not among the so-called fellow citizens. Many of those who are now expressing the concept of national sovereignty once again fill in the concept of nation or people ethnically. This fits well with today's thriving Islamophobia, but it also monitors what Europe-wide threatens to suffer from other minorities, such as our Jewish citizens. We must be very careful not to repeat nasty history in the popular idea. In our modern state concept, the principle of equality prevails before the law, i.e. equality as a citizen, regardless of ethnic, cultural or religious inequalities. This idea must be upheld by our national state and also by the European Union. The Dutch State is two centuries old and has been imposed with some hardness, quite a difference from the way in which the European Union was created. The Dutch State has put an end to the sad aspect of pre-national history, namely one of civil war, persecution, discrimination and whatnot. The Netherlands lived by that. The national State introduced civil equality before the law and thus imposed pacification. In the light of this state-building, the open project of European political cooperation is a model of civilisation. After all, everything in consultation, almost all decisions in unanimity or with major majorities. Innumerable amount of space for minorities. The dismantling of this open-ended project and the so-called restoration of national sovereignty can lead to a huge regression. How do you work together? With an unclear number of bilateral treaties? With association agreements? But why, in the consultative referendum, torpedo such an association agreement? It is completely unclear what exactly makes up the supranational alternative of the Eurosceptics. The British referendum shows how retirement can be the beginning of further dissolution. So reckless can play with popular sovereignty unfold. Anyone who wants to count the blessings of re-emerging folk nationalism has leading examples such as Russia or Venezuela. There is reason enough to hold a debate on Europe, but open, without taking the doom of taboo and without taking the prejudices of today's populism as the norm. The EU is clearly going through a period of crisis. This has to do with external circumstances, such as the refugee crisis, but also with the internal structure, such as the way in which decisions are taken. The EU is the famous polder model in large measure: a lot of long-term consultation, always compromise. As long as parties can find each other, this works fine, but when it becomes difficult, it threatens to be too little and too late. I will come to the refugee tragedy in a moment, but first I would like to draw attention to some other points on which I would like to hear the Minister. There is an enormous amount to be gained, even if it was only cost savings that could be achieved if expensive dossiers could be dealt with at European level. I would like to give examples of the authorisation policy for pesticides and veterinary and human medicines. Admission procedures consume time and money, in extremes if this is to be regulated separately for countries. In addition, smaller countries have little to contribute individually because of the costs and importance of producers. The same applies to biotechnology, although the European Union is largely powerless here because of the lack of political will on the part of individual Member States. Will the Minister address this subject and surprise us with his ambitions? In this context, I would like to highlight one more issue which is an opportunity for far-reaching harmonization: the organisation of education. I am referring here to the coordination of curricula at the various levels of training in the European Union and the question of the recognition of each other's diplomas and other certificates. Education and research internationalise extremely quickly; students swarm across the European field and graduates report themselves Europe-wide for jobs. That is how important it is to achieve greater harmonisation. This also applies to the financing and coordination of education, research and cooperation with industry. Here, too, harmonisation would be of great benefit. Does the Minister also want to discuss this issue? I would like to draw attention to one more specific point. The strength of any social and political organization is the institutionalization of responsibility, which ensures continuity. This strength can become a weakness if an institute is set up for practice out. The European Union is at risk of losing itself at times in an over-institutional drive. As an example, I would like to mention the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office. Is it not better to encourage Member States to comply with their obligations and thus to test the effectiveness of the underlying instruments before setting up a new institute? I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Finally, the refugee tragedy. This drama shows a weak side of the European decision-making process: that the polder model becomes too complex due to the excessive contradictions and the lack of binding procedures. Therefore, the binding nature of agreements does not exist, and in this case the Schengen Agreement is likely to be the victim. It is quite inconceivable that the influx of refugees will be reduced if each Member State tries to close its own borders. This is no more than a powerless emergency jump and whoever promotes this to folk deception. The political and economic damage of this emergency leap will be enormous. There has been a system error in the conclusion of the Schengen Agreement: internal border control has been abolished without external control. The current crisis shows that this error needs to be corrected. The current Frontex cannot handle the security of Europe's blue external borders in particular. Mr Knapen mentioned this as well. There is too little capacity for the deployment of warships in NATO. Moreover, this is not an ideal solution, because the ships are expensive and scarce. There is no question of a military task, but of a coastguard task. If Europe's blue external borders are to be properly protected, a fully-fledged European coastguard should be established at a rapid pace. The construction of some 40 ships is relatively cheap and operating costs are low. Ships should be flying the European flag so that asylum applications can be prevented on board. Crews must be supplied by the European Member States. The Berlin Agreement offers the possibility to use an existing NATO maritime headquarters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u55	I hear Mr Schaap saying that asylum applications must be prevented on board. If you want to comply properly with the Schengen Borders Code, should migrants who are intercepted always have the opportunity to apply for asylum?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u56	Yes, that should be organised in such a way that they can submit that application at the place where they come from. This is also in line with what Mr Knapen said. The selection of those who do fall under the category of refugees and those who do not, will have to take place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u57	I do not have much to do with what Mr Knapen has said; I am concerned about the position of the VDD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u58	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u59	According to EU rules, the application for asylum should be examined precisely on the basis of the Schengen Borders Code in the EU territory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u60	Then we need to look again at how this can be better organised, but there is now a totally uncoordinated influx which makes it very difficult to distinguish between those who do fall within the category of refugee and those who do not. The latter must therefore be returned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u61	I note that Mr Schaap, and with him the VVD Group, wants to change and restrict the right to asylum as it is now anchored.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u62	How it is now anchored is a subject that needs to be looked at again, but the right to asylum remains in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u63	But somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u64	I have one final question. Do I hear Mr Schaap say that we should upgrade Frontex to a European Rapid Refugee Emergency, in line with the Juncker Committee's ruling and subsequent proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u65	We can, of course, talk about whether it should be Frontex or whether it should be given a different denominator. But if you abolish internal borders, you must take the system of external borders seriously. It is therefore necessary to set up border surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u66	We agree on that. Mr Schaap said that Europe is complicated, but Dutch politics is also complicated. I invite Mr Schaap to take his partymates across the Binnenhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u67	We play that game all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u68	I do not understand something for a moment and therefore I would like to ask a clarifying question. Suppose we get one of those upgraded Frontex, to put it that way. Then what's the point? Are these ships going to push back boats with refugees or will they pick up the refugees and still land them in the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u69	I'm not a seafarer, but pushing back seems a pretty creepy thing to me. Returning is possible and that discourages those who are now making big money from doing so. That is no longer possible, and it is therefore extremely preventive. That's the real point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u70	Yeah, but by now, Frontex is already on the radar to see where certain boats are headed? The refugees are taken on board and brought ashore. How does Mr Schaap see this in practice? Those people come aboard a ship like that and then what? We cannot send them back to Turkey now. How are we supposed to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u71	As I said, we must first pick up the refugees from the sea and bring them back. The real intention is that this discourages and that the sailing with those life-threatening boats stops. I repeat, we do recognise the right to asylum. The refugees must be sheltered in protected areas. The European Union will have to make a very generous contribution to this. What has been decided this morning points to that, and I welcome that. The introduction and implementation of such a solution seems to me to be a challenge for the Dutch Presidency. I would also like a response from the Minister. Perhaps we can give our hands and feet to this in the debate today. I await with interest the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u72	Mr. Chairman. There is a very good play on tour in our country. It's called Anton Chekhov's Cherry Garden. The core of the story is that those with power and possession lack the omens of the new age. It plays around the turn of the century in Tsarist Russia. How can we in Europe, when we look at the wealth of the world, in the eyes of so many a continent of power and possession, understand the signs of time in time? Can we move the beacons in time? We've all been able to observe it. Russia never became a democracy, but it did become a formidable nuclear force. We also feel the consequences of this at this time. Ukraine is facing the threat of Putinism. The situation in Crimea illustrates this. Russia reminds our country of our own vulnerability. How can this be better illustrated than by the tragic events of the MH17? Let me make it quite clear, before any other suggestion is made on this basis, that Ukraine is not ready for EU membership. The association agreement with the EU is not an introduction to this either. They are instruments of cooperation such as the EU that work in cooperation with many countries in the world, such as Chile, South Africa and Israel. I see now the winner of the Aletta Jacob Prize, Petra Stienen, coming in. Congratulations! The EU is trying to promote trade with Ukraine within the EU and is trying to support the rule of law there. How hard is that? How long is the road to go with that? My group has no illusions about this. It is complicated, but it can give hope and direction to a country in difficulty; a European country that wants to opt for more freedoms, prosperity and democracy. I see it as a lifeboat, which does not provide prosperity, but offers citizens an opportunity. That's the minimum we could do. The events of the past year have put pressure on our common values, both from within and from outside. My colleague, Mr Schaap, has just spoken about this. My group does not see that as incidents. There are deeper causes. I'll give you three. The first is migration: local and regional conflicts generate large flows of refugees from situations that are military and politically difficult to control. I call Syria, Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan. We also know the causes: violence, increased mobility, connectivity, we know where to go, and fragility of failing states. The migrants in the EU are confronting us with the lack of organisation of the EU's common external borders. Mr Schaap was right to point out that if internal borders are to be removed, you must make sure that the external borders are put in order. The images of tear gas and water cannons on children at the border of Macedonia, the drowned on beaches, the marches on railway lines with children on the shoulder, in the rain and cold, it is poignant and humanitarianly unacceptable and it is not necessary. It is not necessary, because the EU is simply not prepared for a slightly bigger problem that it could have dealt with. In 1994, many more refugees entered Europe and many years earlier. It would not have been necessary; it is a matter of political priorities. The second cause lies in the financial and economic turmoil. Major financial and economic interdependences have emerged. Global capital flows do not concern themselves with national borders. There is a de facto debt-mutuality in the euro area. With the ESM fund, we have actually recognised this and in the Five Presidents' Report we want to go a step further in this respect. That is the need for coordinated economic, fiscal and monetary policies. But there is a lack of "perseverance" to use a term from domestic government. The third cause concerns the Union's own identity question. There is gloom, and my colleague Knapen started with it about the success of the European project. There are populist and other currents that respond to that discontent. The key issue I would like to discuss in this contribution is how to understand these events as fundamental signs of time and what responses are necessary and feasible. In Europe, it is a recurring phenomenon that national political leaders, especially at home and often even when they are gathered in the European Council, do not dare or can rise above the level of daily urgency, polls and attacks from the right flanks of the political spectrum. As a result, the EU as such is unable to act decisively and convincingly in the three areas I have just mentioned. There is no lack of ambition in the Juncker Committee. Read his State of the Union and his proposal to set up a joint investment fund. I say to Mrs Faber that the Juncker Committee, including Mr Schulz, was indeed elected by the European Parliament. Members are not appointed, as in some parties. No, the committee was elected by the European Parliament and by the citizens of Europe. What my colleague, Mr De Graaf, feared four years ago, happened: the European political forum seems to be a trade fair of national interests which is too often lost in small subjects. Whether they are burning candles or school fruit, they are subjects that give rise to a certain hilarity and also to the ridicule of the Union. My group believes it is of the utmost importance that we force citizens, parliaments and governments to break through at all levels. That is why this debate is important. Of course, it has become much more complicated with 28 Member States than with 6, 12 or 16 Member States. That goes without saying. It has an impact on the pace and depth of integration, but this does not alter the desire to achieve the very best for our citizens together. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats knows that this European ambition is consistent. We're celebrating a birthday too. We are 50 years old this year. We are 11 years younger than the EU and 20 years younger than Mr Jschrijver's party, but nevertheless: mature. European cooperation is a very fundamental political choice for our group and all the groups in this House. We believe that European cooperation is the best guarantee of our citizens' opportunities for development, prosperity and fundamental values. Fundamental values are not a luxury for good times, but a necessity in bad times, and that is what we are dealing with now. What we think is nice, but the Member States also expressed their opinion in the Lisbon Treaty in 2012. The Treaty recalls the inspiration for the creation and development of the EU. The basis of cooperation is the common cultural, religious and humanist tradition of Europe, which underpins the development of the universal values of inviolable and inalienable human rights and of values such as freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law. It was a historic interest to end the division of Europe and to lay the foundations for a future Europe. The urgency of this has not been reduced by time; it has increased. I think I am the third speaker to have noticed gloom. If I have to believe all the prophecies of doom, we face a permanent fault in history, which threatens the continuity of the European project. One says along geographical coordinates north-south, the other says along east-west, others say along the angry citizen and the cosmopolitan vanguard. Many see it as a permanent crisis in our values. I see above all a manifestation of a form of retro-nationalism and of the exploitation of the fear of the difference. The fear of the difference, the difference in Europe and between people, as if we know uniformity in the Netherlands. Not so long ago, the tune "15 million people, who let you in their value" was generally seen as representative of the view that in our society all kinds of different tones and colors can exist side by side. With 17 million people, that hasn't changed. I'm not just saying that, that's what the SCP says. There's been a lot of research on that. The EU is an extra complicated exercise in dealing with difference, peacefully and with the aim of increasing prosperity and happiness. There seems to be some sort of fear about a European identity, when we should not talk about replacing national or regional identity, but about developing an additional identity, or at least an identification with an ideal in the service of lasting peace, freedom and prosperity. I am not going to go any further on this subject, much has been written and spoken about over the years. I refer to all kinds of writers, like Amin Maalouf. Mr Schaap has just spoken about sovereignty, and that is a complement to this idea. I don't have to add much more to that. We do not believe that gloomyness and prediction of fault lines and their permanence, because we trust that we can find solutions to them. For example, look at Switzerland, where another xenophobia referendum was held. Everyone thought it would be another profit for the SVP, a family of the PVV-likes. Pillars in January showed that, too. But then there is a citizens' initiative led by Favia Kleiner of people who say 'that's not what we want'. So this operation, Libero, was indeed successful. You don't have to accept sentiment, citizenship can do something. That, in my opinion, is the message. I would like to comment on the three problems I have outlined. All three are not unique and not insoluble, but difficult to deal with. It makes sense to ask: who in the present time has shown to appreciate the signs of time? I am thinking in particular of Chancellor Merkel, although she is of a different political colour. Not only does she have a vision of the future that is hopeful. It is also a sign of the time that a politician who was always put away as a realpolitiker is now suddenly seen by many as an idealist. In my opinion, it is very consistent: the great challenges of today cannot be resolved nationally. Mr Knapen spoke of inspiration, there is also something of commitment, but where is the Dutch Government? "Netherlands guide country" is far behind us, I know, but if we are not allowed to use the word "vision," what is the commitment and spirit of the Dutch government? When a plan comes up for the Dutch Government, it is immediately called the Samsom plan to highlight that it is none other than Mr Samsom's and certainly not the Dutch Government's. So what is the Dutch Government's plan? With this debate, we have the great advantage that the Minister was in Brussels yesterday, I assume, and that we can therefore hear something about the Dutch commitment. In the documents from the beginning of the Dutch Presidency, the Dutch Government has said that it wants to be a 'honest broker'. One does not stand in the way of the other, in my opinion, but is that still the limited ambition, or could it perhaps be a little more instrumental and with more inspiration? I like to hear that. I would also like to hear more about the Prime Minister's attitude yesterday at the European Council. My group has the impression that the Dutch Government is ignoring a very urgent need on the part of the citizens of our country to get an explanation, to get a direction and a statement of the choices made. I do not mean in the form of an apology that another far-reaching European project has been added, such as the Banking Union, but an explanation of why we are participating. Let me try to give some explanation to three of the subjects I discussed. The issue of migration exposes a failure of the EU, which has been known for some time, but it is the Member States that are holding it back. It is not the EU as such, but it is the Member States that have failed to take action, especially at the external borders. Nor have they given the Commission the opportunity to do so. I would like to know from the Minister what the attitude of the Dutch Government has been in the run-up to the moment when we are now. What have we been encouraging, stopping or wishing for in the Commission's earlier commitment to genuinely giving hands and feet at the external borders? It is not the absolute numbers of migrants who cause the problems in the EU, but the allocation. Some countries have disproportionately absorbed many migrants and are at the limit of their absorption capacity. I am thinking of Hungary, Sweden and Austria. Other countries, on the other hand, received very few, such as France and the United Kingdom. The practical consequence of this problem is that, in any case, an urgent response needs to be found to the surveillance of external borders, the distribution of migrants, the system of applications for residence and the return policy. Without that, so by our own failure, we become hostage to others. One of the large countries with its own complex agenda is our NATO ally Turkey. My group supports the efforts of the Minister and Secretary of State Dijkhoff to force breakthroughs and release funds for Frontex. I cannot see what was or was not agreed in the talks with Turkey, I would like to hear it from them and cannot anticipate it. However, we have reached a very precarious point: the renationalisation of borders and the temporary freezing of Schengen. Can the Minister outline how he's going to prevent these dominoes from falling further down? How will Frontex be upgraded to a truly effective body? Mr Schaap and I had just had a little debate on this. If there is any evidence that the EU as a structure is still far from complete, then this is where it appears. This can only work in an EU-wide approach. Of course, removing the causes of conflicts is the very best approach, but we have seen how complicated that is and how little the international community is equipped to intervene. There is no infrastructure in these countries and the EU is already badly equipped. Many in the world see the EU as more than a partnership of 500 million consumers, namely as a political factor that can play an important role in the world. But we don't. I have looked at it again in the Treaty of Lisbon, and it simply says that ambition to pursue a common security policy. Mr Knapen referred to Rule 42 on which the French have invoked. It is possible, but there is always no political will. Maybe we can make a quantum leap forward now that things are getting so urgent. So far, the world hasn't seen much of that we have a common ship patrol. I would like to hear from the Minister what the scaling-up possibilities are in the short and medium term and whether his colleague from the Defence Department sees the possibility of doing so. I now come to the second point, the financial and economic aspects. The Five Presidents' Report could be worth a separate debate, but it is clear that the structure behind European monetary and financial-economic integration is shaky. Expenditure on Frontex shows how bizarre the structure of the European budget is, because it is not foreseen in the regular budget. Governance within the EU has always led to, for example, the extension of the ECB's mandate, or to dissatisfaction and emergency measures. They turn out to be effective in the end, such as the ESM fund. The Five President's Report gives a good road map for improvements. On a number of parts it could and should go much further. I am saving this subject for a debate with Minister Dijsselbloem, which seems wise to me. Let's not play puppets today. The report does not propose to reduce or unravel integration, but rather to deepen it. I find it remarkable, however, that the final point in the report is about democratic strengthening. There really should be something more done about that if it is to be seen as legitimate. Working for Europe is mainly practical manual work, harmonisation of legislation. At the Article 13 conference in Brussels, thanks to Mr Elzinga's own rules or procedure, the Vice-President of the OECD said something very practical during the afternoon programme. There was a report showing that economic growth of several percentage points in the euro area would be possible through further harmonisation of the internal market. Of course, that's not a brainbreaker at all. There are still incredibly many obstacles due to regulations that are incompatible, through qualifications that are not interchangeable or due to border problems. Try getting a Drent to work in Germany or the other way around. So there is not too much Europe, but too little. At the same time, digital markets are emerging across borders at a furious pace without much regulation. I would like to turn Mr Knapen's point on the 'ever stronger union' into a 'ever stronger and closer union'. Anyway, there are different views about that. In the context of the general financial considerations, fellow members of the SP have called for attention to be paid to poverty in the Netherlands. Let us look at the EU. The statistics are the subject of a wide range of debates. What is poverty or not? However, according to statistics, around 24% of the EU's population is at risk of poverty. In our country this risk is lowest after the Czech Republic. How valid is it for Europe to pay attention to this? On this international women's day, attention should also be paid to the backwardness of women's emancipation. The best chance of reducing the risk of poverty and falling behind in emancipation is a genuine internal market that allows sustainable economic growth in all countries, hand in hand with further improvement of training opportunities across national borders and by improving institutions to eliminate abuse of power.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr Backer spoke warmly about the internal market and the fight against poverty. I would like to ask him how he looks at the fact that last year Hungarian truck drivers drove Dutch trucks for less than €2 per hour. Now that that problem seems to have been solved through the Dutch court, we are shocked by Romanian welders who work for €0.90 per hour in Dutch shipyards. This will not solve poverty in Groningen, not even in Romania. How does he see this ever-easier single market in a Europe of many different speeds? That leads to big frictions like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u74	You have already indicated it yourself: it leads to great frictions that need to be solved time and time again. That's complicated and leads to false constructions. We know them, too. We have dealt with a number of legislative proposals in this House against bogus constructions, and we have also supported them. It is not difficult at all, and you are right to do so, to point out where things are not going well. We have to ask: what is the solution? Is the solution then to protect the Dutch market for Romanian, Polish and other workers, or are we ensuring harmonisation within Europe with acceptable differences, but where these kinds of constructions are prevented? It is now attractive to bring in almost government-funded workers in such a construction. That will not be resolved in one day, but I do not believe in the reverse approach, which limits national borders, which means that we protect the Dutch employee from an unfair difference in pay compared to others. Ultimately, the European market is wider than this issue, as you can see. The European market not only means that we can work in each other's economies, but also that Dutch companies invest in Romania and in countries where they did not invest before. Economic growth in the former Comecon countries following their accession to the European Union is spectacular, although there are still considerable differences in prosperity. That is why I began by saying that there are great differences, but that Europe as a whole is still a much richer area than the rest of the world. We are in the process of harmonising the differences in prosperity. I believe that this can be achieved more through market forces than Mr Koffeman, but we are in favour of the same thing. There are abuses to be solved, and we must solve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u75	This ambition, this dream of harmonization, seems to run counter to its limits. You agree that we as Europeans are all brothers. But if you live just outside the EU and you arrive with a rubber boat, you don't appear to be part of that fraternity. Such a harmonised market is agreed with relative arbitrariness, and that has something naive. You can say that we are a European army and then we no longer have a war in Europe. Make a world army right away, I'd think, and you'd be out of a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u76	I am surprised to hear such an argument from a representative of the Party for Animals. That party has launched an idealistic idea in Dutch politics and it is fighting for it. Some idealism, of course, is not wrong. If we have made it better for animals in the Netherlands, then that has not yet happened in Europe. I would remind you of the debate on ritual slaughter that we have had. Then it turned out what a colossal quantity is being exported in Europe. Surely it is not naive or idealistic to strive in Europe for an equal level of animal treatment? Then the people who come from outside. I have already spoken about this and I will say something about it later. To be honest, I do not follow that line of reasoning. We have signed a treaty with each other. We've been there. Mr Schaap has also spoken about this. We sometimes act skittish about it as if we were not there, as if Dutch representatives had arranged it behind closed doors, but that was all passed in Parliament. The fact that we agree that certain rules apply to the 28 Member States, and not to the countries outside them, does not mean that we should go straight to a world government? I think that's a little ridiculing about the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u77	Finally. I cannot go into all the points raised by Mr Backer, but anyone who stands up for ideals and realizes those ideals in the Netherlands has to do with a common market that works according to the law of the communicating vessels. We are dealing with regulations that move to the lowest level. We have abolished the batteries, even at European level. Then, with subsidies just across the border, in Ukraine, battery batteries are placed, which influxes the European market with battery eggs. Then you cannot say that this kind of cooperation strengthens the ideals; even more so, they undermine the ideals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u78	That was a statement. I assume that the country where those batteries are located has been chosen at random.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u80	I do. I have reached the last of my three points, namely migration, finance and now identity. I have already paid attention to the national identity question. We are talking about losing sovereignty, but I hear very little about the important results achieved by the EU's joint negotiating power, the EU's cooperation. The great powers of modern economy and capital, such as Google, Amazon, Blackrock, PIMCO and so on, have been laughing at each other for a long time because they know that national governments in the EU are being played against each other. It is not for nothing that they are sometimes compared with Standard Oil of the past, from before the antitrust interventions. Then we are surprised that in that international competition the Netherlands offers national tax services in the form of tax rulings, that the City pays high bonuses and that the places with the lowest costs in the EU are sought to settle. But can I just remind you that Mrs Margrethe Vestager was in the European Commission in the tradition of Neelie Kroes who dealt with Microsoft, Starbucks and Amazon? It was the European Commission that addressed international companies in Belgium on state aid. This may also apply to Dutch companies. That case is under the judge. These interventions are only effective because it is undoubtedly a competence of the EU Commission to intervene in competition to ensure a level playing field. Has a national government in the EU had that strength or the political will to defy international groups? No, this is a rhetorical question, by the way. We will have to continue to organise ourselves in Europe on a scale that allows us to be relevant in a financial and economic multipolar world order. Measures relating to energy, climate, transport, taxation for large enterprises and defence can only be effectively implemented at the supranational level. The pace at which that happens is still under discussion. Then I haven't even specifically talked about climate and energy. If even the Dutch Bank is talking about the need for a CO price, we are obviously closer there than we thought. It will have to be implemented at European level or it will not work. Let the European Union not become a political orphan of our time. The Group of the Party of European Socialists in D66 is happy to place in good company, as a third speaker, a positive approach with ambition to move forward with and in Europe. I use this forum to encourage the Minister to do so. He sometimes sits in meetings where this is different. We will have to open up our Cherry Garden further and develop new gardens with others for mutual benefit. My group would like to invite the Foreign Minister and the Dutch Prime Minister to, in the spirit of the great European, Edmond Wellenstein, who escaped us last week, equally convincingly after the "je suis Charlie" also "je Suis l'Europe! "to say so. I started my contribution with the reference to a good play, despite all the cultural savings there are still. I'm gonna finish with the bad piece of the Brexit amateur scene. David Cameron does not even have the lead role, but Nicola Sturgeon of the Scottish National Party, who wants to stay in the EU. I remember an oral consultation a few years ago when Mr Knapen was still Secretary of State and Mr Rosenthal Minister. I asked at that time whether it was possible and conceivable for Scotland to enter the EU before the United Kingdom. I was kind of laughed at back then. It was considered that this was not a realistic prospect. Actually, it's not as unrealistic as Brexit's going on at the time. I have a question about the 19th of February. Is it conditional? At least that's how I read that appointment. A British yes is the deal and a British no is the deal off the table. Is this interpretation correct? What exactly is the status of that statement? It's not a treaty text. Is it a declaration of the treaty? I'd like to hear the Minister about this. I'm sure the legal department looked into that. We understand that conditionality came in at the insistence of Belgium and France. What position has our Prime Minister or Minister taken in this discussion? Did he support the Belgian attitude or were we so pro-British that we did not dare to do so? If not, why not? In conclusion, what can we expect from the cabinet as a commitment to the referendum on 6 April on the association agreement between Ukraine and the EU? I expect the government, as well as the coalition parties, to make a clear statement on this today. The D66 Group already voted in favour of the treaty and D66 will call for a yes. The Minister has said something about this, but I would like to hear what he has to say about it in this Chamber today. Finally, there is something positive about the Marathon meeting on 18 and 19 February on the Brexit, but I understand that there will be an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u81	I just heard a call for the political parties to vote yes on April 6th. Of course you can. That's everyone's own responsibility. Can Mr Backer, as the representative of the referendum party par excellence, indicate how he looks at taking the outcome of the referendum seriously? Imagine 30% or more of the population coming to vote. Imagine, the population doesn't say yes, but no. Does Mr Backer think that the outcome of the referendum should be taken seriously and taken over?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u82	There's a difference between taking seriously and taking over. There have been complaints that this house is becoming so political. I'm gonna be in the role I'm supposed to be playing today. These are typical questions that my political friends across the street can discuss. I don't know if they're gonna do that before they vote. Of course, it will have to be taken seriously. That is my view. How exactly is that going to translate politically, I don't know. I wanted to speak more in general terms today. I have tried to make a contribution to this. Mr Koffeman had almost prevented me from ending up in a positive way. I don't think that's gonna work. At the Brussels meeting on 18 and 19 February, Prime Minister Cameron did not succeed in dragging large, or even smaller, countries in Europe into his negotiations for exit. So perhaps, despite all the thought and imagery, the common sense of "nous sommes l'Europe" is still more dominant than is sometimes thought. I would have liked to end with that thought, but I can see that this is not going to happen completely without damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u83	Whether it is going to happen is also up to Mr Backer. He was talking about the referendum. He said that the political choice is more across the street and would not take place in this Chamber. His party leader, Mr Pechtold, implicitly states that the electorate is too ignorant and too stupid to make the right decision. Does he support this thesis?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u84	I don't know what Mrs Faber's quoting from. If it is a quote, it seems very out of context, because that is not how I know Mr Pechtold. But, and that may have been the context, the question about the association agreement is a difficult one. If the question has been, I don't know, I don't know the interview, or if he thinks the citizen has read the association agreement, he could have just said: I don't think so. But in itself, I have great confidence in the judgment and judgment of citizens in our country. That is why I say: fine, let the referendum come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u85	I will help our colleague by clarifying it a little more. Mr Pechtold said that Europe is too complex to be pushed into a referendum. I indicated that he implicitly states that the voter is in fact too ignorant and too stupid to make the right decision. Again, my question: does Mr Backer underline this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u86	Mrs Faber is making things complicated right now. It was in the interview about Europe. I understand, because I don't know the interview. I don't know if Mrs Faber is looking at Buitenhof. That is, of course, from public service broadcasting. The debate was held with Mr Baudet. In his view, it is not about the association agreement at all, but about Europe and the fact that Europe is a construction that they do not support and that it is better to break up sooner than later. Mr Schaap also spoke about this. If you look at the referendum that way, it will be a complicated situation. That referendum actually raises a very precise question: should it or should it not be ratified? That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u87	Finally, Mrs Faber, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u88	I think Mr Backer himself is making things complicated, because I think the question was not so difficult in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u89	Then it's all my fault and I'm not going to stay free of damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u90	Mr. Chairman. Europe is more than the name of a continent and more than the Greek myth of Zeus and his beloved princess Europe. Europe is an important cradle of Western civilization. Europe has many shared values and standards that are typically European and that have also spread to the former Eastern bloc countries after the end of the Cold War. Europe is big. It is much larger than the Europe of the 28 Member States of the European Union. The Europe we are talking about today has several important partnerships: first and foremost the European Union, but also the Council of Europe with 47 Member States and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe with 56 Member States. All these are important institutional forms of cooperation, but more importantly, they are community values. Mr Schaap also spoke on this point. What a cuckoo one singing is that in this coalition, at least in this Chamber. Article 3 of the Lisbon Treaty reflects the EU's key values: democratic rule of law, peace and security, respect for human rights, solidarity, mutual respect between peoples, free and fair trade, eradication of poverty and sustainable development of the earth. Article 21 translates this in an inspiring way into the objectives for international politics. As a civilian superpower with a wide range of highly non-military resources, the Union is potentially capable of contributing to a more peaceful and safer world. A broad and integrated security and development policy for European countries is urgently needed, including in dealing with the refugee crisis. This calls for more than less European cooperation. No European country will be able to effectively combat the major threats to international security on its own. A better and more effective foreign policy for the European Union is therefore urgently needed. With this need for intensive cooperation, international policies differ from other policy areas, such as housing or health care. Does the government share that general premise with us? If so, how is it committed to promoting this? The refugee crisis is one of the greatest challenges facing European cooperation in recent years. Do we succeed in upholding the European values of rule of law, of solidarity and of shared security, which I have just mentioned, and in helping to define our policies? Do we, as EU countries, go shoulder to shoulder or each for himself? In this Chamber, we have had regular contacts with the relevant trade ministers on the European Agenda on Migration, on a common approach to the refugee crisis and on humane refugee reception in close cooperation with the countries of the region. My group does not underestimate the scale of the problems facing us in Europe. For this reason, it is important, in the spirit of the UN Refugee Treaty, to make a precise distinction between political refugees who have often had to flee for fear of their lives after a long period of hesitation, for example from West Africa and North Africa, who, for socio-economic reasons in particular, try to cross over to Europe. At the shelter now we have to bet on the first group. Our question to the government is whether this policy in the European context is now being better implemented. Certain countries of arrival are referred to as "safe countries." This should actually include the whole of the Balkans. Can the government update progress at European level in determining which countries may belong to the'safe countries'? There is, of course, a round of negotiations in Brussels now, particularly with Turkey. I would like to ask what is the fate of the European Commission's so-called relocation plans in the current state of affairs. There is much to be said for this, but there seems to be not enough enthusiasm and support in many EU Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u91	Can Mr Schrijver indicate whether he also considers Turkey to be a safe third country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mostly. I believe that through the intensive cooperation with Turkey, which my group fully supports, we can contribute to the fact that large parts of Turkey can be described as a safe area. For certain groups that may be a bit more nuanced. I am thinking of the Kurds who fled Syria. That's where customization has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr Schrijver is aware, I assume, that Turkey has not ratified the Refugee Convention for non-Europeans. There is a separate arrangement for Syrians, but Iraqis, Iranians and others cannot be protected under the Refugee Convention. What does Mr Schrijver think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u94	That is why it is so important that we try to make major agreements with Turkey and that we try to bring Turkey into this by means of a mutually beneficial agreement. Moreover, I do not think that the number of Iraqis and Iranians trying to nest in Turkey is particularly high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u95	Mrs. Strik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u96	We are not going to find out whether Turkey is a safe third country for everyone. Here's what I'd like to know. We have just heard Mr Schaap say that people can apply for asylum in Turkey. Does the PvdA go that far? Or does Mr Schrijver think that people on European territory should be able to apply for asylum and that it is here that we assess whether Turkey is a safe third country or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u97	The right to asylum is a very fundamental right. At the same time, it is also a universal right. That is not limited to Europe. People have the right to seek asylum in the country of entry. I think we have the right to try to make appropriate agreements with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u98	Finally, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u99	I find Mr Schrijver's answer very unclear. If he would say that people should apply for asylum in Turkey, then we still have the rule that we must first assess whether it is safe there. So there must always be an opportunity to refute that supposed security for an asylum seeker here. That has to be assessed. I hope, however, that Mr Schrijver does not wish to undermine this standard laid down in the procedural directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u100	I'm arguing that I'm unclear. I have just raised this issue about what is and is not safe countries a few moments ago. I also pointed out that we are now in very serious negotiations with Turkey on behalf of the EU. Let us await the outcome of that. However, the basic standard is that the right to apply for asylum remains a very fundamental and universal right. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it all has to do with the stalemate around Syria. It is high time that Europe came up with its own ideas. The 3D approach that we have so often managed to give profile in the Netherlands could be such an idea. Diplomacy is needed: cooperation with other countries and organisations, without claiming the monopoly on morality. Defence is needed, no doubt about it, so the use of military means to protect the civilian population, to disable the command centres and supply lines of the Islamic State, to bring humanitarian aid to the ground and to create buffer zones between the warring groups from a future UN peacekeeping operation. Finally, very important development is needed: if the situation is to be stabilised, there will have to be a prospect of reconstruction and development. Only then can the enormous migratory flows stop. Does the government share such ideas and, if so, what role does it have for Europe, in particular the European Union? Is it true that in the current Syrian peace talks in Geneva, the High Representative and EEAS, the Union's diplomatic service, are virtually out of play? In addition to a human Europe, my group is also concerned with a social Europe. Despite the slight economic recovery in several Member States of the European Union and the ongoing management of the Greek financial crisis, we see that employment is improving slowly and working conditions are under pressure. We welcomed the EUR 315 billion stimulus package launched by the Juncker Commission in November 2014. In addition to public funds, this package should be partly financed, even largely, from private money flows. Can the government give us any further information on the state of play with regard to this funding programme? What happened to that in the year 2015? Can an assessment be made of the impact on activity and employment, particularly for young people and for older people in the category 50-plus? We believe that unemployment in these categories, particularly in the southern parts of the European Union, is still alarmingly high. What special European programmes exist to combat unemployment among young people and the elderly? Are these effective? Can the government provide us with any information on this? Promoting economic growth and creating new jobs is very important, but not enough. My group recalls that when the Juncker Commission took office in 2014 in the European Parliament, it announced its commitment to a triple A status, that is, a ten with a grudge, in the social field. This in response to Eurostat figures on the enormous social inequality within the Union and the observation that almost 25% of the population of the 28 EU Member States are at risk of social exclusion. It is a question of shaping a pro-growth policy which also reduces inequality, as Mr Backer has already mentioned about improving access to education and providing social security for all. We note with interest the objective of the Europe 2020 strategy to lift at least 20 million people out of poverty and social exclusion. Can the government provide an update on the implementation and initial results of this strategy? What priority does the Dutch Presidency give to this important issue? We have already talked about the new European Commission that joined in autumn 2014 with a lot of flair. Juncker focused on a drastic reorganisation of the Commission, with a first Vice-President who became the Dutchman Frans Timmermans "Timmermans "Timmermans "Timmermans "Timmermans "Timmermans "Timmermans "Timmermans "Timmermans "Timmermans "Timmermans "Timmermans "Timmermans. If, for example, we take the international sector as a starting point, we see that Commissioners European Neighbourhood and Enlargement Negotiations, Trade, International Cooperation and Development, and Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Management are all under the leadership of the Vice-President and High Representative Frederica Morgherini, who also represents the EU's external relations. Now that the European Commission is at the helm for a little over 500 days, we ask the government for its impression of the effectiveness of this reorganisation of the Commission. And if we assess the new approach from the perspective of the refugee crisis: is it clustering of Commissioners at this difficult time has proved useful or rather a sta-in-the-way? Speaking of the State of the European Union, of course we cannot ignore the Brexit debate; other speakers also touched on it. We have a great deal to do with keeping the United Kingdom on board the European Union. Often the Netherlands and the UK are allies, at European and global level. The UK is also important as a counterweight to excessive German-French influence. As Prime Minister Rutte said, "Europe is better off in Britain." The recent agreement between President-in-Office Tusk and Prime Minister Cameron obviously raises questions. How does the Netherlands, now President of the EU, consider that not the Commission but the President-in-Office was initially in a forward-looking position here? In addition to the way in which the agreement was drawn up, my group also asked the government to assess the substance of the agreement. Can the waiver of the ever closer union laid down in the Treaties be accepted or is there a risk of undermining the EU's substantive and institutional development? What dimensions of the agreement with the UK are there with Dutch policy starting points? How does the government assess the chances that the Dutch Presidency can help to guide this EU-British agreement smoothly or not after adjustments by the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament, so that there can be no misunderstanding in the British struggle for 'brexit, yes or no' that the European Union itself likes to keep the United Kingdom on board? It is not as big as the subject of the possible British outing, but the referendum in the Netherlands on the association agreement with Ukraine is important. I lively remember the fascinating and I also think careful debate that we held in this Chamber in July 2015. This referendum is about more stability, more security, more democracy and more trade and investment. That is the commitment of the referendum. Yes, we know that Ukraine is still at a very fragile stage in its development towards the rule of law and democracy. Today's Ukraine has many flaws. Together with the democratic forces there, it is now a question of moving the country in the right direction through economic and legal cooperation and not letting the country fall back into instability, corruption and unilateral dependence on Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u101	Mr Schrijver outlines a development in Ukraine that is perhaps desirable, but has not yet been noted. Transparency International notes that Ukraine is currently the most corrupt country in Europe. Those who look at images from the Ukrainian Parliament will say: this is not a very early development, this is total chaos in a totally corrupt country. The question is whether you should associate yourself with such a corrupt country or whether there are other ways to work on improving the situation. Because, of course, we agree, no one wants a corrupt country to remain corrupt. You want it to develop into a country where democratic foundations find a place. How does Mr Schrijver look at the fact that there is now more large-scale corruption than anywhere else in Europe? Do you need to associate with that right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u102	I thank Mr Koffeman for his very pertinent questions. To a large extent, I agree with him. It is true that it is now a question of working with the democratic forces in Ukraine in order to help the country move towards a good direction. That is what the form of an agreement has been chosen for. It is not a question of membership of the European Union or something that is very unusual. The European Union is concluding association agreements every once in a while, this time with Ukraine. Last year we discussed this in detail, as we discussed earlier, an association agreement with six Central American countries and with Chile and Peru. I don't know the numbers of Transparency International, at least I don't have them on hand. I would be interested to know whether they have been so high in Ukraine lately or whether the country has always been a frontrunner. There are also signs that Ukraine is moving in the right direction. There have been fair and free elections a number of times. There is at present a cease-fire in large parts of eastern Ukraine through the interference of the international community. Some of the heavy weapons have been withdrawn. This fragile process of improvement that I see taking place in all my optimism can be supported by institutionalised cooperation with Ukraine's neighbours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u103	I fully understand the desire behind the idea of signing a treaty with the democratic forces, but you do not sign a treaty with democratic forces. After all, you can't make a distinction. You are closing a report with what is currently called the most corrupt country in Europe. The fact that democratic forces are also active in that country is of course without prejudice, but you do not sign a treaty with those democratic or democratic forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u104	We conclude a treaty with the Ukrainian Government as the legal representative of the area and the people, that is to say with President Poroshenko and the elected government of Ukraine, which is based on a majority in the freely elected parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u105	Finally, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u106	This freely elected parliament is characterised by large-scale and massive fights which we have also seen on television. So that cannot be interpreted as democratic forces. You can say that there are democratic forces active in Ukraine, let us welcome that, but there are also a lot of corrupt forces active in Ukraine. The question is, do you want to be associated with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u107	I think we should be careful to make a caricature of the Ukrainian Parliament. There are strong words and a few blows, but it is not exactly a Polish country day either. Admittedly, it's a little less challenged than it is here in this room. In my party's view, this referendum can help to ensure that the European values, which so many have already spoken about in this Chamber today, can apply to the entire population of Ukraine, which is part of Europe as a whole. Let us be clear: the people and parliament of Ukraine have chosen this cooperation with Europe. A "no" means dropping them and making President Putin laugh. Now, in the run-up to the referendum, the question arises as to what the government, including this Minister for European Affairs, can and will contribute to informing voters in the Netherlands properly so that they can make their own informed choices. I'd like to get an answer to this question. I'm rounding up. We are convinced that a well-organised Europe has the potential to deal with even the great problems facing Europe. As discussed in turn today, my group is in favour of a humane, a social, an effective, a Europe which is not crumbling and which is open and cooperative towards the neighbours of the Union. Europe, with its various institutions such as the Council of Europe, the OSCE and more, must offer an alternative to the strong policy of power of the great powers. In the opinion of the PvdA Group, this can only happen if we, together with Mr Knapen, are constantly inspired by the great European values of the democratic rule of law, the strengthening of the international legal order, solidarity between the Member States, the prospect of employment and the eradication of poverty. I await the Government's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u108	In view of the time, I shall now suspend the debate and the sitting for lunch.
