ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I have reached Mrs Klever's request from the PVV whether, by way of derogation from the intended order of speakers, she should be allowed to speak second. I see there is no objection to that. I am now the first to give the floor to Mrs Keijzer on behalf of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. If you ask the Dutchman what he is worried about, the care is mentioned as one of the first subjects. The nursing home care takes an extra place. The sounds we hear about it and the images we see about it are also very disturbing. A lot has to be done to make that care better. One of the issues I would like to focus on today is the regulatory burden. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the NZa sets the rates for inpatient care;]] [[Whereas health care offices, when buying care in the Long-Term Care Act, start with 93% of the rate and that health care institutions can then come to 98% of the rate by meeting all kinds of additional requirements;]] [[declares that this is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit this part of the procurement process by health offices and to reimburse 98% to institutions that meet all legal requirements for the provision of inpatient long-term care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-253]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u3	This purchasing process is one of the reasons why in care much and much too much money is spent on purchasers, accountants and accountants, and not on care. There's got to be a different way of doing that, and there's no other way of doing that. In the AO we also talked about nursing home care, of course, about the Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers manifesto, in which ten proposals are made to bring nursing home care to a higher level. Mrs Klever of the PVV will also be tabling a motion on my behalf, stating that this manifesto should be embraced and asking the Secretary of State to indicate on a point-by-point basis how he is going to implement it. I have raised this before. I hope the Secretary of State is going to embrace this motion so that we can really get the nursing home care together to a higher level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u4	What timing. I now give the floor to Mrs Klever on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. I am here on behalf of my colleague, Mrs Agema, who is unfortunately ill. I have the honour to submit a motion to embrace Hugo Breast and Carin Gaemers' manifesto. This motion was actually signed by the entire Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Chamber embraces the manifesto "Scherp op Elderenzorg', presented by Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers on 25 October 2016,]] [[calls on the Government to indicate at each point how it intends to implement this and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 9 January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klever, Mr Agema, Mr Leijten, Mr Keijzer, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Voortman, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Potters and Mr Volp.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-254]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u6	All over the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. It's pretty unique that there's a Chamberwide motion. In this respect, the Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers manifesto is hopefully a crowbar in the incompetence of this Chamber to do something about the quality of care for the elderly. Is that because of staff? No. Is that because of the elderly? No. That is simply because of politics, by wanting to have insufficient money available for care and by doing studies instead of intervening. For ten years I have had debates here on care for the elderly. It's only been built for two years. In the remaining eight years there was talk of calving, calving, calving. That is also one of the reasons why people who work in the care of the elderly are cynical to the bone. With this Chamber-wide motion today, let us give a signal that hopefully we won't have to anymore. That's what the Secretary of State orders. Older people have nothing to do with it. That is why this Chamber is submitting that motion, but staff are not coming through studies or investigations. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to use all his energy to reach sufficient staff and not to continue studying and talking to drivers, but simply to provide staff, staff, staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks also co-signed the motion on the manifesto. I think it is an important signal that we are saying so widely that it is high time that care for our most vulnerable elderly people was improved. In addition, I would like to table a motion on overhead. I raised that point in the debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that some nursing homes spend more than 10% of their budget on overhead costs such as advertising, administration, support and financial administration;]] [[Whereas care money should be spent as much as possible on care;]] [[calls on the Government to make an overhead standard of up to 10% mandatory for nursing establishments and to require institutions above this standard to justify exceedance in their annual report;]] [[calls on the Government also to require nursing institutions above that standard to draw up a phasing-out plan in order to achieve this below 10%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-255]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u9	GroenLinks understands, of course, that institutions that are above 10% cannot say that they are going down overnight, but we do think it is important that they indicate how they can get there and that they also explain why this percentage is so high among them. Comply and explain; explain and explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. In the AO Nursing Home Care I concluded with the following words: "Let no one forget that we all have the same goal: a good loving care for our elders. All noses are in the same direction." The Carin Gaemers and Hugo Borst manifesto called for the same thing: stop politicising care for the elderly. That doesn't always turn out to be easy in this house, but it worked. I am truly very happy with that. I thank Carin Gaemers, who has spent a great deal of time in this, and I sincerely thank all my colleagues for stepping over their own shadow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. There's a chamber-wide motion. Mrs Klever has just explained and read that motion. I'm very glad there's a Chamber-wide motion. The essence of this is, in fact, to provide sufficient and quality staff in our nursing homes. I think we will have another debate on this next year, but it is a gain that there is now a nice and wide-ranging joint motion. Yesterday we received a letter from the Secretary of State, in which he explained a number of things in response to a commitment regarding D66's desire to arrive at adequate rates. At the beginning of next year, we will receive an impact analysis of the financial consequences of the Responsible Personnel Composition Guide. It's very complicated. It is very good to look at the financial value of the guide, but we do not yet have the adequate rates. Does the Secretary of State wish to provide more clarity on how, when we get the information on the guide in February, we will arrive at adequate rates? I think that is a broad shared wish. There are real bottlenecks. The rates are outdated. They date from years ago, when care in nursing homes was easier than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. My name is also under the motion that has just been filed. I think it's an incredibly important signal we got from Hugo Breast and Carin Gaemers. I am glad that the Chamber is so united and that the names of all the political groups have come under the motion. I look forward to an early response from the Secretary of State, in which he indicates point by point how he will proceed with the manifesto. I have spoken a lot in the debate about dialogue. I really think we should get rid of the lists in the care. Sometimes you can't get around numbers, but numbers don't say everything. I have discussed this with the Secretary of State, but I am not quite sure yet. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the dialogue between the inspection and care institutions on quality of care has not yet been established sufficiently, as is shown, for example, by the possibility for institutions to explain digital questionnaires in just 400 characters;]] [[Whereas recording the quality of care by means of figures as is still the case........... only makes sense if institutions are able to explain the inspection so that the story behind the figures becomes visible;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the quality framework becomes more than a accountability document, i.e. a tool for dialogue;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, in general terms, the dialogue on quality of care, both in professional setting and in society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-256]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. I come here for a special purpose, a purpose which I do not recall having happened more often: to celebrate a motion. It's about the Klever motion, including a whole list of names. In the end, but not without a blow, it has succeeded in getting a motion that is so widely signed. I find that an incredibly encouraging signal in response to Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers' "Scherp on Elder Care" manifesto. This has hit a string in many people in the country and has also been widely shared here in politics. The spirit, the message was embraced to be good for our elderly people, to feel the same urgency and the same intention, apart from all the precise policies that we are always discussing here, to ensure that care for the elderly is as good as possible. That is also underlined in the motion. In doing so, we show that the signal has been picked up in order to stop one lesson from politicising, to step over one's own shadow, to use that image again, and to actually say to one another: that is the direction we want to go. I ask the Secretary of State to join us in celebrating this special moment and to come back later with an impact per item, so that we can have a worthy and good follow-up debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. I agree with the fine words about the manifesto that many colleagues have already spoken. Let me be clear that I think the best nursing homes should become the norm for all nursing homes. I would therefore like to thank Hugo Borst and Carin for the manifesto and for the efforts they have made, which have enabled us to support it in the Chamber. I have one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that vulnerable people and their relatives should be able to assume that care in nursing homes is good quality and safe;]] [[Whereas the major differences between nursing homes in care for the elderly should be eliminated and the best nursing homes should become the norm for the whole of care for the elderly;]] [[Whereas the quality framework developed by the Dutch Health Institute and the Responsible Personnel Composition Guidance, which is part of it, provide binding frameworks from 1 January 2017 to achieve better care for the elderly in the short term;]] [[Considers that the quality of all nursing homes will be at a higher and consistent level if institutions share and discuss experiences, errors, best practices and quality questions so that they can learn from each other;]] [[Considers that inter-administrative coordination and accountability to both internal and external stakeholders, including the Client Board, Health Care Inspectorate (IGZ) and healthcare offices, can make a significant contribution;]] [[calls on the government, in its consultation with the Zorginstituut Nederland, to stress the importance of administrative intervision and to explore ways of explicitly including administrative intervision and accountability in the quality framework,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Potters and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-257]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mr. Chairman. It is perhaps appropriate to first answer one specific question from Mrs Bergkamp and then proceed to the interpretation of the motions. Mrs Bergkamp asked me to outline the relationship between the guide and the cost study. It started the other way around. I've ordered a cost check. I'd have done that before. The Healthcare Authority indicated that it would come forward with the large comprehensive study in the second half of 2017, which, by the way, covers all tariffs in the Wlz. Mrs Bergkamp asked if I would be prepared to see if we could get a look at what we are talking about in the spring. The intention of my message is to do exactly that, so that we can already see in the spring the consequences of the manifesto and the staff standard. Then we can have the necessary debate on this in the spring. This is without prejudice to the fact that the large maintenance of the rates throughout the Wlz must of course continue. The debate that will take place in the spring will, of course, also have implications for the tariff debate. It will undoubtedly get through to it if it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u16	Glad the Secretary of State explains that there is a clear relationship with my request to get that information earlier. My question is specific. The Secretary of State is talking about a standard. I am assuming that the guidance and standards will be looked at in order to finally see what that means for tariffs. So can the Secretary of State outline in more detail how the information, if we have that information on the financial impact of the guidance, will reach the adequate rates? That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u17	There are two different angles that allow you to look at the rates. The Healthcare Institute does that very widely. That looks at whether there has been a care-gravity development that means that you have to adjust the care-gravity, which leads to different rates. In addition, there is the staff guidance board, which influences the rates. Both are being watched. On the first piece, which we are talking about in the context of the manifesto, I am prepared to make a picture in the spring. But we look at this widely, because rates are about more than just staff standards. But I would like to have as much information as possible on the standard, the guide and its consequences in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u18	I'm glad the Secretary of State's gonna sort this out. Can I conclude from this that the 2.7 billion referred to by the chairman of Fundis has really been taken out of the sky? After all, the Secretary of State still has to do that research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u19	I do not know the calculation of the President of Fundis at all, and indeed I have yet to do any research. I'm sticking to my own grades, which I'm working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u20	Then we'll go to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u21	I'll start with the motion in part No. 253 by Mrs Keijzer. I understand her point very well and I am very much working on it. The discussion that's behind it is next. On the one hand, we must avoid too much administrative burden on contracting. That's what the motion is about. On the other hand, we also want to look at the role of health care agencies or should be in the quality debate. It may well be that if we want more quality of nursing homes, that is a matter for the administrations and boards of supervision. Then it is a matter for the supervision itself. It could also be a case for the purchase. Then it's the question of which nursing homes you actually give money to. I do not think it is right to have a general ban on this. I would suggest to the applicant that the motion be retained. I had already promised to come to the Chamber with a letter on simplification and administrative burdens in the Long-Term Care Act. I would also like to take with me the proposals on the buying-in of care by the health offices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u22	Let's do it according to custom. The intention is for you to give an opinion on the motion and, if necessary, for you to say something about whether you would like it to be held. What's your verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u23	I think she is premature at this stage, but I understand what the performer wants. I do not know whether I can suggest to the President that my suggestion is to the applicant to hold the motion until the letters I have already promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u24	Good. This isn't exactly a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u25	Well, I understand the Secretary of State very well: if I don't hold the motion, he'll advise against her. The complicated thing is that I've been hearing the Secretary of State say for four years: I'm working on it. But this motion is very clear. If an institution meets all the legal requirements, and there are a few of them, we will not go into the policy plan circus again. I'd be so thrilled if the Secretary of State once added the deed to the speech. He wants to delete rules? Well, here's another possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u26	"There are a few of them." That's right. We may need to get rid of a few, but we are also working on quality standards and staff guidance, which may lead to changes in quality standards in nursing homes. I want us to determine very well with each other the role of the healthcare office in achieving that high quality. So I do not think it is right to nail it down now and to tie it down to the percentages on which we still need to have the discussion. If the motion stays that way, I'll have to dissuade her, but my suggestion is to arrest her. Then I come to the motion on part No. 254.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u27	I have the impression that the motion in part No. 253 just gets in the mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u28	The motion in part No. 254 is about the manifesto. Mr Van der Staaij said the words that were worthy of advocacy that we should also occasionally celebrate a few things with each other. I think that the catalysing effect of the Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers manifesto has led us to paraphrase Mrs Leijten's words about the quality of nursing homes for a very long time. Over the past two years, we have been doing this a little more intensively. Now the House's statement is that we must embrace the manifesto. There will probably be differences in the effect. They have also been discussed in the debate, but the question is whether this is important now. It is now important for us to make a ruling on the issues that are important in order to further improve the quality of nursing care. Indeed, I think that is an encouraging signal and a good and strong message. I have already said in my own contribution that I consider it to be a support for the struggle we are all fighting to ensure that the quality of nursing homes continues to improve and meet the requirements that we are allowed to impose on them in a modern age. So I think the motion supports policy. I would like to accept the motion, but I can also imagine that the authors have an interest in putting the motion to the vote. However, I would like to take her over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u29	We're gonna do this by the book again. The Secretary of State says he wants to take over the motion. Does any of the members object to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u30	No, I have no objection, but I would like to thank the Secretary of State for taking over the motion. That only shows the urgency of the whole Chamber. If we can arrange it quickly in this way, I think it is a nice gesture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u31	The motion-Klever c.s. (, No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u32	In the motion in part No. 255 the government is invited to ensure that nursing establishments with an overhead standard are above 10% with a phasing-out plan to get the standard below 10%. The manifesto says that there must be a standard for the overhead. In the plan of approach Dignity and pride that same movement is also made. A motion has just been adopted asking me to respond point by point to all the points of the manifesto. One part of this is the overhead standard discussion. At the risk of you correcting me, Mr President, I would ask the applicant to hold this motion until I come forward with my response to that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u33	I'll hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u34	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (31765, No. 255), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 255/1999. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u35	Now the motion in part No. 256.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u36	Yeah, I'm gonna go into the motion on part number one. 256. It calls on Mrs Dik-Faber to promote, in general terms, the discussion on the quality of care and not to paraphrase it with lists. This is indeed a discussion that should be held with professionals and also in society. I have the impression it's being fed. That is indeed important. I assume, by the way, that the Health Institute does not use lists in the question of quality of life, because you have to talk to both professionals and residents and their relatives about this. So we're already doing this. As far as I am concerned, it is no harm to stress once again that this is the starting point in the further development of policies. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u37	I am, of course, pleased with the "judge chamber" given to this motion by the Secretary of State. However, he also says 'we are already doing it', but I would like to contradict that. 'Cause this isn't happening enough. There may be a bet, but there really has to be a tooth. I was visiting a nursing home last Friday. The stories you hear there simply show that the talk about what quality of care is not enough. That's really still in the kids' shoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u38	We are not going to have that discussion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u39	So the motion has been filed to put a tooth in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u40	My remark 'we are already doing it' did not make it clear that we are already doing it to a sufficient extent, but that it is part of our discussions with the Healthcare Institute. We need to look more closely at the quality of life. Part of it is that you can't do that with lists, but you should do it in a different way. So we are already doing this in the debate on the quality standard. That also indicates that it has to be done in a different way. In the motion in part No. 257 call on Mr Potters and Mrs Voortman to emphasise to the government the importance of administrative intervision and to consider whether this could be included in the second quality framework. It is clear that quality of care and staff guidance are not only a matter of measuring basic safety and dialogue on quality of life, but also of discussing good governance. In the new era, the discussion we are having with each other, more is also expected of drivers. Drivers should not only pay attention to the solvency and continuity of finances, but should also focus on the quality of care for the residents they care for. Good driver thus becomes an integral part of the supervision. We are having this discussion now, and it is not without obligation. If we are going to have quality standards relating to the quality and use of staff, this will require something from the directors and the supervisory boards. Yeah, it also requires something from the supervisor, the inspection. Yeah, it also requires something from the buyers. Yeah, it also requires some of our response to signals. But it also requires something from the directors, and that is why I think it is a good thing to consider with the Healthcare Institute whether this issue of good governance can also be taken into account in the quality framework. That is quite difficult, but it is a point, because we cannot stress enough that good governance is also an essential part of good longterm care in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u41	What about the verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u42	For that reason, I leave the judgment to Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mrs Leijten has a question about the State Secretary's opinion on a motion from a colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yes, I have a question about good governance about what this motion is about. Now a request is made to the Quality Institute. Does the Secretary of State wish to add that it should be a break in the driver's carousel that we regularly encounter in the problems we see? In other words, ask the Quality Institute to look at that as well. We see that there are many kinds of intervision that can lead to drivers being hit on the shoulder by whom we think: go do something good in your institution. It shouldn't be if it's up to me. I would like to hear the Secretary of State pronounce this, otherwise I cannot support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u45	If we say together that the new era, to say the least, brings with it other administrative qualities that are partly fed by the quality standards debate, but also by the expectations and legitimate demands of residents and society, then what should be the governance culture and qualities of directors? I see the motion as a call to make this part of the quality framework, if possible. I think the supervisory boards should do a lot about that too. But if this is the case and we share the view that these are the requirements that drivers have to meet, then this will also help in those cases where it is a question of whether a driver meets the requirements that apply to those institutions. We cannot arrange here with each other which drivers are hired. We can, however, arrange for the requirements that we impose on drivers to be clear and transparent; that it is a matter of the industry's honour to pay attention to them and that he also brings forward measures to this end. This will mean that there will be no carousel of people who do not actually meet. I very much agree with Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u46	We all know the bigger the car, the higher the salary and the bigger the parking space, the worse the care in the institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u47	You have received an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u48	No, I can't get an answer. The Secretary of State asks the Quality Institute to look at standards for directors. I would like to hear him say that it is the intention of us to break down the behaviour of the fatter car, the fatter salary and the worse care on the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u49	We all want to break through that. I have understood the motion in such a way that it is asked not only to look at the quality standards of care or the guidance for the staff, but also at the important and sometimes decisive influence of governance and good governance. It is also a matter of keeping to the expectations that we have of this. This will mean that we will also make demands on drivers. That is why we are making demands on drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u50	Thank you very much. The debate shall be...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr President, I would like to make one more comment on the motions, including the motion that has been taken over. That remark is about the dates. We have now agreed on different dates in a number of motions. The motion that has been taken over says: go point-by-point on the manifesto before 9 January. Another motion calls for an initial picture of the guide somewhere in February. Anyway, there is the reporting Dignity and pride. I would like to try to do that together so that we can have an integral debate on it. I can also do it differently, namely that we come first with a point-by-point reaction to the manifesto, then with the guidance and finally with the rest. I don't care. I'm just gonna put the question in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u52	I see a lot of MPs nodding yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u53	I hear Mrs Leijten asking if everything can come before 9 January. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u54	The Secretary of State has just taken over a motion on a point-by-point response to the manifesto, which states the date of 9 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u55	So there's gonna be one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u56	I think he should stick to that. If he does not manage to add the documents to the Quality Institute, that would be special. In the previous debate, he said that 1 January will begin. That's special, but apparently a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u57	For the sake of clarity, a motion has just been adopted asking for a response to all the points mentioned. It states the date of 9 January. If more can be added before that time or at the same time, then so be it. If it isn't, it's gonna be later. That's how we understood and agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-7.u58	I propose that we vote on the motions next Tuesday.
