ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u1	We shall begin with the first term of office. Then we'll have dinner. The continuation is planned at another time. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I am the first to give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the Curaçao elections, democracy won it from the gambling industry. I congratulate Mr Koeiman and look forward to good cooperation. However, the gaming world's grip on politics is unabated. Gerrit Schotte was sentenced to three years in prison but is simply in parliament, next to Amparo dos Santos, brother of convicted gambling boss Robbie. On St.Maarten, Theo Heyliger won the election and the gambler's friend is simply in the government. In addition, the investigation into the murder of Helmin Wiels still hangs like a shadow over the islands, because the clients may have ties with the gammafia. The SP voted against the new political relations in 2010, like the VVD, for example, because the islands were not ready. We'll take responsibility now. SP and VVD have jointly asked for an investigation into the gambling industry, which is now being done together with the United States. Can the Minister tell us more about this? Can he also assure us that the new dominant position of Theo Heyliger on Saint Martin will not hinder this investigation? Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin are beautiful islands with beautiful people, but these islands have no future as long as they are colonized by the gokmafia. From Curaçao, at least 400 gambling sites are active, targeting the whole world, with which probably billions are laundered. Is the Minister prepared to make arrangements with the new government of Curaçao to check these gambling sites and, if necessary, close them? Another question is where the account will end up if the countries in the Kingdom are financially sinking through the ice. That question is acute for Aruba, which made a dubious deal with Venezuela to restart the refinery. The small island stands for hundreds of millions of bail in a project that must go wrong. Can the Minister exclude that account from the Netherlands? We ourselves have seen how difficult it is to run small islands in the Caribbean. We invest a lot in Bonaire, Saba and Statia, but still many people there are disappointed. I now show a beautiful brochure of RE/MAX, real estate agent in Bonaire, with beautiful villas right on the beach for only 2.5 million dollars. The usual Bonairian can't afford that. On Bonaire, the contrasts between rich people from abroad and Bonairians are growing more and more often unable to make ends meet. In the Lower House, we have often asked the Minister to set a minimum social level to combat poverty and offer young people a future. The First Chamber has even passed a motion, but the government refuses to implement it. I don't understand. We spend so much money on these islands, where there is so much wealth. Then why do we accept so much poverty? Everyone also sees that the minimum wage is far too low to make ends meet. Why is it so hard to pay people on the islands decently? At Statia, the American oil company NuStar makes large profits speculating in oil, profits that people on the island notice far too little. A new contract will have to be signed with NuStar soon. Can the Minister promise that this company will pay more taxes? Statia's supervision of NuStar is particularly poor, as it turned out yesterday. The company does not comply with the rules for oil transhipment, with the danger of massive explosions and fires. How is the government going to act on this? Has the Minister contacted NuStar, for example? Every Caribbean island in the Kingdom has major financial problems due to poor supervision and poor policies, but there is also an exception. That is the beautiful Saba, where the board has put things in order in recent years. It is precisely the smallest island that seems to make the best use of the possibilities offered by the Kingdom. The Chamber previously agreed with Saba's leaders on Saba that the island itself would carry out more tasks. I can see that discussions are now taking place, but not that concrete agreements have been made. What I fear is that political agreements we have made with Saba's administration in the ten ministries here in The Hague. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister how we give Saba more freedom and what tasks are transferred to the island administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with a special budget, namely the Kingdom relations budget. Today is 11-10-2016. Yesterday it was exactly six years since we changed the political structure of the Kingdom. It then became a kingdom with three beautiful countries next to the Netherlands, with beautiful beaches and situated on a beautiful part of this earth. These countries have enormous potential, partly because of all these things. I dare say that the countries of the Kingdom in the Caribbean have the potential to become the Monaco of the Caribbean. However, they are also countries that we have no control over. They are countries that can take out unlimited loans and that do not have the finances in order. They are countries where brothels are in the hands of politicians and countries for which we pay the bill. The VVD is very concerned about this. These countries can do whatever they want, because the Dutch taxpayer guarantees. It is time for the countries themselves to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u4	I'm pretty visual. I hear the VVD saying: let's imagine these islands that they can become the Monaco of the Caribbean. When I think of Monaco, I think of paying no taxes, a lot of gambling and the smell of oil, of all those racing cars. Isn't that exactly what we're trying to avoid in these islands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u5	It's just what you want to see. The VVD is a party of progress optimism. She sees people who are happy, who live in beautiful houses, who have beautiful work, who simply pay taxes in their state, where income is properly arranged, where there is supervision and where there is a parliament. That's what the VVD sees, but apparently D66 sees it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u6	I understand that VVDs always get a little excited when they see that a lot of rich people live in a small place that doesn't have to care about others. The only agreement I see is that the monarchs of Monaco were once pirates and on these islands in the Caribbean there were also many pirates. So I'd like to go along with a little bit of that equation. For the future, however, I would like us to find an alternative for oil refineries that are destroying health. I wish the difference between rich and poor wouldn't be as crazy as in Monaco. If there are people living there who deserve the minimum wage, except the cleaners. However, I think they have a cottage just across the French border, which they might be able to rent. Then gamble. The previous speaker already talked about it and I think the VVD also has problems with it if it happens on such a scale that it is no longer something like a cozy pastime. I think that for these islands perhaps people are listening that a more balanced example and a more balanced goal for the future would be a good thing. On the other hand, if the VVD wants to be seen so badly, as Monaco party, that means something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u7	It's about seeing potential. Mr Van Raak and I are in complete agreement on the gambling industry. This must be clearly addressed and monitored. In fact, if taxes were to be paid on what is gambled on the different islands, simply through proper supervision, those countries would have huge revenues. Then there would be absolutely no poverty. That's the core of my story. Mr Pechtold said that Monaco may not even have so many poor people. That could be very good on the islands, too, if we allow that wealth to land properly. There's that potential. I am convinced of that, given the amount of money going through which no tax is paid and which is not supervised. I am pleased that Mr Van Raak and I have taken serious steps in this respect and that colleagues in the Chamber are taking part, because that is crucial. That money ends up in the wrong pockets, and that is the problem of the islands. That is also the concern of the VVD: if the money goes into the wrong pockets, we can scream a lot of things and decide a lot of things in this Chamber, for example that the refinery has to go away, but nothing will happen if the wrong people are in the wrong places and make the wrong decisions and have the wrong money in the pocket. We can yell a lot of things, but then nothing's gonna happen. During the budget debate in 2011, I mentioned my acquaintance with the then new Prime Minister of Aruba, Mr Eman. I found it then someone who radiated positive energy and who seemed to have the ambition to keep the relationship with the Netherlands warm. The Government of Aruba also had the ambition to put public finances in order by cutting into a government apparatus that had grown too fast under previous government offices in Aruba, according to Mr Eman. That didn't work out at all. Nice promises, but giving away jobs to potential voters turned out to be more important than putting finances in order. In fact, the Minister for Finance of Aruba, Mr Bermudez, said earlier this year that there would be no redundancies, while Prime Minister Eman had planned to achieve a reduction of 5% per year. The IMF also indicates in a 2015 country report that "elections scheduled in 2017 pose an additional risk to achieve these goals." According to this year's research by the Stichting Dijkelijk Bestuur Aruba, there is 43% excess staff within the Aruban government that costs 250 million Aruban guilders a year. What do you mean, getting the budget in order? The problem is clear, only the strength and will are lacking. On Curaçao, a convicted criminal as a list leader simply participates in the election. This can also be done within this Kingdom, because the countries are, after all, autonomous. This criminal scandal also affects the reputation of the Kingdom and thus the prestige of the Netherlands. There's nothing we can do about it, because it's a nationwide disorder. It is time to put an end to this. It's choosing or sharing, and we need to stop a hybrid state system that's wronging everyone. There is a lot to change on the islands and that will never happen in the current construction with the Netherlands that always comes along as a safety net or as a sugar daddy. What is true in small terms, however, is also true in large scale. Whoever has to is always capable of more than who doesn't have to. And whoever doesn't have to, will never discover the unexpected within himself. I think it's time to give this to the islands. The VVD Group wanted a more fundamental revision of the Statute in order to enable a commonest-like construction in the Kingdom and to put an end to the current situation. The changes proposed by the government to the Staff Regulations did not go far enough. This has been one of the reasons why not only the VVD, but also the SP voted against the legislative proposal on the amendment of the Statute. That is why my next question to the Minister. Does the Kingdom no longer fall under the obligation to decolonise? If it is still covered, what is the time frame for not to be included? With the introduction of the Statute, we have reached half of the independence of the countries. It is now time to get clarity, for the Netherlands, but also for Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is essential for the countries to go to genuine independence and for that we will have to agree on a common timetable. This independence may or may not be within a commonwealth, but that choice is up to the countries. Only when it's clear can we actually take steps. The concerns about fair elections continue to play in the background. Fair elections are the basis of good governance and trust in the government. Independent election observers, wherever they come from, can make a very good contribution to this. Why do the countries in the National Council of Ministers not agree that there will always be election observation at elections, wherever and whenever? Can the Minister give an opinion on this? Is this something that can or should be arranged by national law? The refinery on Aruba is becoming a farce, on the island, but also internationally. What agreements have been made and with whom and who pays what? How can Aruba, with a debt ratio above 80%, issue a guarantee of more than USD 300 million? Has the College Aruba financial supervision already looked at the deal and the risks of this budget deal? Who's gonna pay for that gas line and build it? That's also a quarter of a billion dollars. It's a black box, not just for me, but I think it's for everyone. This also has all aspects of an election stunt on Aruba, both from the MEP and from the AVP. Nobody's gonna say no to Aruba for fear of losing votes. Like lemmings, the Aruban states run into the abyss. And who's in danger of taking the fall again? The Dutch taxpayer. If Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten want to continue making these kinds of choices, choices that pose risks to the Kingdom and therefore to the Netherlands, the VVD cannot and will not take responsibility for this. I don't think you should. We are halfway through the independence of all four countries in the Kingdom. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is now time for that second and final half. It's time for clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u8	Mr. Chairman. Today is exactly six years and one day after 10-10-10. The Netherlands is larger than the twelve provinces or 390 municipalities in Europe. This week we are talking about the three countries and the three special municipalities overseas: the countries of Curaçao, Sint-Maarten, Aruba and the special municipalities of Saba, Sint-Eustatius and Bonaire. These countries and municipalities do not always get the attention they deserve. The report by the Spies Committee is not satisfactory with regard to developments since 10-10-10. The committee noted that the departments each have their own focus and use their own resources on the islands. The fragmentation often does not work economically efficiently and sometimes even counter-productively. How can the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as a coordinating minister, ensure that coherent priorities are set and that full funding is provided? The CDA Group is not reassured by the Minister of Defence's replies on the coastguard budget. The Minister says that fluctuations in the exchange rate no longer directly need to lead to radical measures for the various parts of the budget of Kingdom relations, including the Coast Guard Caribbean strand. In general consultations on Venezuela, the Minister has promised the Chamber to present an integral cabinet position of Defence, Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs that answers the questions as to whether the Coast Guard can handle the current and additional tasks related to the worrying situation in Venezuela, and whether funding has been secured in a structural manner. Do we even want to know about this exchange rate discussion? We are concerned that the funding is structurally secured. For the CDA Group, it is clear that it is very important at this time that the Caribbean Coast Guard remains strong. Last week, the Chamber discussed the initiative proposal by our colleague Bosman to make demands on Dutch people from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten who want to settle in the Netherlands. That was a bad proposal, unfortunately, to solve a real problem. For years, Dutch municipalities have been faced with the problem of unemployed Antillean young people. The cabinet has not yet managed to find an adequate solution. The government agreement put forward a proposal for regulation of establishment on the basis of criteria such as those applied by the countries themselves, including a criminal record or income check. When will the Minister take control of the administration again? When does the government come forward with a proper proposal, in line with the countries concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u9	I'm surprised to listen to the CDA. There was a plan. It could have been. It would provide a solution. Now the CDA comes up with "there's got to be a hurry, there's got to be something else." The CDA could have voted in favour. We'd have gone a lot further. Then the problem had been dealt with. But the CDA turned away. Now suddenly there's a tough text from the CDA that something has to happen. You should have just said yes last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u10	Chamberwide was the opinion last week that the VVD proposal was a bad proposal. Even the Council of State wiped it off the table. We would like the Minister himself to take the initiative and come forward with a decent proposal, aligned with the countries, so that we can solve this serious problem together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u11	I am happy to allow interruptions, because I like debate, but of course we are not going to repeat the debate last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u12	Mr President, I am being challenged. A number of falsehoods are also told. The Council of State did not wipe the proposal off the table. He has made serious comments, but not wiped it off the table. Now I know the CDA. Calling a problem, but if the solution is there, turn it away. Don't go through with it where it's necessary. Now I know the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u13	I think Chamberwide recognised that it was a bad proposal. I'm moving on. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment announced in the budget a sum of 100 million for children growing up in poverty. That's about 200 euros per child. Is there 1 million available to the children of the BES Islands? How is this money deployed in the BES islands and how do the children themselves see it? Addressing the problem of poverty in the BES islands cannot be achieved without a commitment to economic developments. In order to take full advantage of economic opportunities, islands will need an infrastructure, both physical and digital, that meets all modern requirements. Unfortunately, investment in infrastructure in the islands is not accompanied by maintenance reservations, which we would never understand here. At Saint-Eustatius a recycling plant has been shut down for a year because there are no resources for its operation. The new cliques have never been used. Airports must comply with international safety standards, but not exploitation. That is right, but have these costs been reflected in the investments? There's late maintenance on the roads. An adequate infrastructure is necessary for economic development. How does the Minister ensure the sustainability of investments? Elections have taken place both on Saint Martin and on Curaçao in recent weeks. Political stability on the islands is very important for sustainable development. How does the government assess the outcome of the elections? How can the rule of law be secured on the islands and protected from corruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u14	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV Group. I see that Mr Van Laar of the PvdA is ahead of schedule. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u15	No problem, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands officially has 17 million inhabitants since 21 March 2016, but our Kingdom has of course reached that milestone before. We are never alone within our kingdom. On the other side of the ocean are six islands, three of which are autonomous countries and three are part of the Netherlands. The islands are very different from us and from each other, but we are also connected, for example by our language, our history and our nationality. Basic points which make us one together: one Kingdom of about 17,5 million residents. And so we are also concerned about the problems on the islands. Poverty, for example, under which children grow up, is still a thorn in our eyes. Every child in our Kingdom is entitled to sufficient food, a safe family, a good school and a lot of fun. That is why it is a good step in this budget that a million more will be available for the poorest children in the Caribbean Netherlands. We welcome that. More about that later. On Curaçao, the Partido MAN has booked a handsome election victory. The PvdA would like to congratulate her on this and wish her success in building a solid coalition, which will make Curaçao stronger, more social and hopefully cleaner in the coming years. Cleaner, we hope, at least by reducing emissions from the Isla refinery and the power plant and opting for a better Isla or perhaps a green city from 2019. I thank the Minister for his letter on the implementation of the motion we tabled on the Isla and for answering the written questions on closing the school because of the toxic smoke. The execution of the motion will take longer than foreseen. At the same time, we hope that these emissions will actually be reduced in the coming months. In what way will the Minister make a commitment to this? Is the Minister prepared to ask the new government of Curaçao as soon as possible to inform them of their plans with the Isla and the Chamber? In Aruba, politics seems to have opted for a less clean future. The refinery's opening up again. The fact that the operator is a subsidiary of the owner of the Isla refinery, which poisons Curaçao, does not reassure at all. The budget does not seem to be getting any cleaner either. Many risks and costs end up in the hands of the government. Why is the purchase of refineries a matter of country which the CAft (College Aruba financial supervision) has nothing to say about, whereas this purchase clearly has implications for the budget? On Saint Martin there will be a coalition of the two largest parties, as we understand. We hope that this will create new stability and that the island will continue to work on good governance and fair elections. The latter is a matter of concern, not only on Saint Martin. We welcome the Minister's efforts to see whether we can work together with those countries to ensure free and fair elections. In the Caribbean Netherlands the progress is visible and palpable. The Netherlands invests in education, care, services and sustainability in the islands. Those investments are having an effect. We discussed this issue in June and congratulated the Cabinet on the commitment and results achieved, but just before that consultation, the National Ombudsman and the Human Rights College urged the Second Chamber to set up an independent and accessible legal counter. I understand that there is already a window at the Dutch Caribbean Office where people can go if they want to sue. Could this window perhaps be extended so that basic questions such as "what is my right?" And "Where can I go to get my rights?" can be answered there? For several years, the Netherlands has been focusing specifically on improving children's rights in the islands. We read that the debate on violence in education is now starting. I heard Saba was attracted to a good child rights coordinator. On the three islands, a council of children is now being set up so that children can have more influence on decisions that affect them. The positive education is also becoming a premonition. That's all progress. In the Minister's letter the ambition and positive energy sounds by continuing to work with UNICEF to improve the situation of children. We welcome that too. Yesterday was a special day, but today too, because today is World Girls' Day. Today my office was taken over for some time by a number of girls who are committed to the rights of girls around the world. You will hear that in the course of my speech. We do not really know how the girls are doing in the Caribbean Netherlands. We have little specific data that can tell us that. We don't have data on children, but we don't have data on boys and girls at all. The collection of information is very important because we need to know how big the problems on the islands really are. We are pleased that Caribbean Netherlands is being included in the Youth Monitor, but I heard that many data are not available in the Caribbean Netherlands and that it is therefore difficult to fill that Youth Monitor properly. Plan Netherlands and ONE today presented a report called Counting the Invisible. They confirm that specific information is essential to be able to take targeted action against child poverty and against discrimination against girls. I call on the Minister to promote the collection of data on the islands, including the differences between boys and girls, but in a way that suits the islands. Does the Minister agree with us that there may be much more to work with qualitative data on the islands, but that it should be collected continuously? A good step in this budget is that a million more will be available to support the poorest children on the islands. When looking for ways to support the poorest children in a targeted way, we ask for specific attention for girls on this World Girls' Day. Although data is lacking, we know that the position of girls is not equivalent in the Caribbean Netherlands. Is the Cabinet prepared to consider whether these additional resources will benefit boys and girls equally and perhaps even girls a little bit more, and to inform the Chamber about this when the spending is chosen? UNICEF stated in a letter last Monday that as long as families and children live in poverty and are in the process of survival, they cannot make full use of their efforts to improve children's rights. UNICEF and the Human Rights College advocate setting a social minimum based on living costs. Will the Minister follow them in that? The Labour Party also wants to do something concrete about poverty, in which children are now growing up. The cabinet indicates that it is not enthusiastic about increasing child benefit. We had asked in a motion for a resolution to investigate this. Does the cabinet perhaps see more in the introduction of a child-related budget, because it could be more specific for the poorest children? As I said, we are connected to the people on the islands, not only in mind but almost physically, at least digitally. I put a call on Facebook in which I put the inhabitants of Saba, Sint-Eustatius and Bonaire in what ways it still seems as if they live abroad, while Caribbean Netherlands is part of the country The Netherlands. I didn't mean the weather or the vegetation. Dozens of residents have responded with substantive suggestions. Bundled are these twenty pages full of comments and also a report. I'd like to offer it to the Minister. The inhabitants indicate concrete problems and often also solutions. Some are seemingly simple. For example, a Dutch number from the Tax Administration would give some residents a lot of money. Why can't residents of Caribbean Netherlands actually apply for a DigiD or get proof of their social security number on the island? I hope that the Minister will respond in writing to all the questions and responses. Of course, he doesn't have to do that this week, but he may be able to respond to some reactions on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u16	I will ask the messenger to give the document to the minister, but I suspect you will also find a way to present the report to the colleagues in this Chamber. That then goes in a less formal and more direct way, so I have the impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u17	Mr. Chairman. The Rutte II cabinet period is almost over, fortunately, because the cabinet has created a path of suffering for Dutch citizens in many areas. Today we can take stock of kingdom relations. What has the Dutch government achieved for the Dutch citizen when it comes to the problems of islands such as Curaçao and Sint-Maarten? The answer to that question is short: nothing. Nothing has been achieved and nothing has improved at all. Let's start at the beginning: the coalition agreement. In it it was agreed that the Netherlands would establish requirements for residents of Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and Aruba. If they want to stay in our country, they should meet conditions. Specifically, a check on income and criminal record was mentioned. The minister tried to settle this with the islands, but was sent over and over again with a brat in the reed. Invitations to talk about this weren't even answered: pure sacrifice in fact. Mr Bosman of the VVD Group tried to settle the same point with an initiative law. We know the outcome. The Labour Party didn't want it. The result is that nothing changes at all. That's nice for the islands, because they have once again been confirmed in the idea that it pays to train the business. Just counter everything as much as you can and you'll get away with it. This practice of failure is in fact a model for everything that is going on between the Netherlands and the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. Everything stagnates, nothing works, nothing gets solved. Each time we stand here we mention a laundry list of exactly the same problems. There is always a new list of financial problems and of crime, corruption and political chaos. And on all these problems, the cabinet has not been able to get a handle on any of them. The only thing is that four years have been added to an already too long period of overseas misery, for which the Dutch taxpayer has once again paid a much too high price. That's all that's happened. Sure, here and there some attempts have been made to get something done. Think of setting up an integrity room on the mob island of Saint Martin. But the only characteristic of that kind of effort is that they're always in the soup. This is a good time to ask the Minister himself to take stock. How does he think it went? How many blind walls has he counted himself against which he has always walked? The Minister can't help but admit that we haven't gotten a millimeter. Then there is only one conclusion: if you know and have found that the overseas chaos is insoluble, the Netherlands should simply ensure that it no longer suffers from it. Then you just have to make sure that no more taxpayers' money disappears in all those bottomless pits. It is therefore high time to finally take the first step to get rid of the islands. That remains the commitment of the PVV and we also know what to do about it. We need to get rid of Article 73 of the UN Charter. That is crucial, because this strange article imposes a far-reaching duty of care on the islands in almost all areas. Read it. This duty of care is about security, education, political and socio-economic conditions. You can't think of it that crazy or we're responsible. The worst part is that this article also ensures that the Dutch people do not even have a voice. The Dutch people must not unilaterally decide to break ties with the islands. It can't be. That can't be acceptable to anyone here. It's a coercion clause, and we need to get rid of it as soon as possible. As long as that doesn't happen, nothing changes and we stand here every year with the same lists of problems. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I have one other question for the Minister. As long as we are stuck with the islands, the PVV wants at least the guarantee that the Dutch taxpayer will never be charged for financial maladministration or deficiencies on the islands. After all, the nightmare of large-scale debt restructuring some years ago is still fresh in memory. It cost the taxpayer a fortune, but it did not solve the financial problem. Can the Minister guarantee that the bill for financial maladministration or deficits on the islands will not end up on the Dutch taxpayer's plate again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u18	Mr. Chairman. It has been ten years since I was allowed to do Kingdom relations as Minister. It is an honor to return to this subject. However, it also feels a bit like putting on an old coat. Many old topics and old reflexes are as topical as they were before. For example, we-they-thinking is still strongly present, as can be seen in the law-bosman of the VVD, who wants to distinguish by origin. Think of a prime minister who says about independence: call and we'll settle that. Think also of the accusing finger of the islands to The Hague with the "they have done it again," as The Hague itself often does to Brussels. The Netherlands is no longer a coloniator and the islands are not calimero. We are all Dutch with the same Dutch passport; that can be said more often. We need to take more opportunities together. What a profit it was, for example, that Aruba helped us get that vote done at the United Nations. Unfortunately, however, we must also take the threats seriously together. I am thinking in particular of an unstable Venezuela right off the coast. First of all, I would like to say something about the autonomous countries. It seems that Rutte II has two attitudes to this. Either they go in like an elephant in a porcelain cabinet, like the Aruban budget, or the announcement is backed up: it is an autonomous country matter; that is not what we are talking about. But it's not that black and white. A lot of business concerns all of us. Sometimes I really think, "What are we talking about here?" Whether you live in the Netherlands or in Curaçao, Isla emissions are a tragedy. Last week, the Juan Pablo Duarte School had to close the doors again. Teachers and children went home sick because that refinery, the Isla, spits out poisonous smoke. They weren't allowed to talk to the press about it. Last year this Chamber gave its opinion on this matter. The lack of enforcement is inadequate governance, I say to the Minister. Keeping it up is a violation of human rights. It is now a year later and the minister is still on his hands. What's the Minister gonna do? The Curaçao government is now negotiating with a Chinese party on modernising the Isla after 2019. Is the Minister on top of that? Does he support Curaçao to make agreements on a clean and financially sound refinery? If we are not careful, in a number of years we will have not just one but two polluting refineries. The green Aruba has decided to make a deal with a subsidiary of the Venezuelan PDVSA. In order to keep that refinery clean a little bit, there must be an expensive pipeline, but does the Minister have a keen mind that the PDVSA wants to tell its financial problems on the subsidiary through a dubious construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u19	Perhaps it would be useful if Mr Pechtold were to give us some clarity. Something must obviously be done and the cabinet must do so, but I would like to hear from D66 what it would like. Mr Pechtold says he's afraid of two dirty refineries. Should the government now intervene on Aruba and say: that refinery will not open? Should the cabinet now intervene in Curaçao and tell the refinery to shut down? Is that the business that needs to be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u20	VVDs are always a bit black and white, but the most important thing is to make sure you get results. With regard to Curaçao, I almost ask the VVD: do you accept that children should leave school sick because there is such an enormous pollution? If we say no to this together, I think that our expertise, our opportunities and our knowledge should ensure that after all these years the beginning of a solution finally comes. All I find out is that it doesn't happen all the time. As far as Aruba is concerned, we have now received a letter from the Minister, but they have been here. There have been three meetings with the cabinet: the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister. I note that it has not been said once in this whole process: of course we understand that you do not want to have a mono-economy of only tourism, but is it wise to go back in time and put such a polluting refinery there and can we not think together how else? I'm finding that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u21	I note that this is a bit arrogant of the Hague administration. There have just been elections on Curaçao. People have therefore been able to express their views on this issue. Parties have been chosen. That is very democratic; perhaps D66 feels differently, but people have all made their choices. Of course, D66 and the VVD are concerned about emissions from the Isla refinery, but you can also ask about employment. Is there enough employment in Curaçao? Should we do something with that, too, or is it rather selective of D66? What choice does D66 make concrete? What really needs to be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u22	Any choice is better than the minister you have supported and who has been sitting on his hands for four years now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u23	Nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u24	The latter could not be understood, because you did not press the button of the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u25	Mr Bosman supported me because he said "nothing." That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u26	Now let's finish the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u27	My question was to Mr Pechtold. So Mr. Pechtold doesn't say anything. He doesn't want anything. He says this goes to the cabinet. D66 doesn't know, makes no choice and has no idea what it wants, but calls everything to the cabinet. Mr Pechtold says that the cabinet is on his hands, but when D66 is asked what should happen, it turns out that these are selective choices of D66. Apparently, D66 wants to say something about the refinery's emissions, but not about employment or about other things that go wrong, i.e. about crime or all the other concerns that exist. You think we should take over? D66 doesn't make a choice; it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u28	I'm just getting started. I've got six left in front of me. We have supported a motion from your own coalition colleague, the PvdA, to say that something must be done. Ask, together with your coalition colleague, why don't you ask the cabinet what happened after that year? If it's up to me, we're gonna take down that refinery. That means you're gonna make her cleaner. There are techniques for that. You're certainly not gonna start a second one if you're not sure that's financial and geopolitical. That's our job. Foreign administration is a matter of the Kingdom. The cabinet gets out of that every time, but that's a kingdom matter. That is what I have said in general terms about Venezuela. If a country such as Venezuela, a neighbouring country at a distance from these islands, tries to tighten up the relations within the islands and makes constructions in which I have my doubts and if the Aruban Parliament has a week to form its opinion on this matter, I wonder what the Minister, when that delegation was there, did to ensure that this would continue in a decent manner, if it were to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u29	In the end, you have to come to a choice: what do we want with these islands? D66 takes out very small cubes each time and makes a very big point of it, but eventually there is no choice. Everyone's being accused of "you've got to do something," but what does D66 want with those islands? Apparently, it's very selective. When Venezuela is involved, it is a matter of Kingdom relations, but sometimes, according to D66, these are local issues, such as crime and employment. According to D66, we don't have to interfere. How selective is D66 in the actual execution of what it wants? Is it general now, or is it selective?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u30	I have a whole laundry list of what else I want, but who's here, The Hague? That's the VVD: "What does D66 want with the islands?" Like it's some kind of folk garden you can decide on at your own discretion. There are issues we have dealt with in the Statute at the Kingdom level, for example foreign affairs. That is why there is no defence there and we have such tasks. We do this together; before that we have a National Council of Ministers, which is a stone's throw away here. That is where Venezuela's influence should be discussed much more clearly as far as I am concerned. When it comes to refineries, when it comes to a country that is falling apart, Venezuela, if it is a refinery that has money problems and if it is unclear I will get there in a moment about how the deal is going to be, then there is not only a task for our parliament but for us as a Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u31	There is an issue that touches the core of the tight ties of our Kingdom. The Netherlands is responsible for good governance and sound finances on the islands, but has little resources to make that happen. We saw it with the Isla refinery. That's a tragedy. Such a refinery should not exist in our kingdom. The SP has been working since about the year 2000 to get that thing clean and cleaned up, but it doesn't work because the board of Curaçao doesn't want it. Now there is a similar situation in Aruba, where for little money a refinery is given to the government, with all the pollution it causes. And there will be a financial construction that, as we all know, is inadequate. It'll lead to a lot of pollution, old shit and a lot of debt. What are we supposed to do now, D66? Should we intervene or should we not intervene? In other words, should we undo that deal? If so, how could we do so within the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u32	I can tell you that I also owe a further answer to Mr Bosman. There are two refineries. One of them is a disaster from the past. It will be transferred to Chinese hands in 2019. It goes to Guangdong Zhenrong Energy and then something complicated. That is something that needs to be negotiated. Let's make sure we get there... look, it's creating a little proportion. That's what I'm talking about: either the elephant through the porcelain cabinet or sit on your hands. The cabinet that is now in danger of arriving at Curaçao consists of a few parties that are so oriented towards the Netherlands that you can do business with it. If that happens, you're gonna prepare it now, aren't you? Then you have until 2019, so plenty of time, to make sure that at least one step towards a cleaner process is taken. As far as Aruba is concerned, which I will mention later in my text, I think we have missed a chance. I think that an island that has a green image should ask itself whether it wants this. But I understand the problem. If you have a mono-economy of tourism alone and you can create 2,000 or 3,000 jobs with something that's already there, then you can turn it into old scrap metal or say you can do something with it. It's also one thing that specializes in Venezuelan oil. That's special oil; you can't process it all over the world. So I get it all. But then make sure it's done right at once. And make sure that the democratic process is going well. That's what we're all saying as a supervisor. I accuse Eman and the others of nothing, but I do ask: what happened in the meantime, when we apparently still had the chance to do something? Did you know they were at the Tower? Did you know they were in the ministries? Did we ever hear what happened there? No. Should we ask about that now and are we looking at the oil afterwards? Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u33	I very much agree with that. We're gonna have to figure out how to get the Isla refinery clean or closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u34	One moment. We also have a public gallery and all kinds of people following us elsewhere. You're talking about the refinery in Curaçao, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u35	Exactly, yeah. We also have a responsibility. This shows exactly the problem. We have a responsibility within the Kingdom, but all we can do is try to engage in good consultation with governments. However, these governments have not so far given home. The situation in Aruba is exactly the same. What can we do? That's the big problem. We have a responsibility. Financially, it's gonna be completely out of control. We know that this polluted soil will threaten the population and will not be disposed of. That refinery's gonna serve for a few more years. And then what? Then we have a big financial problem, a big pollution...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u36	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u37	...and no employment. And then what can we...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u38	One at a time!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u39	...in the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u40	One at a time. First, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u41	What can we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u42	Yeah, he said that three times. So I thought, "I think the question is what we can do."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u43	If you make your own contribution, I'll put it in front of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u44	My hands are itching. I would prefer that we think along in good proportions and that we do not have to threaten, that we do not have to do anything. But when one asks here from left to right what we can do, I actually hear Mr Van Raak asking that question out loud to himself too. Of course, one can gradually map out the escalation ladder, which is indeed there. You can also discuss with governments: boys, you accept that children leave school sickly, but we don't think that's a standard; you ask us to uphold the standard in the Kingdom, and we ask you to. I will be on the BES Islands in a moment in this context. It is absolutely my preference to do it the right way, but we also know that there can be an escalation ladder. Let us jointly ask the Minister how he looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u45	With regard to the Isla refinery on Curaçao, D66 and the Labour Party are on the same side. However, I wonder whether Mr Pechtold will not fail himself if he says nothing is happening. Since the motion was tabled, which was only seven months ago, we have been going through the process that Mr Pechtold wants. A call for tenders was made with Curaçao. An agency has been hired to monitor the entire refinery, the power plant and Aqualectra. There's a report coming out, and then something really ought to happen. That takes a while, and I agree with Mr Pechtold that every day is too much, but I can say that at least no one is on his hands anymore. Isn't that the point where we can look at each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u46	Of course. We're under the motion together. The differences between Mr Van Laar and I are much smaller on this point than with Mr Bosman. I would have preferred Mr Van Laar's coalition partner to be concerned about that too. I agree with Mr Van Laar, but his role in understanding the people at home is also to defend the minister and my role is to rush the minister a bit. When I read in such a message that a school is closed because the smoke flies around the children and the teachers, I think: if it had happened in Pernis, the world would have been too small. And we're standing here with six, seven specialists getting us all excited again, but nobody's doing anything about it. Mr Van Laar and I are looking at the same thing. He says the Minister is already doing a lot. I say the Minister can do a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u47	We're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u48	Your next six sheets, Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u49	I think we've had the point of the PDVSA. I'd like to hear more from the Minister about how he looks at that escalation ladder. These weeks there were elections on St.Maarten and on Curaçao. About Curaçao we were shocked by an article in De Telegraaf, which said that there would have been influence during the previous elections. A democracy cannot be without free, independent elections. This suggestion alone is harmful. Let us agree with the islands on political observers from abroad. I don't care if they're from Monaco, because the VVD wants to; we'll soon agree on that. In order to work better together, it is also important that we be able to resolve our conflicts better. For that, we need a dispute settlement. When will it be in the room? I'm coming to Caribbean Netherlands. The islands of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba are covered by different ministers. They often fall between shore and ship. It's neither meat nor fish. The evaluation of 10-10-10 showed that there was no common vision and a common approach. The islands depended on a single official, who also thinks about them for a while. That creates conflict and arbitrariness. The minister looked at it and stood there, or the other way around, of course. Did he even take on a strong lead? What do structural agreements between him and the trade ministries actually look like? Single mothers with two jobs, elderly people who cannot live off their pensions and children who go to school without food: it is still the order of the day in the Caribbean Netherlands. It seems as if Asscher and Klijnsma have been sleeping lately, because that ministry has left everything to bed. What's the result? Poverty and unemployment dominate. For those few thousand people, we have to be able to get a civilized benefit. However, we still do not have a social minimum... Mr President, I had made a note: 'the VVD jumps up'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u50	I saw Mr Bosman walking very slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u51	I regret that D66 does not jump up because we cannot get jobs for those people, because there is no employment and because we are not committed to economic development. In my opinion, the best form of income is not a benefit but a job. How does Mr Pechtold see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u52	I was talking about pensioners, I was talking about welfare mothers with two children, and I was talking about kids going to school. We don't get a job for that. Furthermore, I fully agree with the VVD that the economy on those islands needs to go up. We have to settle that, too, but a social minimum, which we talk about time and again, I find a form of civilization in our kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u53	The problem of this minimum social standard is about what people have to spend and how does this disposable income arise? We have been there several times, probably Mr Pechtold, and we can see that people are importing and that there is very little development in agriculture and fisheries. There are all possibilities. It offers jobs and cheap food. I believe that these are solutions for the island, and I do not hear very much about them. Or have I been too early for Mr. Pechtold?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u54	No, and let's not make the contradictions bigger than necessary. Of course, I'd love that. I have been there twenty times; I see that there is development and that people are trying things. But it has to be equal and equal. There are such opportunities. TNO went to Aruba. Nice. Nice. What can we do with Wageningen University? I live there myself. What can we do there in the field of agriculture? [[Sentence could not be parsed: En zullen we de staatssecretaris die erover gaat eens vragen om ze daar eens een beetje te gaan helpen?]] We use our farming techniques all over the world, but here, where we can damn well make the difference for people in our own kingdom, we're left behind. I agree with Mr Bosman that the directors have a role to play there, but what the hell is the day-to-day administration of such an island? Three men? And a board of five, if you're talking about Saba? Or take Bonaire, with eight politicians for an entire island. And we're sitting here with 150 and a whole cabinet full of thousands of officials. I'm talking about those little things. We can stare at each other for another ten years or we can take a step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u55	The great thing is that Mr Pechtold calls Saba. That's where it's going pretty well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u56	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u57	There the developments are quite good, and there is a small board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u59	But the important thing is that we put those drivers into their power. So it's not about big projects. It's not about the University of Wageningen intervening in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u60	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u61	The point is that the drivers put the spa in the ground locally. That's the point. We are losing out on this, I probably agree with Mr Pechtold in a lot of administrative consultations and administrative investigations and all kinds of reports and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u62	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u63	It's time for a spa in the ground, but it has to be there. That's what the drivers over there have to do. They must say: we have that ambition. That's where it has to be. So we must be careful not to put down from our side some patronizing or mothering things that the drivers think differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u64	And we are once again. But we're talking about a refinery here as politicians, and we've been doing it for 10 years. What am I saying? That thing's been going on for 50 years. The people must not be the victims of politicians who do not act together, whether they are there or here. That goes for the same thing here. I'd better get on with my argument. The price increases caused by imports and market power are not helping either. Groente in a supermarket on Bonaire is almost as expensive as in the Netherlands. I understand the difficulty of having a separate competition authority, but can the ACM in the Netherlands get a division for these islands? And can the Minister say when he will say more about our requests for a court store for accessible law and the funding of an Ombudsman? Progress has been made in health care. But I was surprised that in the Caribbean Netherlands there is still an insane law in force. That stigmatizing term for people with mental illness, can't we just leave it behind? As far as I'm concerned, it's not just about naming. I am also really concerned about the rights of the people who are being imprisoned there. I fully understand the legislative reservations, but can the Minister look at this with his fellow health department? Fortunately, education is also progressing. But many schools still perform severely insufficiently. I read in the UNICEF report on children's rights that children can still receive corporal punishment at school and at home. This contrasts with our attention to children's rights. How is this included in the Children's Rights Action Plan? The islands are rich in sun, wind and water. Renewable energy has the future here. Let me give you an example. Bluerise wants to generate energy on Saba from the difference between cold and hot ocean water. A nice side effect is that it also immediately produces drinking water, something that is often lacking on Saba. Is the Minister prepared to help such projects further? And can he and his colleague from Economic Affairs also ensure that Caribbean Netherlands gets access to Dutch renewable energy schemes? We want to prevent climate change, but we also need to prepare ourselves for the consequences. In the European Netherlands this means increasing the dikes, but in the Caribbean Netherlands that means hurricane-resistant. The islands are already used to storms. Hurricane Matthew is raging along them, but warmer sea water and a higher sea level can increase the hurricanes. Is the Minister prepared to examine with the islands what is needed for climate resilience? Finally. After almost four years of Rutte II cabinet, I see too little difference. The symbolism is still one of stereotypes and distribution. The Isla refinery is still polluting equally hard and in the Caribbean Netherlands poverty remains dominant. We need to support each other more, and we need to see the benefits of each other. The Prime Minister now went on a trade mission to South Korea, but I suggest he go on a trade mission to the islands next time to support them in trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u65	Mr. Chairman. I thought I had asked for five minutes, but I will leave that for now. Let me begin by warmly congratulating Mr Amhaouch. From this place: heartfelt! I can see from his eyes that he's a little surprised by the fact that he's wondering if it's his birthday today, but I don't know if it's his birthday. It's CDA's birthday. Today, the CDA is 36 years old. The Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the new constitutional structure of the Kingdom, has not yet reached this stage. This new structure has been in existence for six years; it has already been remembered. Year in, year out you look forward to progress in the development of relations within the Kingdom. How's it looking? In short, there is mainly disappointment on the Caribbean. That feeling of disappointment has kept getting to me in recent years. There is so little progress in the relationship with the Netherlands and in the development of the Caribbean. There is also incomprehension at the Caribbean for the relationship with the Netherlands. The standard of living there has fallen rather than improved, as was hoped. In short, the situation is not rosy. Do we have to think about a new structure right away? No, that's not what the SGP is about. Together we must try to improve the situation. That will have to take place as concretely as possible. However, this requires the full commitment of the other countries of the Kingdom and the other territories of the Netherlands. Earlier, we asked the Minister as a coordinating director for a delta plan for the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. An integral plan for both the fight against poverty and crime and the strengthening of justice and economic development specifically for each of the islands. What is the state of play here? There is a lot going on here and there; the islands are sometimes busy and sometimes things go wrong there. However, I do miss the integrality of the approach. A sort of marshall plan, as we had in Europe and other parts of the world after the Second World War. Such a position could be held by the Netherlands as far as I am concerned. I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on this integrated approach. In January, the Chamber discussed the security situation in Saint Martin in detail. It is clear that there is still much to be gained there. Has progress been made in the meantime in consultation with Saint Martin? Is the necessary sense of urgency in the meantime? Organised crime must be dealt with in a visible and recognisable manner. Good police and prisons are essential. According to his letter of 23 May last, the Minister is satisfied with the conference on this subject. At least that is something, but the question is whether concrete results are now visible. Has there really been any improvement in the situation a little more than a year later? Good justice is also necessary if we are to look at the region. In concrete terms, I am thinking of the unrest in Venezuela and the effects that this may have in the form of migratory flows towards the Kingdom's parts. We would like to hear from the Minister what this means for, among other things, the Coast Guard budget. Are there sufficient people and resources to deal effectively with these problems? What is actually happening to keep migration policy and asylum legislation in order? What does it mean for the Netherlands if there is indeed a large influx of people from Venezuela or other countries? Even if they are autonomous powers of Aruba and Curaçao, insufficient border surveillance can also cause problems for the Netherlands. Then there are a few comments on finance. Much has already been said about this. There has been an improvement in the management of public finances. Among other things, this is visible on Saba. However, there are also permanent problems at St Eustatius and Bonaire. More generally, the financial situation remains weak. In this respect, there are gradually great concerns about the position of Aruba. The last half-year report also shows that financial management is poor; let us just call it that. There is no question of timely and adequate submission of documents. Can the College Aruba financial supervision actually do the job well? I ask the Minister whether this financial structure is sufficient. What exactly does the Minister see as his coordinating role in this area? Finally. The new relationships within the Kingdom may in some sense still be in place, but you expect some growth towards responsible independence. I have to say that, in that respect, the concerns are getting worse rather than worse. I fear that the Minister shares that feeling, so that we can at least carry it together, but I would like to hear it from him himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u66	I assume you mean that the concerns increase rather than decrease. You said it the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u67	You have said that again, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-20.u68	The Minister will reply in the afternoon on Thursday and the debate will then be concluded.
