ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u1	I would like to welcome members Van Toorenburg, Van Gerven, Elias, Mei Li Vos and Bergkamp to Vak-K. I know from the committee of inquiry which I have been a member of and which has been investigating the banks, how special it is to be able to sit there and listen to what your colleagues say about your survey report and then to be able to defend that report. These members are and are supported in their work by members of the Chamber. Some of those employees have taken their seats behind them. I would also like to welcome those employees and collaborators. Today, the Chamber will debate the committee. On Thursday, the committee will answer the questions put by the Chamber. The debate with the government will take place at a later date, as is customary with reports from committees of inquiry. I now give the floor to colleagues in the Chamber. I do not limit the number of interruptions, because Members must be able to interrupt each other. However, as we know, I always appreciate sharp interruptions and some restraint.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to welcome colleagues in section K. The idea was so beautiful: fast, quiet and easy by train from Amsterdam to Antwerp or from Breda to Brussels, but it became the failed Fyra. For twelve years we drove each other further and further into the trap. After numerous cost overruns in the construction of the HSL-South, it also turned out to be a gloomy mission to have a train run over that expensive track. The train equipment, the V250... later known as the Fyra.. was only in service for a few weeks when literally pieces flew off. At the end of May 2013, the NS decided to take the train off the Dutch track forever. In the end, that was the sad end of an innumerable series of delays, deadlocks and cost overruns, in which everyone pointed to everyone, but the traveller and the taxpayer were ultimately empty-handed. That is why, together with the CDA, D66 took the initiative of a parliamentary inquiry to bring out the bottom line, but also to prevent this kind of huge financial failure in the future. In its report, the Committee has clearly reflected both the different interests and the different responsibilities: of the NS, of the successive directors of the Ministry of Finance, of the directors of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment, of the Inspectorate for Environment and Transport, of the train builder AnaldoBreda, of the Belgian Government and of the Belgian railways. The report makes it clear that in that jousting around the Fyra a lot of interests have been taken care of, but not that of the traveller. The traveller was in the cold, so the title of the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry is justified. D66 is very grateful to the committee. She really did a lot of work. The Committee has been able to draw some very clear conclusions from the tangles of information and interests. We appreciate the hard work done by colleagues, but also by the supporters of this committee. I now come to the content of the report. For D66, the most important conclusion is that we should try to get more out of it for the traveller. That won't be easy, but we have to try. Because what exactly did the traveler get? Not the fine, flexible, fast connection that was promised, but an expensive Thalys, an Intercity direct that falls out every o'clock and a terrifyingly slow Benelux train, which sometimes makes even the bus turn out to be faster and cheaper. That should not ultimately be the outcome of all the billions we have put into this project. As far as D66 is concerned, the Dutch Government prefers to work today rather than tomorrow to see how there is more to be gained. I ask the committee what scope it has seen or sees to strengthen and expand the existing supply. Is this possible within the existing agreements or should new agreements be concluded? What can and must the Dutch Government do to better serve the traveller? I've been talking about choices and interests for a while. The interests of travelers were never paramount, but other interests were all the more important. It was a disenchanting picture in the interviews, and I think some colleagues will agree that: the former NS top man who admitted that the NS could simply make an unrealistic offer because the money came out of Father's pockets on the left or right and also said that the government would never drop the NS because there was no alternative. That was quite a position for the NS and she used it generously. We got further and further into the trap, in which was optimized especially in the short term and the final picture, namely the best offer for the traveler, never really centered. I come to the agreements with and the interests of the Belgians. For 10 years there was no agreement: not on the timetable, not on the financing, not even on the number of trains. The discussion on the Fyra connection between Breda and Antwerp at the end of 2012 was characteristic. Whatever Minister Schultz tried to do, letters, phone calls, send the Prime Minister all requests were ignored. The minister literally said in the Chamber: the phone just isn't being answered. I ask the committee: why was the relationship with the Belgians so bad? Where did it go wrong? Does the committee have any ideas on how we could better deal with this in another international project? It goes without saying that a large, complex project involving different authorities, organisations and companies also has different interests. That is normal, but then it is essential to set very clear goals beforehand about what you want to achieve and how you think you can get there and then get a firm signature from those involved. However, the committee's report shows that the objectives were not very concrete. A high-speed line was built, but it was not yet clear which timetable would be followed. It also shows that after the agreements were concluded, the conflict of interest continued. How is that possible? This led to choices that turned out to be disastrous. I therefore have the following questions to the committee. How can we prevent this in the future? How can you ensure that a long-term project is conducted in a political and technical complex playing field? The next project is already underway. I'll get back to the traveler. How can the interests of the traveller be strengthened? The traveller himself is not sitting at the table at the moment. How can we get him on the playing field? Do the NS and the Ministry have enough insight into the interests of the traveller? I look forward to hearing the views of the committee on this matter. I go on to the role of the Inspection Environment and Transport (ILT). So we have the Inspection Environment and Transport. However, a train from which the pieces broke down or went out and in which under seats a fire could break out, was allowed on the Dutch track. That's really amazing! How did those trains even drive through when there were parts already next to the track? How can it be that despite the fact that deficiencies had already been identified in Italy, the trains were taken by the NS and brought to the Netherlands? It is clear from the report that the ILT has lost a lot of weight, partly due to a minimalist approach to the task. The ILT may be more, but it did the minimum. Part of that was also in errors in the structure of supervision. There is "confidence unless" at the inspection. The result was that it became very difficult to find out if there was actually a problem. Does the committee have any idea how the ILT can gain more control over these kinds of processes? Does the committee also have an idea of what caused this minimal sense of task and how it can be changed? In essence, the Committee also advocates a change in the attitude of the ILT: it needs to be more critical. But nothing is as difficult as a culture and behavior change in an organization. How does the committee see that? Should this only be done within the ILT, or does the Minister ultimately have a role to play in this? Then I come to the inspection body that has inspected the trains. There's something really crazy going on. We also talked about that with the Volkswagen gate. Those inspection bodies shall work for the manufacturer; the manufacturer may choose his or her own inspection body. Therefore, inspection bodies benefit from a good understanding with the manufacturer. Doesn't the committee think that's the wrong incentive? The committee calls for greater supervision of the inspection bodies, but is it not also necessary to change the structure of the inspection process? How could this be different, so that there are better safeguards? In fact, the customer should choose the inspection body, because then you completely reverse the incentive. I come to an important and difficult point in this debate: the provision of information to the Chamber. The chapter on the provision of information by the cabinet is not easy. It is about deception, withholding information, creating a rosy image, and the fact that the Chamber was often put before a fulfilled fact. That's why Secretary of State Mansveld left at the end of October. She said at her farewell that a ruler is not only responsible for what he decides, but also for what he finds. That's right. Let me once again thank Secretary of State Mansveld for all the work she has done in the field of rail. The committee report states that successive ministers and secretaries of state did not show the Chamber the full picture: Netelenbos and Eurlings, but neither Schultz and Dijsselbloem. The report also states that the Chamber should be more critical: it should ask through if all the information is not clear. It is also crucial that directors provide good and fair information and that the figures are not more rosy than they are. How can we ensure that information on projects of this kind becomes more realistic without it becoming of a level of detail which makes it no longer possible for the Chamber to exercise proper control over them? Does the committee have any ideas on concrete ways of helping, forcing or encouraging directors to give the complete picture? Let me ask the committee in all the variants. In short, what can we do more than we already do? The Committee also discusses the difficult position of the Cabinet and the Chamber when negotiations are under way. From the negotiators' point of view, it is difficult to keep the Chamber at every step. It's hard to negotiate in public. On the other hand, every time there is an agreement, the Chamber is faced with a fact. Does the committee have any specific suggestions as to how the Court could be better informed during negotiations? Finally, I would like to say that my group has been somewhat surprised that a very important player in this dossier has not been publicly heard by the committee, namely Mr Dijsselbloem, Minister of Finance and thus shareholder of the NS, but also manager of the treasury. Can the committee state why it has been chosen not to hear such a crucial player in public as some other directors have been heard in public? As far as ERTMS is concerned, part of the project's delay is due to a lack of clarity about ERTMS, the security system of our rail system. The Committee also concludes that ERTMS is given a greater role as a cause of delay in imaging than it might have had. It shows that it is important to clarify this project, a large and expensive project, in the future. For this we still have a long way to go, also towards the procurement after 2024. Let me make a bridge to the lessons for the future. For D66, the first priority in handling this report is a better offer for the traveller. However, the committee's recommendation to present the various options for the next concession as soon as possible, by 2018 at the latest, is also a recommendation that my group fully shares. I would like to ask the committee what steps the cabinet should take and when it should do so. As far as D66 is concerned, high-speed transport is also open to other market players if they have a better offer for the traveller, as this must be the priority. So break up the concessions for main rail network and HSL. That does not mean that the NS can no longer participate, but would it be a way that fits in with the committee's recommendation? The recommendation to remain consistent and to make clear agreements is also in our ears. Let us try not to go into a trap like this again and to water the wine every step of the way, and the traveller will suffer. Set a clear target. Make clear appointments. Carry out tenders carefully. Take your time to test. Do not put under steam and boiling water an insufficiently tested train on the track, especially in winter. Always get a plan B. I found this crystal clear recommendation from the report to be a very important one. We had to get on with the Fyra at some point because there was no plan B. It really surprised me that in March the NS decided to take a train in December that they didn't have in March. Unbelievable. There was no alternative to the NS. There was no alternative to AnsaldoBreda. There was no alternative to the Fyra. The Fyra has now become the symbol of failing, billions of devouring government projects. If a project threatens to fail, it is now called "the next Fyra." Let's not be proud of that. The JSF is now called, for example, the flying Fyra. Today we've heard that it's gonna be half a billion more expensive. It is therefore our responsibility to ensure that we learn the lessons of the committee's report and take the recommendations to heart, so that we may be able to prevent the next Fyra and the traveller from getting a better offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u3	Has the committee's report also led to any introspection at D66? For the tender itself there are of course the Purple years in which D66 played a major role. If you became active at D66 at that time, you had to at least public tender your mother-in-law before you could get any significant role within the party. Now I also hear very clearly several sneaks in the direction of the NS. Looking back on those years, you must also see that liberalisation has gone a long way. D66 was then a great advocate of that ideology. Is that still the case after reading this report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u4	I understand very well that the SP would like to read that in the report. I see a lot of mistakes have been made in the whole process. Mistakes have also been made in the procurement procedure. For example, I'm looking at the tail of the process. The alternative offer only looked at the NS. The committee concludes that it was not a full alternative. Sometimes the failure of other parties was the fault of this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u5	Mrs Van Veldhoven has also argued on several occasions that we should look closely at the traveller. If I read the report and add the history to it, then there has been a period when it was really only about money and not about the traveller. Does Mrs Van Veldhoven agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u6	One of the conclusions that led to the main conclusion of the report is that there have been all kinds of different interests than the passenger's interest. I certainly share that with Mr Smaling. The financial proceeds of an invitation to tender have been chosen. That should never have come first. There was also a monopolist, someone who did not want or tolerate competition, who made such a high bid to maintain his monopoly position. This also shows that this did not deliver the best for the traveller. So I understand that there are many questions to ask in this process, but they do not lead me to the same conclusion as Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u7	I call Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks. So we are doing interruptions in two stages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u8	Mr. Chairman. The parliamentary survey is the Court's most serious investigative tool. Heavy, also for the participating parliamentarians and their support staff. GroenLinks therefore thanks the members for their enormous efforts to gain insight into this headache dossier. The political prize has now been paid: Secretary of State Mansveld has resigned. I would also like to thank her once again for her commitment, including on the train file. But it doesn't stop wringing. This report makes it clear that her predecessors have lost a great deal of weight. In fact, Mrs Mansveld had been ranked out on this dossier years before she took office. It raises the question of whether her own minister should not have done more to get out of the administrative impasse. GroenLinks always advocates the ideal of fast and international train connections. Because the train, and that was also the original design of the Fyra, is an alternative to short flights and thus makes a substantial contribution to the sustainability of mobility. But then, of course, these trains will have to run, otherwise no dog will choose the train. The Fyra has so considered done more harm than good. As Mrs Van Veldhoven said, unfortunately it has now become a synonym for what can go wrong rather than a nice attractive example and a path on which we want to go further, including as regards connections with Germany. The main conclusion of the Van Toorenburg Committee leaves nothing to the imagination. The Fyra failed because passenger transport was of minor importance. The traveler wasn't on one, two and three. The state wanted to cash in and the NS was focused on its strategic position on the track. The result was that the interests of rail passengers were damaged and the taxpayer was responsible for a billion-dollar investment. The successor of the Fyra, the Intercity direct, is also doing badly. Train traveller.nl has directly declared the Intercity to be the worst performing train of 2015. While elsewhere on track 1 out of 50 trains fail, the high-speed connection between Amsterdam and Rotterdam misses 1 out of 7 trains. It is also no fun to take the Benelux train, but I am sure that we will discuss this with Secretary of State Dijksma. GroenLinks now wants to ask the committee some questions. The heavy work it has done gives us a great deal of insight and information with which we can handle the debate with the government, but we still have a few questions. The Eerste Kamer investigated Dutch privatisation processes a few years ago, including those of the NS. GroenLinks's key question is about that. Can you do it this way, because this is a hybrid construction with a 100% shareholding? Is it possible for the Chamber to monitor and manage such a large route? Is it possible to mix parliamentary democracy and the controlling function with such a large market operation? The Senate stated that Parliament is not at all equipped to critically review the complex decision-making processes resulting from privatisation and independence of this scale and to correct the government in good time. Then you get the effect that parliament is chasing after the facts. I would like to hear more about that from the committee. Is the trial okay? Are you sure you can do an operation like this? Has there just been an accumulation of human error or are those two processes actually wringing? What exactly does the committee think of market forces? The track has been privatized at a time when the belief in the feasibility of society disappeared, but confidence in the functioning of the market grew as a solution to everything. How does this relate to the ultimate efforts to allow KLM and NS to win the tender? Wasn't that the recipe for the train crash in slow motion that unfortunately we were allowed to observe? In 2011, media reports were published that large risks were deliberately taken with the high-speed line. Back then, NS-topman Hans Huisinga decided to significantly increase the tender bid to cut off foreign competition. In the Ministry, where they wanted this market operation, everyone knew that NS could never keep that bid. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the Committee is quite right to say that this led to the situation that NS could not realize the transport and that the Ministry was staring blindly at high concession fees. How can the Chamber, the controlling organ, prevent such a pliers construction? Is the Chamber capable of doing so at all with the democratic processes it has? That is actually GroenLinks' main question as a result of this report. What struck me further is the underexposed role of KLM. NS and KLM first moved on together, but at some point, when the success was somewhat lacking, KLM manoeuvred backwards. How'd that go? How exactly are we supposed to explain that? Because it wasn't the NS who did this, it was a newly founded consortium. The report indeed creates a terrifying picture of the Inspection Environment and Transport. In short, the inspection was not so close to the approval of the Fyra on the Dutch track. We also see the same movement of paper inspections, inspection holidays and inspections based only on certificates in other areas. The Committee states that supervision was based on far too much trust and that the inspection should be carried out on inspection bodies paid by the manufacturer. How does the committee envisage the desired monitoring? I would also ask this in the light of the fact that cabinet and chamber are increasingly difficult to influence these certification systems. How can we ensure that in any case the authorisation of admission on the Dutch track meets the legal requirements in practice and that the person in charge can use his or her influence to the full? In short, I would like to hear a little more explanation of how we could do that. I come to the information position of the House of Representatives. That's what it says very clearly. Mrs Van Veldhoven already said: 'deception', 'completed facts', 'too rosy proposed reality', 'deprecated information'. What is the concrete advice in such a complicated process, so that the House of Representatives can keep its finger on the pulse? As a closing point, I would like to look at our own role. That's a hand in your own bosom. In the piece of history that I have experienced myself and what I have read about before, you see incredible swinging movements that cannot be followed by any company. That is why I come back to the position of the Green Left, which, in the case of a monopoly system such as rail, is in fact impossible to shape in terms of market forces. It is very derailed here, but that is not only due to human failure. In fact, we are also faced with an impossible task of trying to combine parliamentary democracy with our control and control capabilities with a vision that we have of market forces. My colleagues know this picture and we will undoubtedly continue to debate it with the ruler. Once again, I would like to thank you so much for exposing this so clearly. It's our strongest weapon. That is what we have rightly and fully deployed here. My thanks also go specifically to the eminent chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u9	Mr. Chairman. In taking note of the committee's work, you can only praise the effort to carry out its difficult task with the utmost completeness and impartiality. That's how the compliments sounded in 1883. This was the result of the parliamentary survey on rail in the Netherlands. It took place from 1881 to 1882, for two years. On behalf of the PvdA, I would like to thank and congratulate this committee today. Thank you very much for your commitment and for the report that has been produced. This also applies, of course, to the support that has made your work possible. Today I'd like to go back in time. I will then put to the committee a number of questions on the analysis and recommendations, on the four crucial moments in the Fyra dossier and on the role of the parties involved. First of all, I'm going back in time. I want to take you to 1890. After the aforementioned survey, which thus took place eight years earlier, the First Chamber adopts a law. It regulates the reduction of the number of railway companies. The aim of that law was to allow two parties of equal strength to compete with each other in order to improve the quality of rail. 50 years later, the editor-in-chief of Spoor-and-Spoor-and-Spoor is writing "I think it no longer exists "that the law caused a period of misery. The law constituted two principles which contradicted one another: competition and concentration, the foundation of railway policy. That was a recipe for misery that would drag on for years to come, he noted. Today it is 19 January 2016 and again the House of Representatives is talking to a committee of inquiry about a period of misery that will last for a number of years. If a committee of inquiry is set up in 135 years' time and someone asks for the reports of the previous investigations, then there is a parallel. Then I come to the analysis and recommendations. Financial interests have been central to the Fyra file since the beginning. The traveler had it checked out. The cabinet was divided and went for financial gain. The NS wanted to maintain its dominant position. The Italian train builder was not able to build proper trains and the inspection was not even able to control them. And the room barked, but never bit. The seed of ten years of struggle between the State and High Speed Alliance was laid, when it was decided to use the high-speed line transport through a public bid. It was the time of more market, New Public Management and the market, unless... Cabinet demands were aimed at maximizing profits and earning back the construction of the line. In addition, the prevailing idea was that the public business was served by more market forces. Other than that, the NS had to win. So was public and political opinion: contracting is good, as long as the NS wins. Appointments with the Belgians were not enforceable. With the back against the wall, the cabinet negotiated an agreement at the very last minute. If it appears that the HSA is on the verge of bankruptcy, it is decided to add high-speed rail transport to the main network of NS. The State writes down a billion euros and accepts a austerity of transport. After all, the alternative is even worse. This very brief analysis leads to recommendations that the PvdA agrees with. They follow for the most part logically from the analysis that has been made. However, we note that the recommendations are of a very general nature. In addition, the Committee fails to make recommendations on the positioning of the NS vis-à-vis the State. The committee is satisfied with a recommendation in which it calls for an explicit choice, but it does not exclude continuing in the various scenarios on the current road, with a hybrid ratio, either. No, it was not the commission's job to come up with a positioning proposal, but the Chamber asked the committee to draw lessons for the future, on the relationship between the State as a policy-maker and as a shareholder of the State participation NS. On both points, the Committee of Inquiry recommends further investigation. The PvdA Group wants to know why from the committee. Why does the Committee mention four scenarios, when it immediately finds that the possible intermediate forms of these scenarios should also be examined? Is there a desire to investigate all conceivable scenarios? I'd like a response. Research on the structure of the Dutch track has often been carried out in recent years. The Long Term Track Agenda, the Senate Committee led by Mr Kuiper, the Better and More Programme. What does the committee expect of additional research? To what extent does it share the analysis that it is ultimately the Chamber which, perhaps by a narrow majority, will have to make a decision on the future structure of the railways, as in 1890, as in the case of the Netherlands? What should the Court look after, be prepared for and take into account in this decision? Can the committee outline terms and conditions? Then I come to the five important moments. I took the liberty of adding one. In its report, the Committee identifies four additional important moments for transport across the HSL-South. First of all, that is the decision to build the HSL-South. This will be taken in 1996, without any clear indication of exactly what train services should be provided. Second, in 2001 the State concluded with NS and KLM the concession contract for the transport of HSL-South. Third, the NS decided in March 2012 to start the international service with the Fyra in December 2012. The NS doesn't hold back options. The fourth moment appointed by the Committee is that the Cabinet and the House of Representatives agree to the alternative transport offer of the NS in 2013. As far as the PvdA is concerned, an important part of the derailment is missing. After all, a complex set of demands made building the Fyra a complicated task. In addition, the specifications for trains were changed during construction. That is why I would like to add a fifth point to the four important moments, to position between the first and second moments. Let me just call it point 2a. The requirements package, the procurement of the equipment and the limited control and control during construction made the Fyra child of the account in a bad marriage between NS and AntalendBreda. At this stage, the Fyra was finally derailed. Why has the committee not decided to make recommendations on this issue or to include it as a crucial moment? If a good choice had been made at the time of the tender, the traveller would not be in the cold, but would be on a reliable train. The period from the procurement of the equipment to the actual execution of a pilot plant or timetable is detailed in the report. This chapter gives an extremely interesting insight into the course of events. Preventing a situation like that between NS and AntalendBreda is an important key to creating a reliable connection. Mistakes were made during the tender of trains. The Italians did not appear on the list of skilled builders who created NS after extensive global research. The requirement for builders to have been the main contractor of a project appears to have been little worth in practice. This requirement only led to the exclusion of an experienced party, already in the initial phase of the tender. In addition, there were doubts within NS about the reality of the bids made by AnsaldoBreda. Despite these signals, which should have ringed alarm bells, the tender went on. Can the committee indicate whether it has considered making recommendations to prevent this happening in the future? In the Committee's view, what should tender look ideally in the future? NS asked for trains that did not cause the speed agreed with the State in the contract. In order to repair this weather, NS asked AntalendBreda to include a faster train in the bid, while it is a mortal shame to ask one party for something that the other was not asked for during a tender. Alstom, the disadvantaged company, then let it go. After all, that company wanted to bring in the simultaneous demand of NS to build the new sprinters. After the deadline of the bids NS changed her order again. At that time, Ansaldo Breda knew that she was the only party left in the race, a large starting position. The price NS had to pay by train was skyrocketing. All the clauses in the contract that penalised the late delivery were in question for the Italians. Now it's clear why. At that time, with the knowledge of that time, NS should have scratched behind the ears. However, marriage is easier than dissolution. There are no indications of fraud, which leaves only one other conclusion open. There was talk of incompetence, amateurism and naivety at the Dutch Railways. A public interest has been neglected by state participation. Has the Committee considered including recommendations for invitations to tender at NS as a result of this procedure, or for the supervision of the shareholder in the course of large calls for tenders? How could these mistakes be avoided in the future, in the Committee's view? Then I come to the parties involved, first of all the Ministry. The predecessor of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment, the Ministry of Transport and Water Management, had the role of concession provider, shareholder and policy maker in the tender for transport on the HSL-Zuid. Since January 2005, NS shares have been managed by the Ministry of Finance. This division of roles has advantages and disadvantages. How does the committee view this separation of roles on the track? Do the various members of the committee, on the basis of their research, prefer a certain distribution? Then I'll come to the inspection. The supervision has been invested in the Inspection Environment and Transport. The certification of trains has been privatised to commercial companies. What are the advantages and disadvantages of returning the certification to the inspection? What preference does the committee have on the basis of its investigation? When certification comes back to the inspection, it seems plausible to say that it can regain knowledge of the rail and rolling stock. Is this assumption correct? And if not, why not? I'm coming to the cabinet. The Committee notes that it is complicated to remove the HSL-South from the current contract with NS. When this contract is over, this could be easier. Public procurement would then be an option. How does the committee view this possibility? Public procurement on the track is the subject of the committee's investigation. To what extent can a public tender serve the interests of the traveller in practice? Are there any dangers in this at the same time? Then we, the House of Commons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u10	I hear Mr Hoogland asking a question to the committee on this point, but what is his current position? We once tabled a motion together calling for the unbundling of these two companies. Is that still the position of the Labour Party? Has the report changed anything about this? Can Mr Hoogland say anything about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u11	At that time it was appropriate to spend the high-speed line separately. Right now, he's in an ongoing contract. So it's hard to get it out now. We have always said: if one line in the Netherlands is suitable for several carriers to drive, it is the HSL. However, this will also depend on the way in which the transport currently linked to domestic transport is organised in the future. If that will remain tied, it will become more difficult again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u12	Of course, different providers have different advantages and disadvantages. One of the advantages the NS can bring in its offer is a possible connection with the main rail network. However, I am pleased to hear that this is still a line on which this is possible in principle for the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u13	Then I'll come to the House of Representatives, so on our own. The committee finds that the House of Representatives barked, but did not bite. Of course, biting is always possible, but the question is: what does it get? Does the committee think that the traveller would benefit from a caustic Lower House? When was the parliament supposed to bite? And how did it benefit the traveller? I also have a more general question. What cases did the committee most marvel at in what it encountered during the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u14	It is right that Mr Hoogland should ask this question about the Chamber itself. It's good to look at ourselves, too. He asks when we could have bite. I would like to propose an answer to that question. On 4 November 2013, a motion was tabled in the Chamber stating that we should not be satisfied with the alternative offered by the Dutch Railways. In that motion, the Chamber was called to check multiple providers. That's when the room could've bite. However, a majority of the Chamber voted against this motion. Would this have been a good time for Mr Hoogland, looking back? Should we have said that we were not going to accept the alternative of the Dutch Railways, which the committee calls unworthy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u15	I ask because there have been more of these kinds of moments. Also in 2012, when adding the high-speed line to the main rail network, there was a time to say that we could better go public contracting. You can see that the interplay between a Chamber that eventually follows and a minister who doesn't look at the options leads to the situation we are in right now. This also applies to 2013. The only difference was that at that time the transport was more in sight than in 2012. However, you always see the same mechanism. The committee also notes that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u16	That's right. There must have been several moments. However, I am taking this moment because the committee itself describes this moment very specifically and comprehensively. It states that the motion to give other parties outside the NS the opportunity to come up with an alternative was tabled, but unfortunately it was voted down. Does the Labour Party, looking back, say that we should have voted differently at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u17	That's a good way to turn off all the moods. The same applies to the CDA in the previous period. It applies to everyone. The important thing is that you find that the Chamber over and over again does not do what it could have done if you read the report. A number of options that were set were not considered. In itself, it is good to reflect on this and to ask the committee, even with this knowledge, how the Chamber can do this better in future. I think that's a good form of reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u18	You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u19	Yeah, I'm gonna lock up. If the report makes one thing clear to the PvdA, it is that financially driven decisions do not necessarily lead to good decisions and that the marketing of problems to private parties does not always lead to good results. In procurement, financial and profit-driven interests are central, rather than passenger interests. The PvdA therefore does not want more, but less to be competed. And the PvdA wants more cooperation. More market forces and further privatisation of the train company cannot be achieved in our view. The railways are a public service and must remain so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u20	As I thought, Mr Smaling is probably coming too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u21	This is a fundamental debate and I also have a fundamental question. What Mr Hoogland just said about the role of the Chamber is interesting. However, in practice, you often notice that the parties forming part of a coalition feel bound by the coalition by fundamental motions on, for example, market operation or procurement. At least as long as I'm here, it's been. Does that limit the power of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u22	In general terms, a coalition agreement restricts the power of the Chamber. After all, you make appointments and sometimes there are things that are less fun. Mr Smaling is probably going to experience all this at another formation. That's a fact of life in politics. However, you must always be prepared to reflect on whether the Chamber plays the role it should play. There is always a delicate balance: on the one hand you go along and sit on the chair of the cabinet and on the other hand you only have the choice to say yes or no. The report also makes it very clear that it is an assignment for the Chamber to look again for that balance sheet. Do we always do that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u23	I fully understand that Mr Hoogland occasionally votes differently than he might want. So is the VVD. A few months ago I saw in Other Tijden a beautiful diptych about Wim Kok, Mr Hoogland probably still known. Looking back on his career, he says that, especially in the second purple period, liberalisation has gone all the way. At that point, Mr Hoogland might have a ringing bell in the sense that, bearing in mind what is now before him, he thinks that the course should be adjusted. Putting the traveller at the centre is, of course, a cliché. We all want that traveler to be at the centre. But hasn't there been a moment for the Highland when he thought, "Come on, we're going off that wrong turn and heading in the right direction?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u24	Mr Smaling has made this point right. That course has been set before. Our election programme therefore states that the railway is a public service. There are also some things about public service concerns. The course of the 1990s, in which the idea was that more market was a good way to secure public services, is fortunately abandoned. We are now saying that certain tasks belong to the government itself. The trail's one of them. In response to the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, we really need to put this into practice. So I share the analysis. When it comes to my introspection, I say that turning point was there a little earlier. It wasn't just this documentary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u25	I hear Mr Hoogland saying two different things. On my question whether there might be more market forces on HSL, as several parties could play a role in this, Mr Hoogland says yes. At the same time, he says no to Mr Smaling's question as to whether there should be more market forces. I think there's some light in there. Perhaps Mr Hoogland would like to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u26	There is also light in that, because you cannot pretend that this can be done with more or less market forces. I also know D66 as a nuanced party. If Mrs Van Veldhoven has listened carefully, and she does, then she also hears my nuance. The trail is a public matter. This does not necessarily mean that all rail services must be carried out by the public authorities themselves. It does mean that you have to be able to steer, that you have to be able to secure things, that you have to watch. Especially where state-owned companies operate, you need to ensure that you are able to steer and control them properly at the time when they make such large tenders as, for example, a Fyra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u27	I fully share this nuanced attitude towards market forces. I am glad that Mr Hoogland actually says that, if you want to have a market, you must have a strong market leader. In this case, this is about the direction you give at that time, for example to a state-owned company that plays a role in this. Mr Hoogland does not say that more market forces are not on the agenda for him. Provided that it is properly controlled, provided that it is in the public interest, he does not rule that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u28	This is where my words "let me say it neatly" are somewhat overplayed. The trail is not a market, Mrs Van Veldhoven. The rail is not a market, so we should not pretend that it is. The fact that there are certain elements of market forces is correct, but the track is a public matter and it must remain so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u29	From the beginning of the misery with purple was Mr Hoogland's party's move, up to and including Mrs Mansveld's departure. But I also refer to shareholder Mr Dijsselbloem. It's a lot of PvdA that's determined this file. We are now on the trail of twelve years of misery, not just with the HSL, but with the whole market organization. You've made a big mess of things. I was just listening to the debate between the SP and D66. We both know what these parties stand for. My party, the PVV, is in favour of nationalization. The PvdA's in between. You're just wiggling and weighing. You say a little bit of this and a little bit of that. Isn't it the source of all the misery that the PvdA doesn't dare to make choices, but always a little doubt about what it wants? What's your choice now? What do you want with that trail in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u30	I know that the Labour Party is the source of all misery for the PVV. It is good that Mr Madlener emphasizes this once again, but he goes a little too short when we talk about the railways. He knows that himself, of course. It is again the well-known PVV words about Purple that come back here: it is no good and it is a mess. That does not do justice to all the people who work on the track and make sure that the train runs every day. When it comes to planning on the track, the PvdA is for a public track that is in public hands. We always have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u31	Yes, but since 1998 we have been faced with massive privatisation, with calls for tenders. The public task has just been set at a distance! Minister Dijsselbloem must send as shareholder at a distance. Secretary of State Mansveld has just resigned for that reason. Surely the PvdA can't say that things are going the way they are and that she has played a small role in this? I thought the PvdA had the lead in the past few years. I do not belong to the PvdA to this day, until this debate, when a choice has to be made. That's what this committee says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u32	Good. And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u33	My question is, what does the PvdA stand for? I asked Mrs Dijksma, the successor of Mrs Mansveld, the same question, but to this day we have no answer to the question of the future vision of the PvdA. We cannot, of course, continue in this way!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u34	I agree. Without the future vision of the PvdA, we can't go on the trail. It is quite clear in our election programme: bringing ProRail and NS closer together is a way of ensuring that both transport and infrastructure management are more in one hand. That is the direction we are in, because then you can coordinate investments properly and then you can adjust if there are problems. That's the PvdA's vision. I've told you that a number of times. Mr Madlener is therefore asking about the familiar road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u35	Mr. Chairman. I have to admit, when the Fyra-debacle came out, I had never heard of Ansaldo Breda. I thought it was the company Antalend that was based in Breda, but it turned out to be "made in Italy." If I am correct, the Fyra survey was the twentieth parliamentary survey ever and the third under the current Parliamentary Survey Act. I would like to stress to colleagues in this House once again that a parliamentary survey is something very, very special. You must not underestimate this instrument! You have very far-reaching powers: you can hear witnesses in public and you have an unlimited right of information claim. If you use those powers correctly and make firm use of them, there is no alternative but to have a report roll out that is meaningful, both in terms of truth finding and in terms of lessons for the future. Once again, we are talking about a parliamentary survey. That is why I do not think it is right that we, as Members of Parliament, should talk about a survey report per person around ten minutes. Actually, that should be different. We should have a much longer and larger debate on this, because such a survey is by far the most difficult instrument we can use. That's what I was gonna say for entry. As former chairman of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, I am very pleased to be able to hold a debate again with a committee of inquiry. Like the survey on the financial system, which I myself, as a Member of Parliament, also debated, the survey on housing corporations was a system inquiry. This Fyra survey was an incident investigation. However, according to our Chamber, this incident was large enough to remove our ultimate research tool, the parliamentary survey. I am proud of you all here on my left and on your staff, because you have picked this up and because you have produced a meaningful report. Thank you very much for your efforts. Truth finding is a great asset. That is why I am also taking part in the committee to review the survey legislation. However, a parliamentary survey has only really been successful when the conclusions and recommendations are largely taken over by the Chamber and subsequently translated by the Cabinet into new or adapted policies. That's what the Cabinet should do. A survey was not immediately successful when a political head rolls, despite the chocolate letters in De Telegraaf. Here I have my first big question to address to this committee of inquiry. In her view, what should be the main policy consequence of her report? It contains a series of recommendations, which is in fact a set of individual points. The recommendations often call on the person responsible to take certain matters into account in the future. But what about the big questions of our time about public transport on the railways? In the committee's investigation, not only did they look at "made in Italy" trains, but they went much further. On the basis of this further investigation, what does the committee actually think of the question of market forces on the railways? Do we have to go further, or do we have to cut back on the matter, to finally get peace and quality for the travellers? Would it be better, for example, if NS and ProRail merged? If not, why not? I myself, a traveler who has been in the cold for a long time at the NS, am particularly interested in the Committee's view on the NS. This "tent" has been discussed extensively in the investigation and, in the Committee's view, has played an extremely dubious role. Unfortunately, I have noticed that NS is a Kafkaesque company where the traveler doesn't get to the destination, or doesn't get to the destination in time, where almost no train really leaves in time, where prices rise out, where you barely meet a conductor, where you have to stand for your expensive money, where there's no clear communication when the train stops in the meadow again, where snowflakes and oak leaves dominate the timetable and where you have to wage trench wars to get your money back if you have missed your additional transport once again. We're talking about that place here. Do we really have to go through with the NS, even if we didn't go through with the market? Is it still normal in this light that NS may offer anything that is loose and stuck to public transport, but that other carriers on our main rail network do not get a chance at all? This opportunity was not given to other carriers in the phony procurement of HSL. After all, with a far too high amount of money, NS, under the State's cover, also received this concession. I'd like to hear a strong response from the committee. What does its conclusions on NS mean for the future of this caterpillar-never enough in the Dutch public transport market? In the first recommendation, the committee states that the use of rail should be improved for passengers. The Minister can then consult NS and SNCB, the rail transport operator in Belgium, through biennial and five-yearly evaluations. I think this is a missed opportunity. What do you mean you're gonna consult with the NS? Has the committee actually made that choice for this monopolist again? I would like to hear a further clarification on this point. After all, a main conclusion of the committee is that the person responsible and the NS are the head of the debacle. Now, Secretary of State Mansveld is gone. What about the NS? Is he allowed to stay? In a parliamentary survey, the damage to society is of great importance. My survey was about damage to the tenants and house seekers, and this survey is obviously about damage to rail passengers. There is the damage to the fast transport from the Randstad to the south, but there is also financial damage. As a Member of Parliament, I want to know exactly what we are talking about. I read in the report that the overall damage amounts to EUR 11 billion. As a politician, I have learned that you should not mention amounts if you can't support them as hard as possible. Well, what exactly is the EUR 11 billion amount based on? The report writes about a total cost from the State towards NS of 790 million. There is also a loss of user compensation of EUR 1.85 billion by the State. Moreover, there is the availability fee of EUR 3.6 billion to be paid by the State to Infraspeed and finally the investment in the network of EUR 7.3 billion, i.e. in the underutilised network and not used for which it is intended. I will then come together with another, namely an increase of nearly 13.6 billion. My main question is whether the committee can mention the total amount of financial damage to the taxpayer and justify it with specific items. An investment in a net is of course not a real damage as long as it is not lost by an earthquake. The temporary failure to achieve returns can, of course, constitute a damage. I hope that the committee can be more precise in its response to this financial demand for damages. I would also like to focus specifically on the role of the supervisory authority on safety and the like: the Inspection Environment and Transport (ILT). The Committee of Inquiry is quite explicit in its opinion: the ILT has been shockingly inadequate in certification and inspection. "Unacceptable minimalist" is called the action of the ILT. To my previous written question to the committee on how the ILT should be dealt with in order to function properly, the committee replied only that it did not examine it. That's a shame, because then nothing happens at the ILT. And this is a very important point, since the ILT has also become the new home of, yes, the Authority housing corporations. From the angle of social housing I don't hear any good sounds about it, because of the ticking culture that would dominate the ILT. Now it turns out that the ILT also failed the Fyra. Then you should expect the committee to find something more about how this club, the ILT, could function better. I would like to receive a further response, especially now that Minister Blok has said that he awaits the cabinet response to the Fyra report on the suitability of the ILT as a supervisor in the social housing sector. Then I come to the call for tenders for the transport concession. According to the Committee, it was a messy, inconsistent and inadequate concession. The behaviour of both NS and Cabinets was unwise and irresponsible. In the end, this leads to what the committee calls an "unworkable large-risk concession contract." That's a big deal! That's quite a conclusion! In Recommendation 12, I see that the Committee finds: "Bested in procurement and contract management in a national context, explicit attention is paid to risks that may hinder the achievement of the contract goal." That's a bit of an open shot. Of course we have to do this, but how? How will we deal with this in the future? In response to my previous written question, the committee states that it is not in favour of an independent procurement supervisor, as I suggested. I regret that, because how are we going to ensure that such large tenders will be successful in the future and that, for example, NS will not automatically get its way again or, worse still, SNCB? I'm gonna finish up. If the Fyra trains had started operating according to timetable, this parliamentary survey would probably not have taken place. At least that is what the committee itself admits in its written replies. No ruler would have died prematurely and all of us here would not really be thinking about the major public transport questions. Each committee chairman shall make its own deliberations on the work of the committee and who she shall call for a public hearing. Minister Dijsselbloem did not have to come despite harsh criticism. I will not ask the committee why he was allowed to sit in his armchair, but the committee's finding that the Chamber has been too lax is actually much more important. What role does the House of Representatives have to keep the finger on the wrist better according to the committee? This is a recurring thread in the findings of all recent parliamentary committees of inquiry. That is what we must do. Fortunately, other colleagues have also explicitly asked this question. I take that question to heart. That's why I'm here. Once again, thank you very much to this hard-working committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u36	Mr. Chairman. I would like to start by thanking the members of the committee and her staff for doing this huge job. The first reactions to this report were almost exclusively praised. The parliamentary committee of inquiry has produced a solid report and former Secretary of State Mansveld had no choice but to leave immediately. But she quit because she misinformed the Chamber. That is a political mortal sin, but there is so much more going on on the Dutch trail. Now that the dust has descended and the harsh truth is beginning to realize that nothing else has changed and that the problems on the track are much wider than just the hsl, the criticism of the Committee of Inquiry bursts. See the comments of former NS-topman Jan Timmer and research journalist Marcel van Silfhout. They express strong criticism. The PVV shares some of these criticisms. First of all, the question is whether the committee has come to the right conclusion. The main conclusion is that the originally envisaged transport over HSL-South was not achieved, because other interests have repeatedly prevailed over the achievement of passenger transport. For example, the State attached particular importance to the financial returns and the NS was focused on maintaining its strategic position on the Dutch track. The State relied on the belief in market incentives and that ultimately proved to be the germ of the problems. The belief in market forces is also directly linked by the committee to the problem of financial decisions dominated by the then cabinet. So market forces are described as the germ of the problem. In our view, the main conclusion of the committee could and should have been that the unfair belief in market forces on the track by the Purple parties D66, PvdA and VVD eventually led to this debacle. Why did the Committee avoid this conclusion? The committee of inquiry is intended precisely to answer these questions, to stand above party politics and to find the truth. As far as we are concerned, the somewhat cryptic main conclusion that financial interests were placed above passenger interests does not reflect the real outcome of the investigation. I would therefore like to put the question to the committee, which has ensured that the committee does not simply conclude that market forces on the railways have gone wrong with regard to HSL-South, both for the traveller and for the taxpayer. What exactly is the role of the European Union in this dossier? It was the EU that had ordered that all those national railway companies should privatise and everything would be tendered for at European level. That was once the vision of the 1990s. And now the mistake of the Netherlands is coming: The Netherlands as a good boy in the class gets to work quickly. Germany and France do not do that, because these countries stand up for their own interests, but the Netherlands do. The Netherlands is self-sufficient and opening up the market and now we are dealing with the fried pears. France and Germany refuse to do so and the EU does not want to do so. Now the Netherlands is dealing with the damage. The moral of this story: politicians, stop running after the EU and stand up for your own citizens. This opinion is not from the Committee of Inquiry, but from myself. It cannot be read back in the report, but the question is, of course, why not. What was the role of the European Union in this whole dossier? There are also other recommendations in the report. These recommendations are sometimes very general and therefore really an open door. Recommendation 1 states, quite frankly, that the person responsible and the House of Representatives must improve the transport value for passengers by ensuring that more fast trains with affordable tickets run across the HSL-South. Yeah, so over the 5 billion-dollar infrastructure, it would be good to actually ride fast trains. That is, of course, something we all understand in this room. That is what we have been striving for for years, so that recommendation is very simplistic. Then recommendation 3: make an explicit choice for the degree of market functioning, preferably in four scenarios. An explicit choice for the degree of market functioning? Then I don't remember either. The problem is that this choice is not made. Here are scenarios outlined with the political parties in mind, because each political party fits somewhere in a scenario and again the committee does not make any choice. The Committee of Inquiry does what the Chamber blames: it barks, but it does not bite. The Committee concludes that the NS made financially unfeasible decisions. Financially unfeasible decisions? But what is the role of the shareholder? Why, then, has the role of the NS shareholder been under-exposed? Why hasn't Minister Dijsselbloem been heard in public? Isn't it precisely the shareholder, the State, who failed? The committee concludes that financial interests were mainly served, isn't it? Why does the Committee not criticise the role of the NSFSC, the NS Financial Services Company? The purpose of this tax arrangement was to avoid tax by a state-owned company under the supervision of the Minister of Finance. I shall conclude with a question about the costs of this committee of inquiry. The PVV did not participate in this survey because we found the costs too high. The PVV found 2.16 million euros too high a cost. That is why I would like to know whether the committee has remained within this budget. The committee members are not paid extra; the official support may be, but I do not know. Then why should this committee cost EUR 2.16 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u37	I think it is a fair question from Mr Madlener. We need to be careful with taxpayers' money and spending must be accounted for; you need to be transparent in how you use the money. However, if you emphasise the special nature of a parliamentary survey, you put two years of work into it and you have to hire external experts and so on, as a parliament, you must be able to make a substantial sum of money available for it. Does Mr Madlener agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u38	I agree with Mr Van Vliet that the Committee of Inquiry should be able to do its job properly. Only, as a room, we have to check that it is within the budget. So I can't check at the moment if the budget was really necessary. I do not know what the EUR 2.16 million that was budgeted was spent on. I see committee members who weren't paid extra and officials who probably worked here anyway. So I don't know; I'd like to know. I also want to know if it was within the budget, as we thought it was a fairly high budget in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u39	Once again, I think it is a fair question and I am also curious about the committee's answer. Fortunately, with our survey investigating a whole system, we have been a few tons below the budget. However, before we give it its own dynamics what such a survey costs, we must also be honest about the speciality of the instrument. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u40	I don't want to take anything away from that instrument either. It is good that the Chamber is critical of its own work and that it can hear under oath. I'm not gonna take anything off of that. I just want to ask the question, because I think that is also a task for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u41	I think it's a good question, but I'm surprised. Mr De Graaf indicated on behalf of the PVV that the scope of the survey was far too wide. It was about too much and it took too long. The same PVV is now asking why all kinds of subjects were not included in the survey. This while the PVV did not want to participate at first and wanted to vote against it because it was about too much. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u42	That is because this committee has made a very clear statement on what has happened. Since your Purple cabinet, a proper analysis has been made of what happened and who made which decisions; or the why has been properly answered, I do not really know very well. What is missing, however, is a clear conclusion. A lot of things have gone wrong and we see that not only on the HSL-South but on the whole track. The whole organization of the market in the Netherlands is of course... It is very wrong on the track. The report doesn't answer that. Of course, we all know what's been put together. It was also useful to get the facts straight, but I am missing a very clear conclusion. The committee consists of all kinds of parties who seem to want to have their own scenario. This committee barks but does not bite.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u43	I can see that Mr Madlener is not coming out entirely. I'll give him a hand. His own group colleague said earlier that the Committee of Inquiry is too expensive, and I now hear that point. He also said that the scope was too wide. So it was too many subjects, but Mr Madlener himself added a number of other subjects. His group colleague also said it would take too long, but this committee of inquiry has been rather quick. Therefore, all the criticisms that the PVV had in advance were not justified. Mr Madlener now turns to the following point: the conclusions are wrong. In short: the PVV knew in advance that it would not be right. Then why is the PVV participating in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u44	We're here together to solve problems on the track. Problems for which the PvdA is largely responsible. It is not just about the HSL-South but about the entire market organization on the Dutch track. Of course we want to solve these problems. This survey can also play a useful role. The committee has made a very good assessment of what has happened. However, the answer to the question of what has led to market forces is lacking. That question is getting out of the way and I wonder why. After all, it would be of great benefit to us if we were given an answer precisely to that question, which is so different politically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u45	I have to agree with Mr Hoogland. I think he is asking a fair question, and I shall perhaps ask it a little more specifically. The CDA attaches great importance to getting the truth out of the table, precisely in the interests of the traveller. On the one hand, the PVV says it costs too much money, on the other hand, the same PVV spokesperson says the committee should have interviewed Minister Dijsselbloem. Suppose the committee had stayed exactly within the budget, is it important for the PVV to exceed that budget and to interview Mr Dijsselbloem, or does the PVV say that the budget is up and Minister Dijsselbloem is no longer being interviewed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u46	I think it's my job to keep an eye on the budget as well. I think you agree. However, I also think that Mr Dijsselbloem should have been invited here. I want to know why that didn't happen. I don't know if that would cost extra money either. Mr Dijsselbloem is richly rewarded for his position as Minister. I do not know whether it would have resulted in extra pressure on the budget if Mr Dijsselbloem had appeared before the committee. I'd love to hear it, but I'd be surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u47	Here too, Mr Madlener is not coming out. I can understand that, because he's sending out double signals. The question is what is more important to him in this case: getting the truth out of the table or keeping it purely and exclusively on the market for a project that cost more than EUR 11 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u48	One doesn't rule out the other at all. I think the committee is perfectly capable of getting the truth out of the table with a certain budget. Minister Dijsselbloem really doesn't have to be on that budget. I do not think that Minister Dijsselbloem will come until he is offered very large rewards. It's just his job to appear before the committee. That doesn't have to cost an extra cent. So the example from your question makes no sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u49	I do not fully understand Mr Madlener and the PVV. They already know before the investigation starts that 2.16 million is too much. Now he comes up with questions and says he doesn't know what it's spent on. If you don't know what it's spent on, how can you tell in advance that it's too much? Doesn't he agree that he would fall into the same trap as we might have done with each other, namely that we asked too much for too little money?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u50	I didn't say it was too much in advance. I asked if the committee was within the budget. We found the budgeted 2.16 million on the high side. We therefore felt that we should not participate in this committee. I would now like to know whether there has been any work within that budget and where the EUR 2.16 million has gone. I think those are legitimate questions, because it's also just taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u51	I think that the question of whether the budget has been kept within the budget is quite right, but I do not yet get an answer from Mr Madlener, while he also clearly states that the PVV in advance found 2.16 million too much, without knowing what it was spent on. So my question remains: how can you know in advance that 2.16 million is too much if you don't know what it's spent on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u52	We knew, of course, that a committee was being set up to make a report. The question now is why it should cost 2.16 million. I'd like that question answered. I would also like to have answered the question as to whether this budget has worked. Are there any exceedances and can it possibly be cheaper? We must always ask these questions, even in this case. I am not saying that to bully the committee, but because it is our job to spend taxpayers' money efficiently, even when it comes to a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u53	That's always the case. Speaking of budgets, the PVV has included in its electoral programme that it wants to cut back 2 billion on rail and public transport during this period of government. How does Mr Madlener reconcile this with his statement that he actually wants all public transport to go back to the government? Despite that statement, he still wants to cut 2 billion. How does Mr Madlener see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u54	That's a good question. I would like to point out what has been ruined by the current organization of the market in railways in terms of taxpayers' money. Just look at the Fyra: how much money is not wasted with that? If that had all gone well, we could have saved a lot of taxpayers' money. That's what we're here for. Things aren't going well. You have to agree with me, don't you? Things haven't been going well in years. It's not working efficiently. Money's being thrown away. Trains are ordered and then sent back. That's really big money. That is why it is our job to see how it can be more efficient. The PVV thinks it can be more efficient if we take the track more into our own hands, because the current system, a little market and a little distance control and still keep it at a distance, is not working. That never worked. I've been in this Chamber since 2006 and as early as 2006 we had exactly the same discussions: "Do something!'. Then the Secretary of State says she's not about it: "It's a little that and a little that." It's not gonna work. The PVV believes that tightening the reins and better guidance by the minister can save a lot of money. So we can save money and still improve public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u55	The facts show that market forces in the regions have resulted in a lot of savings. Apart from that, I have not received an answer to my question: what exactly is the 2 billion savings made by the PVV in its election programme going to be? What does the PVV propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u56	I mention, for example, the approach to black-driving and the cost of black-driving in the Rotterdam tram and metro. A better approach to this can save a lot more money. I also mention what went wrong with the Fyra, which we are discussing now. How much taxpayers' money did this cost? The VVD has been there for years and has said: we keep going like this. It doesn't work, though. Now we're dealing with the damage, and now you're asking me how we can save. Well, by not having these kind of committees and by directing public transport properly. The Fyra affair, which began with the division of the NS and ProRail in 1995, is a very poignant example of the powerlessness and failure of politics. That's exactly what I'm saying to the VVD. This report shows that, too. The committee concludes what we already know and sets it together neatly, a list of events and political decisions that are almost at the unbelievable limits. I will mention it again, especially for the VVD, which apparently does not understand how to save money on public transport. It's from Tineke "tolpoortje" Netelenbos, who else knows her? In the case of the NS itself, the NS was involved in the procurement process. That makes sense, because the NS wasn't used to that at all. The cabinet is guilty of improper administration. I also refer to the irresponsible and unwise behaviour of the NS and the cabinet. The cabinet provokes strategic behavior in the NS. The train is delivered with five years delay. The committee states that it was clear from the outset that it was not feasible. Certification by the ILT is inadequate and dangerous. The NS makes irresponsible decisions, but the minister stays away. The NS is doing a bad job, but the cabinet is going through with it. There will be no full alternative, while the Thalys is long gone and has proven themselves. The Chamber shall be wrongly informed. On this last point, Mrs Mansveld is killed. This is a very sad list. I am looking at the VVD spokesperson, who just asked me the question: how can the PVV cut so much on public transport? I hope that the VVD is willing to take a critical look at its own performance and the situation of the railways today. So it's a sad list. However, I am asking the committee what it is actually forcing. The PVV considers that the report is solid but incomplete. It seems that the real conclusion, namely that market forces on the track are the mother of all evil, to say the least, with the words of ex-NS-topman Timmer, is avoided because of political differences. Of course, that doesn't help us much. Mrs. Mansveld quit; she's gone. Furthermore, however, I do not yet see the beginning of a change in thinking. What does the committee actually think of Jan Timmer's telling statement that pushing through privatisation is the mother of all evil? What, according to the Committee, is the meaning of this ruling? And does she agree? The Chamber is divided on how best to organise Dutch rail transport, but the Committee of Inquiry itself appears to be a fine reflection of the Chamber. So the same applies to the committee as to the Chamber: it does not come out either. Here too, the conclusion is: she barks, but she doesn't bite.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u57	I have a quick question. I have just heard that Mr Madlener argues that market forces are the great evil and that they are going to fail. I do not know whether Mr Madlener himself has been on the train in the Netherlands. I've done that quite a lot myself. I must say to Mr Madlener that it has always been a huge disappointment. These trains are simply not doing well: there is no conductor, they leave minutes late and in the statistics they act as if it is on time. Does Mr Madlener dare to place a great deal of responsibility for this at the NS itself, which was once a well-performing tent but now for the traveller is a miserable tent? Does he dare to tackle the NS instead of making her monopolist again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u58	Before the NS was independent and separated from ProRail, it was part of ProRail and the Ministry. At least then there was a direct control. In our view, that was the beginning of a lot of misery. And yes, of course the NS must be addressed. After all, it's a state-owned company. The State is 100% shareholder and the Minister of Finance is responsible for the operation of that company. Furthermore, the Ministry of I and M should critically examine and steer the NS's policy. Both of them didn't happen enough. That's why we're here today. So of course we have to look at the NS. We need to look at the board of the NS, but also at ourselves. Room's not coming out either. We have opted for a very hybrid system: a little market operation and a little bit not. No real choices have been made. It seems like the European Union, I would almost say. Now we're stuck with the fried pears. Since 2006, the year I entered the Chamber, I have been constantly hearing from directors: yes, I want to, but I am not going over it. In our view, putting these companies at a distance has led to a semi-soft steering system. That is, and I agree with Mr Timmer, the mother of all evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u59	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with a great compliment to the committee, to my colleagues, but certainly also to the people who are behind the committee, the officials who have also had an extraordinary amount of work on this adventure, which I think it is. I think it's a nice instrument, too. Unfortunately, we are often driven by volatility here, because the agendas are full or because we have to be in the newspaper or on television. The instrument "Parliamentary Survey" provides an opportunity to deepen and forces participants to dive under the radar for a time. That may be a disadvantage for visibility, but it is an advantage for the substance that is also needed from this Chamber on certain dossiers. That appeals to me very much and I congratulate you once again on the result. Of course I have some questions. My first question is a bit of a core question. The Committee presents an image of a very messy procurement process that has gone wrong several times. The SP would have liked the Committee to have made a concrete recommendation on the phenomenon of "procurement on the railways." 'Cause how do you feel about this now? How can you give that a qualification, bearing in mind the long period of tendering? After all, there is a lot to be done. The SP wonders whether the procurement of rail to foreign state-owned companies is wise. Why didn't the committee go so far as to make a recommendation about this, when it did show the whole process of contracting? It has been able to reflect the disadvantages of public international contracting. I also ask this because a parliamentary inquiry was carried out in the First Chamber a few years ago, in which privatisations and self-determinations were depicted. A number of specific situations were highlighted, including the independent of the NS and the split with ProRail. I imagine that you do not want to make very political statements with a broad committee. I fully understand that. But how much depth can you put apolitically in it, so that you get an idea of what was going on and what wasn't, so that we can draw our own conclusions? The Committee has not made an explicit investigation into whether the independence of the NS.I refer again to the First Chamber's report.. is partly due to the Fyra-debacle that has taken place. Does the committee share the opinion of the SP that the NS has ended up in some sort of spa, some sort of purgatory? Has the HSL's tender been sensible at the time? On the one hand, the cabinet chose to spend, but on the other hand, it demanded that the NS, of which one was a shareholder, should win the concession. When looking ahead, the committee also states that a further discussion on the planning of the railways is necessary, with whether or not to contract and whether or not to combine the NS with ProRail again, of course, are obvious issues. Under Secretary of State Mansveld, however, a Long Term Track Agenda has been established, in which these choices are already politically anchored. In the Committee's view, should this be called into question again? And if so, in what direction? The Cabinet and the House of Representatives have to provide more, fast and well affordable trains to Belgium. In this way the HSL-South will be better used and the interests of the traveller will be put first again. However, the Committee considers the NS's alternative transport plan, which is currently being rolled out, to be inadequate. So what is a good alternative in the Committee's view? Has the committee not been too focused on Brussels' final destination? You might also wonder whether it is realistic to demand a short-term transport offer for which there is no equipment. The purchase of new HSL equipment is very expensive, while the Thalys already partially fulfils this function. What exactly does the committee mean by more, fast and affordable trains to Belgium? Would the participation of the NS in the Thalys still be a possibility? Or have we already struck the Belgians and the French in such a way that this is no longer an option? The committee states that new rail infrastructure must be clear about the demand for transport on the railway line from the outset. To what extent is that realistic? Sometimes lines appear to attract a lot more travellers in practice than thought, but the opposite is also true. On the contrary, should there not be room to adapt the situation to practice? For example, the NS says that when the HSL was built, there was a different picture of the need for fast connections to Brussels than it is now, in practice. According to the committee, is this true? The committee also states that the Chamber has not shown enough teeth. I would like to refer to the Roemer motion, which was adopted, which called for the Benelux train not to be cancelled. That motion has not been carried out, despite repeated requests by the Chamber. In what way can the Chamber in such a case show more teeth, except by tabling a motion of censure? It probably won't be adopted after all. In what way can the Chamber not only uncover the teeth on such files, but also devour the bite-ready pieces between the teeth? The Committee resents the cabinet that this has not taken seriously the alternative of other carriers such as Arriva into consideration for the best possible passenger offer on the HSL-South. However, the Committee itself does not assess the feasibility of the Arriva plan. Could it not be that, because of the unfeasible nature of this plan, the cabinet has chosen not to take this seriously? The Committee also makes recommendations on the admission and supervision by the Inspection Leefenvironment and Transport. Several colleagues have already mentioned this. For example, the responsible executive should ensure changes in policies and behavior at the ILT. The ILT must take a critical stance and ensure that carriers' safety systems comply with all requirements. The ILT should also step up its monitoring of inspection bodies. The ILT is very much portrayed by the committee as a toothless paper tiger who didn't inspect anything himself. Does the committee know whether this ILT method is applied widely within the railway file in this way, or does it only apply to the Fyra? What is the committee's opinion on the quality of the inspection? Does the ILT have enough knowledge and capacity to actually carry out inspections during the construction of new trains? Finally, the V250 was sent back to Italy, partly at the request of my colleague Bashir. It is not entirely clear to me, at least, to what extent the committee believes that this was wise. Does it share the view that the train had such design errors that it could never have functioned properly? Or could the V250, if a little more time had been allocated, have been put into service reliably? The Committee states that it did not investigate this. I am somewhat surprised, because the Chamber set up the committee after these trains had been taken out of service. The Committee is quite hard hit by the lack of revenue for the Empire because the concession of the NS on the HSL-South does not appear to pay. However, in answering the factual questions, it indicates that this actually does not matter to the Treasury because the NS is entirely in the State's hands. Isn't that a circular reasoning? Today, an epilogue of some sort was released on the book De derailement. They include experts who particularly stress the fact that the start-up phase to the tender has not been sufficiently taken into account by the committee. In other words, the crucial misses were made before the tender. These were created by the sacred faith in market forces on the track, by leaving the Thalys project while already invested, and especially by putting the NS in an impossible position as a two-headed private public monster. The crazy high bid on the concession was compensated by attracting broken equipment. Has the committee deliberately ignored this ideological madness? If not, does she still have an opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u60	Mr. Chairman. Everyone's always so awfully negative about the Fyra. Let me just say positive about the Fyra. The train is still running. The train sets are still available. Look at the various model railway tracks. Look at the model railroad shops. There they are in piles on the shelves. They're still as natural as possible. They've even been modified. Look, I've got some pictures here. See? They're still here. When I look in the description, there I see the addition: available with releasing bottom plate! We have invested around EUR 11 billion in a brand-new railway line and railway sets. Now what? The promised high-speed train with its purple stripes has been towed back to Italy without bottom plates and with cracks and burning battery. The alternative timetable provides sleek travellers. How did this happen? In order to answer that question, the Committee of Inquiry has carried out a thorough investigation. I would therefore like to express my appreciation for the thoroughness of the research, for the efforts of the committee and for the results presented. This appreciation applies not only to my colleagues, but also to the support staff who have carried out his work more in the background. The report is rightly destructive. Directors and the NS have consciously set up blinders at various times and withheld the obvious risks. The House of Representatives barked but did not bite through, as has already been pointed out. We are happy to take the various recommendations to heart. In my contribution, I want to look back first and then look forward. First of all, I look in the mirror. How did this ever happen? And then it scares me a little bit about the heart, because it's more than ignoring procurement protocols. It is deeper than the failure of an inspection authority, the Inspection Environment and Transport (ILT). It is not just a soft attitude of the House of Representatives, as this could be described. It's deeper. It can be summarized in the term "administrative blinkers," but maybe I should put it differently. It seems as if the short-term thinking, the scoring urge, the wrong priority statement, conscious or unconscious ignorance and the confidence in a neoliberal or Purple market working ideology, which I believe to be too dominant, have crept into the administrative genes and settled there. The government was clinging to two thoughts when it came to market forces. The Purple Government wanted an open invitation to tender for international transport or for all HSL transport. At the same time, almost everyone, including in this Chamber, thought that the NS should really take care of that transport. In addition, the NS was placed outside the government house, but all the shares were still in the hands of the Minister of Finance. The NS knew that loss on the HSL-South would be paid indirectly by the Minister. That is still the case, by the way. Secondly, the Reich had the idea that the transport concession for the HSL-South could be sold separately, but nothing was less true. The Thalys were originally to provide fast international connections. The French, Flemish and Dutch railways put signatures and ordered trains. However, Purple opted for direct award of domestic transport to the NS and for public procurement of international transport. And then it went wrong. The connection to Brussels would be part of domestic transport and thus directly compete with existing domestic intercity connections. To make a long story short: through the public tender the NS was kicked out of the Thalys and we got into a fight with the Belgians and the French. That is understandable in itself, because the HSL-South does not stop at the Belgian border or transport either. In this respect, we depend on agreements with the French and Belgian railways. The HSL-South is also an important link in national train traffic. Two thirds of travellers on the hsl stay in the Netherlands, according to research. The line competes with existing intercity connections. I will just mention the recent discussion on Dordrecht's intercity status. And yet the line was built and the calls for tenders were launched without cross-border agreements and without thinking about the interlinkage with national rail traffic. I kind of miss this point in the report. I ask the committee to reflect on this and also to answer the question as to whether it was justified at all to cut off such an important link in the national rail network and to release it into the market. How, in the Committee's view, should this be done in the event of a subsequent concession? I invite the committee to make a recommendation to that effect. The aforementioned inspection authority has also dropped a lot of strings. It was intended to counter Ansaldo Breda and the approval authority of that company, but it did not. In this context, the question arises as to whether there was mainly a management problem or lack of expertise, i.e. a lack of competence. I would also like to hear a response from the committee. Looking ahead: how are we going to ensure that the sparks of the HSL splash again? Then I mean sparks at the overhead line at frost and no sparks at the batteries. You understand that. How are we going to recoup the 11 billion invested? The Committee wants the HSL-South to be used much better and that the traveller can travel faster and cheaper from Amsterdam to Belgium. This is, in itself, an objective that we share wholeheartedly, but a hot issue in this regard is the question of what all the commitment to the traveller means to the taxpayer. How does the committee view this? The Committee states that then Minister Eurlings felt forced to meet the NS alliance in 2008. In the event of bankruptcy and new procurement, concession revenues would be significantly lower due to changing circumstances and European regulation. Also, the desired trains would start to run even later. I don't mean later than now, but later than anticipated. On this point, the committee sounds reasonable in understanding, but on the other hand the Committee of Inquiry points out that agreements need to be broken in order to achieve much better and cheaper transport. But my question is: the risks of the new concession that Minister Eurlings saw in 2008 are there now? Will the French and Belgian railways now participate in competition for the Thalys? A better concession isn't arranged with a fingerclip. I would like to hear the committee's thoughts on this. The Committee also advocates a clear and consistent choice as to the position of the NS vis-à-vis the Empire and the functioning of the market on the railways. The committee does not dare to make a choice because it is politically sensitive. That is understandable in itself. I also understand that colleagues like to put their finger on that and stir it a little bit. However, I too would like to challenge the committee on its SGPs. I simply have a specific question: what position of the NS and what kind of market operation would the committee consider to have benefited our country most or, with a view to the future, benefit from the HSL-South? The traveller was in the cold thanks to Purple politics. I hope a touch of orange from the SGP gives the traveller more comfort. We have a new logo, so it won't be that. I would advise the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment to buy two Fyras again, of course. I would advise to put one visible in her study, as a warning trophy: this should never happen again. I would also, with the necessary ceremony, give that trophy to her successor on this file in due course. I would like to invite her to hand over the second one, the one with the bottom plate, to the NS summit, as a message that the NS will really have to change its position under its reign. Mr President, thank you very much, also for your endless patience. I'm impressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u61	I would like to begin by thanking the committee, including its official support, for the report it has produced. As far as I am concerned, the committee deserves a great compliment for its clear analysis. The committee's main conclusion is that the intended transport over the HSL-South was not achieved because other interests were always given priority over passenger transport. All parties spoke of the passenger's interest, but the financial interests of the State apparently weighed more heavily. The NS was keen on maintaining its position on the Dutch track. The traveler and the taxpayer got rid of it. After examining the report, the conclusion is that the cause of the problems lies in the two inherently contradictory roles of the State. On the one hand, the State is a concession provider. The Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment is responsible for the best possible and affordable transport for the traveller. On the other hand, through the Ministry of Finance, the State is the sole shareholder of the NS. The NS is independent, but remains 100% State participation. That shareholder shall pursue financial returns and as high a dividend as possible. If we look at what went wrong, as financial interests went for the interests of the traveller, isn't the crux of the problems that the State has to defend these two conflicting interests at the same time? Can the committee reflect on this? As a result, the VVD has a question to the committee. The committee has produced a clear report, with a sharp analysis and concrete recommendations, but we are missing something on this particular point. Although the committee notes that it was not the interests of travellers but the financial interests that were at stake, it does not recommend how this should be changed in the future. Can the Committee advise the Chamber how it should deal with these conflicting interests, bearing in mind the conclusion that financial interests always had priority? How should we deal with the tension between the efficiency requirements of the Ministry of Finance and the substantive management by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment? How can the Chamber achieve a balanced balance of interests? Are financial interests not allowed to play a role at all? Finally, the latter is about taxpayers' money. If the committee finds that the financial interests have been leading, why has the Minister of Finance not been heard by the committee on the basis of that capacity or responsibility? This question was also raised by Mrs Van Veldhoven and other spokesmen. In this context, it is also appropriate that we, as a Chamber, should put our hands in our own right. The Committee notes that, despite all the critical questions, the Chamber did not go through. Does the committee have any specific recommendations on how the Court could better fulfil its supervisory role? I shall now turn to the recommendations. The first recommendation states that the current HSL-South transport needs to be improved, with a focus on faster trains and more affordable tickets. Compared to the initial agreements of 2001, the current offer of the HSL-South rail transport to the train traveller is insufficient. We share that conclusion. However, there has been no tender and therefore no examination of the passenger's demand for the current offer. That is why my question is what the committee is basing this recommendation on. The liberalisation of international rail transport has already been mentioned. Anyone can ask for room for international rail transport, because it is liberalised. But don't you run into the sacred houses in Belgium and France? Can they stop other carriers, given that they now also greatly favour the Thalys? In 2018, a first key moment follows whether the NS is performing properly. The VVD wonders whether, in the Committee's view, this so-called mid-term evaluation would give an opportunity to re-examine which carrier the passenger could best serve through a tender. I would like a response from the committee. Recommendations 2, 3 and 4 concern the development of various scenarios for the degree of market forces in rail structure. The VVD is in favour of this, because if the committee's report teaches us anything, it is that at some point there has been a certain degree of narrowing among all those involved. I am talking about the NS, the ministries responsible, but also about the Chamber. In order to avoid this in the future, we need to look seriously and without blinkers at what scenarios are possible. These also need to be somewhat internally linked, so that we do not go into bite-snap changes. The question then is: how do we organise rail transport? What are the advantages and disadvantages of the different scenarios? Does the Committee agree with the VVD that such an investigation into all possible scenarios is a necessary condition for decision-making on the railway system? Can the committee give an indication of how much time it would take for the various scenarios to be properly worked out? As far as the VVD is concerned, these scenarios also look at the size of the main rail network, the position of the NS versus the State, the role of the NS at the stations and what is related to this. Then, in the run-up to the end of the current transport concession in 2024, we can decide how to serve and safeguard the interests of the passenger on the railways. Recommendations 5 to 10 relate to the Inspection Environment and Transport. The Committee calls for a change in policy and behaviour and for strengthening the chain of certification and licensing. Clear international agreements must also be made with fellow supervisors. The ILT failed to check the Fyra by not relying on signals that the trains might be unsafe. It is, of course, too crazy to say that the ILT does not inspect the equipment for safety, but only inspects procedures properly, relying on an external inspection hired by the manufacturer of the train. The passenger must be able to assume that he is getting on a safe train and therefore safety on the track is very important for the VVD. The VVD is curious how the government will tighten up the working methods of the ILT. Safety checks must not be merely a paper exercise. The Committee recommends maintaining the supervision of international trains at national level. However, according to forthcoming regulations from Brussels, a single European inspection is planned for international trains. The advantage of this is that within one inspection, knowledge and expertise of these international trains are also built up. In addition, this is more efficient as several national inspections do not have to look at a train over and over again. However, inspections must also be more than a paper tiger. I would like to ask the committee why, with this in mind, it expressly opts for a national inspection rather than a single European inspection for international trains. I also expect the Secretary of State to indicate in her response to the report the possibilities for influencing the process in Europe, taking into account the outcome of the debate on this specific recommendation. The inadequate provision of information from the government to the Lower House is now a common thread in successive parliamentary surveys. The VVD therefore proposes that the Temporary Committee for the Evaluation of the Parliamentary Survey Act looks explicitly at the provision of information to the House of Representatives and the recommendations of the Committee. Can the committee reflect on this proposal? Finally. The inquiry and the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry have been responsible for the Fyra-debacle, which has lasted 15 years. In the report, the Secretary of State saw reason to quit. The VVD Group thanks Secretary of State Mansveld for everything she has meant for the railroad in recent years. The VVD Group hopes that the committee's recommendations will prevent such a failure in the future and that we will be able to prevent the traveller and the taxpayer from being left in the cold again. Once again, I would like to thank the committee and the official support for their work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u62	Do I hear correctly that the VVD is in favour of a European inspection and wants to abolish the national inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u63	This process has long been under way in Europe. We have already discussed this in debates. The advantage of a European inspection is that you have one inspection for cross-border trains. That is how it has always been discussed in debates. The committee now recommends something quite different, namely that the national inspection should be given more powers. I ask the committee to reflect on the arguments for a European inspection. I also ask the Cabinet to come back to it so that we can have this fundamental debate with good information on where the best place to carry out the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u64	Let us look at what the European Commission and the European Union are failing. Think of fighting fraud and spending money to achieve certain goals. You also know that money ends up in the wrong hands. Then where does the VVD base its confidence that the Netherlands is in safe hands at a European inspection, which, I assume, is controlled by the European Commission? Wouldn't you rather keep the passenger's safety in your own hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u65	If Mr Madlener has listened carefully, he has heard that I have asked the committee to respond. In addition, I asked the Cabinet to discuss this further so that we could make a good decision on it. The safety of the trains is at the top for me. Of course, Mr Madlener is entrusted with bad thinking of everything that comes from Europe. We are simply critical of it, even on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u66	I would also like to address Mrs De Boer on the ideology underlying this debacle. How does she look back on the second Purple time with Minister Jorritsma and Minister Zalm? Those were Mrs De Boer's partymates. They said goodbye to an ongoing route with SNCB. We could have had a good Dutch-Belgian train connection for a long time, but that was abandoned. How does Mrs. De Boer look at that kind of decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u67	I have another question to ask: what type of decisions do you mean? Decisions to opt for tender?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u68	Yes. I am talking about the decision to award contracts and the decision to step out of an ongoing process. NS and SNCB were already on the road together to develop a joint train service. Mrs Jorritsma and Mr Zalm then chose a route which, in my view, helped to create this situation, with the committee that looked at it. Is that also a reason for the VVD or for Mrs De Boer personally, perhaps she is looking at it differently to say that this market operation and those tenders should not have taken place at all and that the train is simply a public good? A train just has to run from A to B and you have to be good at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u69	I believe that at the time there were two parallel routes, namely a market consultation and the explicit demand for NS to come up with a supply. That was the actual situation. Apart from that, Mr Smaling has the facts well in order. He also asks me to reflect on the question of whether it should have happened afterwards. Then I would ask Mr Smaling to look with me at the places where tenders have worked on the track. Market forces here are not the culprits, at least, not in the VVD's view. The question here is whether the tender has been properly executed. I think that has gone a lot wrong. It is not a direct reason for us to abandon a complete ideology.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u70	Yeah, but now is the time to do that. Look at Cort van der Linden. He was almost a socialist. Look how the VVD evolved after that. Now that we are studying and discussing such an in-depth report, it is time for the VVD to say: liberalisation, which we believed in in the late 1990s as a VVD, did not work. The VVD should now introspecte to come up with a new rail transport model.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u71	Firstly, we ask the cabinet to adopt the committee's recommendations and to develop different scenarios for the structure of the railways. Then we can make a clear choice and the structure is internally linked, which is not the case now. In fact, market forces are half-hearted. Secondly, I would like to take Mr Smaling to the regions. Maybe we can make a nice work visit together. I happen to know that in the high north, where I live, market forces have created much cheaper and better quality transport. There are more trains there and the supply has grown. And the number of travellers has also increased, thanks to market forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u72	The VVD has a clear argument about the inspection and the European playing field. In Europe, however, the wheels are moving slowly. This means that, in the meantime, the question is what we are doing here and now with the inspection, within the framework that exists. How does the VVD see a tightening up of the inspection process at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u73	I would like to put that question to the cabinet through the committee. In the light of the committee's report, I have also just denounced the method of working. I would very much like the cabinet to come forward with proposals to improve the working methods of the ILT.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u74	I am concerned about the position of the VVD. Does the VVD share the committee's conclusion that we must also ensure that this approach is improved within the current framework? I naturally share the view that we should ask the committee what suggestions it has come up with. But I am curious about the VVD's position on this. Should the current working methods of the ILT also be sharper?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u75	You may not have heard me correctly, but I do think that we should look more closely at the ILT's working methods. This report once and for all shows that there is something wrong with this method of working. I would also like to ask the cabinet, through the committee, to come forward with proposals to improve the working methods of the ILT.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u76	Mr. Chairman. This committee was set up because my former colleague Sander de Rouwe, together with Mrs Van Veldhoven, tabled a motion on this matter three years ago. Now the committee's report is there and there has already been a great deal left to do before this debate. In-depth research has been carried out for the report. Above all, these questions were on the table: how could it have come to this, who or what was responsible for this and how can we prevent such mistakes and abuses in the future? I would like to thank the members of the committee and also the staff for the great work they have done on behalf of the Chamber. The committee has done a lot of work to find the truth and to come up with recommendations on how we can move forward in the future. Thank you again to the members and staff. "The traveler on 1," this is often confessed here. I believe that the previous director of the Dutch Railways even said that the passenger is 1, 2 and 3. However, the practice is different. I'd say that place 1 is enough, if only that's the case. 'Cause the train traveler's in the cold. There are many other interests for the State and for the Dutch Railways that were considered more important. We see the committee's investigation mainly as a support for the traveller and an incentive to the politicians and the Dutch Railways to finally put that traveller at the centre. The committee places the traveller at the centre of its report in many places. We appreciate that approach route and take it from here. When it comes to the committee's working methods in answering the questions asked, I thank the committee for its work, but here and there we have a point of criticism. For example, many questions were asked by us about the non-invitation of a number of people. Of course, we also understand that you cannot invite the whole of the Netherlands and abroad, but we and fellow room members do not just ask that. When questions are asked why someone is not invited, a standard answer always follows, which does not do justice to the specific questions at specific times. We regret that. The committee's main conclusion is that the originally envisaged transport across HSL-South was not achieved because other interests have repeatedly prevailed over the achievement of passenger transport. For example, the State attached great importance to the financial returns, while the Dutch Railways were focused on maintaining the strategic position on the Dutch railway. This has not only harmed the passenger's interest, but also left unused the billion-dollar investment financed by taxpayers' money in the HSL-South. If we call the traveller and the taxpayer, we must not forget the staff, because every time the Dutch Railways fail, the staff must explain to the traveller what went wrong, while it is not their fault. From the beginning there was criticism of the Fyra, and that criticism focused not only on the technique, but also on the lower frequency, the high rates, the absence of subscriptions, the non-validity of the NS discount card and the student card, the mandatory reservation, the inability to take the bike and the expiry of the direct intercity train between The Hague, Dordrecht and Roosendaal. All these things led from the first day of the new train service to a storm of criticism. Even if Ansaldo Breda had delivered a technically perfect train, the entire Fyra project was a failure in terms of marketing. It was badly placed in the market because price, product, promotion and place were not well worked out. Monopolists often fall into that trap. It is believed that the product will be bought after all. The committee doesn't say much about that bad start. Does the committee share the idea that this could have been done much better? Does the committee share the view that this is an example of monopoly behaviour? After that bad start, on Tuesday 15 January 2013, a cover grid fell from the bottom of a Fyra, the high-speed train of the Italian builder AnsaldoBreda. And then the size was full. On that 15th January, half of the Fyra trains fell out, while the other half drove with an average delay of one hour. As a result of the winter conditions there were two days left. On 17 January 17 of the 20 trains failed. After another incident, the Belgian railway service decided one day later to ban the use of the Fyra on the HSL route. The international train service between Amsterdam and Brussels ended. The Fyra took only 40 days, from 9 December 2012 to 17 January 2013. Is there another place in the Railway Museum, because the Fyra did write history in that short time? We share the committee's firm conclusion that, first of all, the successive ministers involved, the Secretary of State and the Dutch Railways are responsible for the fact that the Fyra transport over the HSL-South has not arrived. It seems as if we Members of Parliament can easily point to others. The ministers and the Dutch Railways put financial and strategic interests first. Ansaldo Breda and the Dutch Railways did not solve the problems with the Fyra. In addition, the Belgian railway company SNCB also placed its own interest over the concerns for good transport. It becomes painful when the committee finds that the Lower House barked but did not bite by always agreeing with the choices of the Cabinet and the Dutch Railways. The House of Representatives is therefore also jointly responsible and we, as MPs, are directly addressed by the Committee. We see in the report a number of red threads. I would like to highlight four red threads and, in particular, submit them to the committee. The first common thread is that the State and the Dutch Railways have a difficult relationship. In 1996, NS became independent, but the company remained state owned. To this day, this leads to a lack of clarity. On the one hand, NS must function as an ordinary company with profit goals, but on the other hand, NS must also carry out the wishes and demands of the Cabinet and the House of Representatives. Those two have a hard time getting together. The NS itself regularly alternates between these different roles. In addition, the NS is also too big to fail. The NS can't go bankrupt. We grumble on the Dutch Railways, but we also love the Dutch Railways and would find it indigestible if the Dutch Railways were in foreign hands. The CDA is not for a system discussion about merging NS and ProRail. A system change is not the solution to an attitude that wasn't right. Changing, changing or aligning a logo on stationery or under e-mails does not change your work attitude. Converting both companies by merging is a solution for people who believe that problems on the track are simple and have no deeper problems. People of the Dutch Railways and ProRail will not suddenly work better. How could we improve the relationship between the State and the Dutch Railways, according to the Committee? How can this be a healthier relationship? The relationship with the Belgians is a second common thread. The Committee notes that the Dutch State did not agree with the Belgian railway company on the connections for the tendering of the transport concession. The State trusted that those agreements would come. In retrospect, that was naive. We've also been a little bit pricked by the Belgians. The Committee notes that the Belgian State and SNCB have not acted as reliable partners. Does the committee think that this should have another effect? What can we do about this? How can we ensure that this is improved in the future? A third thread is the risks that have not been properly mapped and the failing control. Risks and their possible consequences have not been properly investigated at important moments. Nor has there been proper thought about what should happen if there were any risks. This was done both in the procurement and the execution of the concession, as well as in the procurement and construction of the trains. Too often is optimistic thought. It is also certainly worth looking at the role of the ILT in this regard, already mentioned by several colleagues. The CDA has also regularly tabled motions on this subject. According to the Committee, are the errors of the ILT due to system errors or is this also a matter of attitude and behaviour? A fourth thread is certainly not insignificant: the House of Representatives barks, but does not bite. The Committee notes that the House of Representatives is critical of developments around the HSL-South and the Fyra, but there are moments when the Cabinet has informed the Chamber incompletely or even incorrectly, and moments when the Chamber eventually followed what the Cabinet or the Dutch Railways wanted. I have already mentioned an example of such a moment in an interruption to the PvdA spokesperson. The CDA is asking for an opinion from the committee on that not barking, because we are now faced with another moment of choice. I'm staring at the committee. We need advice here. As committee members, you have all heard, read, seen and studied it. Now we're back to choosing. What do we do now with the alternative to the Fyra? The Dutch Railways have said: "Very annoying that this has happened! Of course we do our best, but you know: difficult, difficult, expensive, expensive..." It takes a very long time and the train will probably not drive as fast as the Dutch Railways have promised. What do we do now? Should we, as a Chamber, agree to the alternative that the Dutch Railways offer us, so that somewhere in the twenties we have an alternative that doesn't really look like it? Or should we say, as the De Rouwe motion did in 2013, that we also want to look at other providers? At that time, Connexxion and Arriva also participated in the concession. They thought they could do it. Today the front pages of newspapers are adorned by statements by former directors of the Dutch Railways who say that it is no longer possible to find an alternative. Does the committee share that view? What does the Secretary of State think of that statement? Is this the opinion of the Dutch Railways or of a former director of the Dutch Railways? What, for example, can Arriva or Connexxion offer? Two days after the survey report appeared, Arriva said: we can offer an alternative! Is it worth looking at that? What are we supposed to do as a chamber now? What do you advise us? Do we have to bite through this? So should we say that we are also going to look at alternatives? Or shouldn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u77	Are you going to finish slowly, Mr Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u78	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm coming to a slow conclusion. If we take the final statement and see how the damage is distributed, we'll be looking at a total loss at the HSA of 790 million. The train was driving for 40 days. So that's 20 million a day. As a result of this change, the State receives less revenue from the transport concession than was agreed with the Dutch Railways in 2001 and the KLM. The latest estimate of this user fee is that the State will receive 1.85 billion from the NS for that purpose. The State can therefore only cover a very small part of the costs, which were nearly 11 billion. The committee also stated that the current Minister Schultz, but also Minister Dijsselbloem, made mistakes. How much does the committee attach to these mistakes and to informing the Chamber wrongly or immemorially? Finally, I come to criminal prosecution. From the Fyra investigation, we conclude that the committee has no signals that criminal prosecution would be desirable. The Belgians are going to prosecute. I ask the committee whether it would be wise for this to happen in the Netherlands as well. The members of my group are asking their colleagues to take over the committee's recommendations, because the traveller should be in the first place. I thank the committee for its recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u79	Mr Van Helvert asks what the committee thinks of what has been said about Minister Dijsselbloem and Minister Schultz. I would also like to ask Mr Van Helvert about the CDA's appreciation of what the committee thinks of former Minister Eurlings. There has been talk of deception of the Chamber by this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u80	At the CDA, all ministers and secretaries of state are placed along the same bar. So this doesn't make any difference to us. I always say: Willem van Oranje too, if he was responsible, would be placed along the same measuring bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u81	That's not an answer to my question. I asked how Mr Van Helvert qualified this statement by the committee regarding former Minister Eurlings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u82	Mrs. De Boer wants a conclusion? Okay. Today, we do not draw any conclusions about any Minister or Secretary of State. I see today's debate as a discussion with the committee. In it we can ask questions, get answers and form new insights. The debate on the inquiry between the cabinet and the Lower House is, in my view, the final debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u83	Mr. Chairman. I, too, begin by thanking the members of the committee and their supporters for the great work they have done. This is not always a thank-you job, because a survey often deals with circumstances where things have gone wrong. After all, parliamentary surveys are carried out on this subject. One of the things that immediately stands out is that at some point that Fyra, the V250, no longer drives. My first question to the committee is whether she knows what is happening to these trains. Are they still somewhere in Italy, or are they likely to be deployed again? So what actually happens to that equipment? Mr Dijsselbloem has been judged, but he has not been discussed. Doesn't the committee apply hearing and hearing again? How am I supposed to judge that? What is the situation with regard to the actual content of tenders? This is a mistake, both with regard to NS towards the State and with regard to AntalendBreda towards NS. How can the Chamber and the government better defend themselves against inappropriate or too rosy offers in such tenders? There is criticism of market forces. That criticism has even existed for a long time. But market forces are not just wrong. Mrs De Boer mentioned that as well. In the region there are very positive experiences with market forces. Do we not even have too little market power? Is it not true that the market is too limited? Shouldn't we look at that in another way? I would like to hear the committee's opinion on this. I would also like to hear the committee's opinion on merging, for example, ProRail and NS. Isn't it really like on the road, where you have a government that manages the infrastructure, and on the other hand freight transport, the private operators? Could the committee reflect on that comparison and why couldn't it be on track? Several ministers once said that a public invitation to tender was needed from Europe. That doesn't seem right. Would the committee like to go into that a little further and indicate how it sees it? And then I come to the criticism of Mr Timmer, the former President-in-Office of the NS. Others have pointed to it as well. Would the committee like to respond to this and can it address specifically the question raised by the NS on a secret report from 1992? My question to the committee is: does it know that report? Has she or has she not taken note of this or is this also for her news? Political differences of understanding about market forces may also have contributed to this failure. Is that a correct observation? Does the committee want to give its opinion on this too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-26.u84	The parliamentary committee of inquiry has listened carefully. I know from experience that that's quite a challenge. On Thursday we will continue this debate on the report.
