ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Turkish Ambassador and the Prime Minister. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. Last Tuesday, the attack on Atatürk Airport in Istanbul, one of the busiest airports in the world, spooked the world. At that time, hundreds of people were waiting in line for them to pass through the security tracks. Three men opened fire and detonated bombs. The number of deaths has now risen to 42; more than 240 people were injured. Again an attack, again many dead, in a place that for many Turkish Dutch people is more than a start or end point and more than a collection of suitcases. An airport has an emotional meaning for many of them. It is the place where children wave off their grandmother and grandmother and loved ones close each other again. On June 28, Atatürk Airport, like Zaventem, did not lose that innocence long before. A cowardly, cowardly act has taken away many beautiful memories. It has not been so long since we discussed the attacks in Brussels and Paris. Even then, during and just after the attacks, messages were circulating on the Internet and via social media: eyewitness statements of victims themselves, in fear, and of their families and loved ones, who desperately sought contact between hope and fear. Even then, the newspapers were full of pictures of streets and ambulances, the victims scattered over the asphalt. Sometimes under a white sheet, sometimes clearly recognizable. Even then, people had to learn to live with the pain of missing parents, children, lovers, neighbours or colleagues. And then I opened the plenary session with the words that the Netherlands was shocked and shocked by the horrible attacks. That repetition doesn't change the meaning of what we felt then and what we feel today. The shock doesn't get any less; rather the opposite. It gets under your skin, the thought that you're not really safe anywhere, in any public space, anywhere in the world. It sometimes seems as if this threat, as if extremism, terror and violence have become part of our reality, but we will always fight it. We will continue to repeat, with words, how it affects us. We remain convinced that you will find each other and fight each other in the debate, in an open and respectful dialogue. That is at the heart of our parliamentary democracy. The Netherlands and Turkey have a close relationship. Over 1 million Dutch tourists visit Turkey every year and hundreds of thousands of people of Turkish origin live in the Netherlands. For them, these days are days of uncertainty and sorrow. We sympathise with them and with Turkey, especially since it is not the first time that it has to do with violence. I wish Turkish society, and especially the victims and survivors, much strength in this difficult time. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I sent a message of sympathy to the President of the Turkish Parliament. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u2	Madam President. Indeed, we are once again considering a horrible terrorist attack, which cost the lives of dozens of innocent people and injured several hundred people. You mentioned the numbers. This time it was hit at Istanbul airport, again in Turkey. And once again it is cold to the heart when you think of all the grief, of all the suffering, despair and impotence among the people who are left behind. This never gets used to. This should never get used to. Our hearts and minds go out to the victims and their families, to the Turkish people, who, with more than 250 deaths in Turkey in the last year, appear to be in the front line of terrorism, and to all the Turkish Dutch, who are connected by family ties and personal friendships with Istanbul, Turkey and the people who live there. On behalf of the government, I have expressed our condolences to the Turkish Prime Minister Yildirim. At times like this, we stand side by side and form one front together with other countries. The extremists who commit such attacks make no difference, not between nationality and faith, not between children and adults, not between men and women. They only want one thing: to sow as much death and destruction as possible among ordinary people. Cruel, ruthless and without any compassion. Fear is their ultimate goal. There is only one response from us and from the entire international coalition, which also includes Turkey. Terrorist may not win. Terrorism will not be won. After all, humanity is always stronger than violence. I hope that that thought and all international support bring a beginning of comfort in these days of grief and mourning. So I wish all the next of kin a great deal of strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u3	I ask everyone to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u4	I'm suspending the meeting so you can convey your condolences to the ambassador.
