ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and give Mrs Dik-Faber the floor on behalf of the Christian Union as the first speaker. Speaking time is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. How do we leave the earth for our children and grandchildren? Will they receive the immense bill of our pollution and our greenhouse gas emissions on their plate? I'm afraid the answer is yes. By 2020, the Netherlands must have reduced CO emissions by at least 25%, but in the last year, CO emissions in our country grew by 4%. Why are we stalling with new measures after the climate agreement and the Urgenda case? Is the urgency sufficient to get through to the Trêveszaal? Let's invest in a clean economy. This is not only good for the living environment of our children and grandchildren, but also for their wallet. The Dutch Bank, big investors and banks; they all call for speed up the energy transition. The economic risks of a carbon bubble are enormous, while ambitious climate policies offer great export opportunities for Dutch companies. For 10 years, we have a system that has to price greenhouse gas emissions. That's the emissions trading system. However, the CO price of emission allowances is patheticly low, and it is impossible to believe that for a decade companies have become richer but the planet is poorer. The Christian Union wants a fair price for the costs of pollution and emissions. The Nederlandsche Bank argues for a bottom price for CO. Does the Minister also want to work towards this in the EU or with neighbouring countries? I also propose that the climate agreement be linked to the emissions trading system. Make the 1.5°C target, the maximum temperature increase, the starting point within ETS. Is that what the Minister wants? I am considering tabling a motion on this point. I also mention the energy agreement. It is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough to make the real transition to a climate-neutral economy. That really requires tightening up. 2020 is getting closer but the implementation of the Energy Agreement still has major gaps, especially in terms of energy savings in the built environment and in industry. The construction of windmills on land is a huge task, but badly needed in the energy transition. Three quarters of the Dutch provinces are not on schedule by wind on land. How does the Minister ensure that the 6,000 megawatts are made? How does he intend to ensure that the application of wind to land is justified, including consideration of acceptance and participation? We saw a worrying report on that today. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. At the request of the Chamber, the Minister will prevent the SDE+ subsidy for biomass from stopping the closure of coal plants. According to the Plan Bureau for the Environment, biomass can be used much more effectively in other sectors, such as the transport sector. Will the Minister also look at these cleaner alternatives and reconsider the use of biomass in coal-fired power stations? With the closure of coal power stations, will the Minister also block the extraction of residual heat from coal power stations? I am very much in favour of heat roundabouts, but not if they lead to the survival of coal plants. Heat projects should also be given priority over sustainable projects. On this point, too, I am considering tabling a motion. There is still much to gain from energy savings in the built environment. According to the landlords, the agreement to bring all rentals to energy label B in 2020 is not reached. What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? Almost six months ago, the Chamber in the Schouten c.s. motion. requested to develop a march route to zero on the meter for the full stock of social rental homes in 2035. Can the Minister give an update on that? What measures does the government take to achieve a fully energy-neutral housing stock on the housing market in 2035? Much is happening, but all subsidies that are now available for the housing market remain a drop on the glowing gas hob. We must dare to take much bigger steps. The time for small label jumps is over. Zero on the meter is the new standard. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with his colleague for Wonen and Rijksdienst the adaptation of the Building Decision so that all new buildings are built at some point in time as standard energy neutrally? On this point, too, I am considering tabling a motion. In addition to the coal-fired power stations, we still have a problem: the Borssele nuclear power plant. DELTA has had major financing problems. The Christian Union does not think compulsory separation of energy companies is a good idea as long as other European countries do not choose to do so. But apart from that, at DELTA we see major business problems and the shareholders are in favour of providing 200 million guarantees for the uneconomic nuclear power plant in Borssele. Should the loss-making plant remain in operation until 2033? Who pays the bill for this? The Minister always points to the responsibility of EPZ as an operator, but society will have to bear a large part of the costs. That EUR 200 million will not be the last guarantee needed, I fear. Moreover, decommissioning will cost half a billion, while COVRA only has 180 million available. Where does the minister want to get the money from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u3	It is now suggested that the closure of the Borssele nuclear power plant would be cheaper. On the basis of what information is this set up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u4	In any case, I see that we are going to incur a great deal of costs at the Borssele nuclear power plant. Either to keep the nuclear power plant open, with guarantees and so on, or to shut down the nuclear power plant. So the plant is a liability anyway. The Chamber has previously adopted motions on this matter. I would very much like us to have much more insight into this. I believe that the decision on Borssele was taken in 2006. That was ten years ago. I hope I can get the VVD on my side to see if we should reconsider a decision that was taken ten years ago. Is that decision still sustainable in the present time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u5	That sounds different than the plant should be shut down. It is important that the facts come to light. This means that we need to look very closely at the closure of the nuclear power plant. You don't just do that. You can't just turn the switch and then the nuclear power plant's out. There are a lot of contracts, for the long term. It also has to do with the questions of how we deal with waste and with new fuel rods. However, all these things have long been in the pipeline. In my opinion, closing the nuclear power plant in the short term is more expensive than keeping it open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u6	I understand very well that the VVD is hammering at the expense. I certainly do not find that unimportant, but the Christian Union also wants to look at the need to keep this nuclear power station open in the context of the overall energy package. In addition, the public support for nuclear energy is waning. So we certainly need to look at the costs, but we also need to look at the public support, the waste problem and the whole environmental side of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u7	Does the Christian Union not agree with GroenLinks that if we keep the nuclear power stations open, they should really be running at the most secure level? I think the VVD agrees. If we did that, Borssele alone would need another 200 million. The owners are already losing out. The electricity price is lower than the power price of that power plant. Doesn't Mrs. Dik think that's a reason to say you might want to close Borssele? If you have all the costs in mind, closing on the cost side might be even more advantageous than keeping it open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u8	I share Mrs Van Tongeren's words. I do not have all the maths on my paper here, but I see that both shutting down and keeping the nuclear power plant open costs a lot of money. The power plant is now losing out. There's a bail going on, and I'm afraid it's not the last one. I am not in favour of keeping the nuclear power plant open for a day longer than necessary if I am to add this to the social unrest and the waste problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u9	That's clear. Maybe ChristianUnion and GroenLinks can ask the Minister if we can get these figures clear, including the cost of evacuation plans, security plans, exercises and bringing it to the right level of security. I know it belongs to another minister, but as a Chamber, we may wish to have brought together all that information at one point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u10	I think it is an excellent proposal to put these questions to the Minister together. I come to the motions on the nuclear power plant. What about my adopted motion asking for a link with DELTA with the employment plans in the province of Zeeland? What does the future of the 1,800 employees look like? An arrested motion by GroenLinks and the Labour Party is also important. It stresses the national interest of Borssele and asks for sufficient space to be provided at the split-up to resolve the ownership and decommissioning of the Borssele nuclear power plant. There is also a motion by GroenLinks and the Christian Union which asks what the cost of taking over the legal and economic property of the nuclear power plant is. How's that going? Is nationalization an option for the minister? My last topic is PALLAS. The loans for the new PALLAS reactor in Petten raise many questions for my group. There is a "go/no go" moment in 2017, but does that justify these large amounts at the moment, already? We do not want waiting lists due to a shortage of medical radioisotopes, but is this the only solution? Alternatives are developing rapidly, especially cyclotron technology. Are reactors future-proof in the medical isotope market? Is there really a shortage later? What are the export opportunities? A number of European reactors will be withdrawn from operation from 2025. Apparently, the reactor is really needed, but isn't this technology going to be obsolete by then? I'd like to get a response from the Minister to these questions. We are on the losing side of history. It is inconceivable that we are making far too slow progress on one of the greatest issues of our time! We must stand on the other side today, on the side of the future: no more mortgages on future generations, but now action and political courage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mrs Dik has also paid attention to wind on land. In an earlier debate, I was told by Mrs Dik that in the north of the country I had too many spokes in wheels for the 6,000 megawatt wind on land, but now I hear her say something about residents who would have too little say in relation to wind on land. Has she changed her mind? I hear her own deputy in Drenthe saying that kind of thing. Does it have a new position in this area or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u12	No, absolutely not. I think that 6,000 megawatts should be landed, but I also think it is very important that there is support. Yesterday, the Environment Act was passed in the First Chamber. In this, the CDA and the Christian Union have established with a joint amendment that there must be acceptance and participation of local residents and that the desires and burdens must be shared fairly. I see that it is not going well in practice, while it is legally anchored. I'd like to put my finger on that. I do not want to interfere with the tasks that we have to accomplish with each other, because it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u13	But does Mrs Dik see a Gronings and Drents peat colonial area where these megawatts are achieved, but in a different mix and not only with very high wind turbines?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u14	No. We must consider how we can achieve the number of megawatts with wind energy. I also made the proposal to look at innovation in wind energy, so that we can do less with some turbines. We also need other technologies, such as sunshine and heat. We really need everything to achieve a clean energy supply. The SP says: as an alternative, we want to fill all these meadows with solar panels. However, my group does not think that this is an alternative. We do not want a struggle between energy and food in the rural area. Energy has a place in the form of wind. In addition, we must use all rooftops for Sun PV. We must use agricultural land for food. That goes well with wind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. The earth will survive climate change, but the big question we face together is: how do we keep the earth habitable for everyone on that earth? Fortunately, there are enormous opportunities to grow even cleaner and smarter, not only in Europe but also in all those other parts of the world where prosperity is still so low and where people simply want to live a decent life. We can grow so much smarter and greener. Companies are asking for that, too. That is why it is extremely important that we speed up this sustainability transition, not only in energy but also in raw materials. For the Netherlands, we have set the targets in the energy agreement, but we have also known for a long time that it is difficult to achieve them. That is why the parties to the energy agreement are working on an intensification package. The Minister says that this means that all the objectives of the energy agreement are within reach, but the passing of the first list by the Energy Research Centre Netherlands (ECN) does not yet lead to that conclusion. What additional measures for the intensification package does the Minister intend to add to that list? When are we gonna get the credit for that? In any event, only part of the measures, which were not included in the energy agreement, were taken into account in the previous accounts. I urge the Minister to look at a realistic bandwidth. If we are going to calculate what these measures are gonna do, let us not get back to the top of what could create potential, because then we have a good chance that we will end up cheating again and that we will not achieve those objectives. So let's do some extras, because otherwise we still have a lot to do after 2020. If it happens to be more profitable, then we're bacon buyers, but otherwise we'll only have a problem. My particular concern is with the innovation objectives of the energy agreement. We are still seeing very little progress on this point. It is not on the agenda separately, it will be discussed even more extensively when dealing with the Car Letter, but there is, of course, a lot to do in the transport sector as well. The same applies to housing, on which I believe there will be a debate with Minister Blok next week. There are also many possibilities in the built environment. We will also discuss on that occasion the question of how we can make as many houses as possible more sustainable with these 100 million. So my call for the review of the Energy Agreement is above all: let us take realistic assumptions as to what additional measures might be possible and let us ensure that, with the sum of those realistic assumptions, we come up with a package that we are going to achieve. I also hope for warm support from the VVD for this position. I'm coming to the coal power stations. I would like to thank the Minister for his letter on how he is going to implement the motion to phase out the coal-fired power stations. Can he give a more precise explanation of how this process is going to take place in the coming months, which parties are present, on the basis of which data scenarios are being developed and when the Court is involved? How will the Minister calculate the cost of financial compensation and how will we ensure that this calculation is now fully transparent? That is a very important point, because I think that was where the first coal deal went wrong. In a beautiful vision entitled Biomass 2030, the government concludes that biomass should be used above all high-quality and above all contribute in sectors where hardly alternative cost-effective other sustainable sources are available. I think that is a very sensible approach. Let us use such a valuable raw material as biomass only where, for example, wind or sun cannot easily supply that energy. So we should not go to low-grade energy generation for the use of biomass. But until 2023, we're going to put 4 billion right in there. The government says that's what we need to get that chain going. In that reasoning, I do miss one element: what is the link between that wheelbarrow with pallets running into the coal plant and the moment we start applying it in the chemical industry? There's a hole in that. That valley of death needs to be bridged. I would therefore very much like to know what the Minister has to say. If that's his vision, how does he get from A to B? I do not yet see this in the 2030 vision, which will be crucial to achieving the objectives set out in it. I've made the suggestion before to see if you can go to an ingrowth path of cascaded biomass in the substrate. The chemical industry is very keen to get to work on this. Energy companies would also like to see how they can contribute to this transition. Let us please try to give that structural boost to the strengthening of the Dutch economy with the 4 billion. We can do that, but then we'll just have to do a little bit smarter than we do now. Many innovations in the field of renewable energy come from the ground up because there is no good incentive framework or because there is no proper support, let me go a little bit wider than just subsidies. We had a very interesting conversation with the company Torregas; I know that the minister has been there too. I'm not saying this to specifically highlight that company, but there are companies working on the greening of our gas mix. That is an extremely important development. We know that the answers to this will be crucial for our energy transition in the coming years. If we have to mention a few areas that are important, this is about greening gas, storage and the transition from the chemical industry to sustainable raw materials. We talked about Avantium last week. I'm afraid this is another kind of company that says it's leaving, because it can't go through the development it would like to go through in the Netherlands. I believe that, like the Minister, I would find that a very missed opportunity and a very unfortunate one. I would therefore ask the Minister to give some thought to the areas that have just been mentioned. How can we, in particular, ensure that companies and jobs in the Netherlands are maintained in the areas where we know there are huge issues? They could also be wonderful export companies, because they make this technology possible. How's the Minister handling that? Is he prepared to come up with some kind of plan of approach or strategy for this kind of good prospects for the Dutch economy? Wind at sea must make an important contribution to renewable energy. I would like to thank the Minister for his willingness to carry out a new survey of people's concerns about windmills off the coast. I'm getting on land by wind now. I have to go through it a little faster, because eight minutes doesn't seem to be as long as I had hoped. The situation with regard to windmills on land is very difficult. I have asked the Minister before to try to obtain as much support as possible - you never have 100% support - and any kind of energy also has its price - to work well with area coordinators. The minister says he is going to do this and that he is going to involve the municipalities in the appointment of such an area coordinator, because they are speaking for the people. In practice, we see that there is light in between. Will the Minister, when he talks to the municipalities about this, at least include in the job profile of those people that they really need to have the confidence of the people? For this group we want to work with such an area coordinator: we want to take people and see if we can use their ideas properly. In Brabant we see at the 380 kV that we have a lot of positive experiences with that involvement and using the ideas. Let's see if we can do this in Drenthe. Is it not possible, within the set objectives, to give provinces a few months to see if alternative search areas are an interesting direction of thought? If it isn't, it isn't. That 6,000 megawatts is going to be there as far as D66 is concerned; I say that in the like of the Christian Union. All the provinces must contribute to this, but where we can do something for the population, we should try to do so. For Drenthe, I would like to mention health concerns in particular. I believe that many of these questions have already been answered in the research reports, but I urge the Minister, if there are major questions about certain health aspects, to try to answer those questions clearly for those people in particular. If you are not only concerned about the price of your home but also about your health, that counts extra heavy. That also makes it more difficult to get through such a process well. We have the ambition to grow cleaner and smarter. I think that's possible. I believe that the energy agreement and all parties can take steps in this direction, but we can move a step faster with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. I am covering for my colleague Klever, who is a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs. I'm afraid she's indisposed. The PVV is a fierce opponent of the cabinet. The same applies to energy policy, which makes our energy supply more expensive and unreliable and creates a great deal of resistance for our people. The PVV is the only party against this energy policy, but fortunately millions of Dutch are against it. Ten years ago, many Dutch people probably never thought about their energy supply, while now thousands of people are awake from that energy supply. What's your house worth if you have a windmill almost in your backyard or if you wake up with the 200 meter windmills of the neighbor? You used to go on coffee with that neighbor, but now you don't even say goodbye to him, because he built a windmill in his garden. Therefore, this energy agreement does not bridge the gap between the administrative elite and the local population. Whole villages are disrupted by it and people who used to be happy with each other sometimes literally stand each other up to life. One becomes dormantly rich from that wind turbine on its ground while the other doesn't close a eye anymore. With the planned massive roll-out of wind turbines on land, resistance among the population is increasing. The PVV supports this resistance of many population groups, of course non-violent and democratic, as it always says. This cabinet doesn't build bridges, it makes a gaping hole in our society. We also see this split in energy policy in the energy bill. There is a gap between a small group of profiteers and a large group paying the bill. The latter is demonstrated by the National Energy Exploratory (NEV). If you are unable to invest in solar panels or residential insulation, an average of €360 more will be paid for the same energy over five years than at present, as much as 20% of the total amount of energy that is available to you, while the estimated 1 million households that have solar panels in 2020 will contribute virtually nothing to the sustainable energy transition they want because they can dispose of it. The PVV has therefore previously tabled an amendment to abolish this transfer of wealth from poor to rich, the so-called netting arrangement. Unfortunately, a majority of the Chamber maintained this canal belt subsidy. I hope that my colleagues now recognise that this is an unfair and unsustainable situation. Don't you think it's time someone paid for scattering those billions of windmill subsidies? Can the Minister clarify the future of the netting scheme and future tariffs for storage of renewable energy? Or is this question only answered when evaluating the energy agreement? In addition to affordability and support for our energy supply, its reliability is also under pressure. The large subsidised increase in wind and solar energy in particular presents our network operators with the huge task of maintaining the reliability of our network. TNO has warned about this, among other things. How do we deal with that? Is this the consequence of a sustainable future? It may sound absurd, but in other countries it is very common for the power to go out sometimes, but we do not want that in the Netherlands? I move on to the Labour Party's plan to shut down the coal power stations and at the same time replace all petrol cars with electric cars and that in ten years' time. Now it is good that MPs sometimes dream, but some dreams I prefer not to hear, especially those of Mr Vos and Mr Samsom. Apparently they do not realize that one electric car consumes about one and a half times the electricity of an entire household. The Green Court of Auditors has calculated how much electricity is needed for this: about 35,000 gigawattuur. This equals about 12,000 additional windmills. I wonder where the Labour Party will place it. So our energy supply is under pressure from all sides. The worst part is that this is completely unnecessary. Driven by climate hysteria and Brussels dictatorships, all parties, from VVD to GroenLinks, agree that it is necessary to throw 13 billion in sustainability subsidies again this year, to commit 13 billion. This is in addition to the existing commitments of 13 billion. In total, we are about to talk about 26 billion in commitments which the members of this Chamber entrust to their successors. This money is largely spent on outdated techniques such as windmills and the burning of wood. The PVV doesn't choose this. In her opinion, it is much more sensible to rely on the innovative power of our business. We still have an affordable and reliable energy supply. Let us cherish it, while in the meantime we give science the opportunity to develop really new techniques. Techniques that do not make our energy supply more unreliable or expensive, but rather simpler and cheaper. These techniques are not yet available, but developments are moving very quickly. Therefore, the PVV does not want to commit to one technique or to the electric car. It's wiser not to do this. I would like to mention once again a promising technique, thorium. Large energy consumers such as India, China and the United States feel the same way; they even want to have the first power station in operation in ten years' time. We in Petten recently started a thorium study. Can the Minister tell us what the situation is and what possibilities there are for catching up with the other countries? I'm rounding up. This cabinet is destroying our country with its energy policy. Under the guise of greening, it makes our energy consumption increasingly expensive and unreliable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u17	The PVV fraction presents thorium as the egg of Columbus. However, I also hear the PVV Group hammering on the cost of energy. I think thorium is incredibly precious. I do not know the amounts, but we are talking about hundreds of millions and perhaps billions of euros in the construction of a thorium plant. Is the PVV aware of this and how does it view it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u18	The technique used with thorium is a promising new technique. We do not yet know what it will cost in the future, but it is promising. We'll have to wait and see. We cannot therefore anticipate the costs. Of course research costs money, but this research is done in many parts of the world. China is very committed to this. Not only the thorium-based technology is promising, there are other new techniques in the field of nuclear energy. We think we should wait for this. These techniques are promising. All those windmills that this cabinet and Mrs Dik-Faber want to build now and with which they are going to ruin our country, and which are also very expensive, could cost us prosperity. We don't want that. We therefore say: wait and do not rely on one technique. Don't put everything on the electric car or everything on the windmill. Let us just look at what is happening in the world. Be sensible and do not enter it until it is profitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u19	The latter isn't going to introduce it until it's cost-effective. With thorium, it won't soon be the case because of the incredibly high price attached to it. Research costs money, but in building a thorium plant, we are really talking about billions. As far as I know, the first thorium plant can't be built until 2040. Then we've been so many years. Then we must have the energy transition long behind us, mustn't we? Does the PVV share my view that for these reasons, costs and time, we should focus on other innovations and that the technology used with thorium is not the most appropriate technology?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u20	No, I absolutely don't share that. On the contrary, I believe that we should not introduce techniques until they are profitable. I don't know if thorium will be profitable until 2040. That can also be the case much earlier. I have already said that other countries think they can achieve this more quickly. We will indeed have to wait and see. The same goes for the electric car. One day it will be quite profitable and can compete with a petrol or diesel car. To enforce this now through billions of grants, which the ordinary working man can pay, is very unwise. We praise ourselves from the market. The Dutch business community must compete with the whole world, including China, also with America. Mrs Dik-Faber's ambition can break us down ugly and will cost us a lot of prosperity. I'd like to warn you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. Today's world gives us a lot of worries, but also opportunities. I want to start with one of those odds. I've been working on the electric car for a while and a climate rally for Paris. I got a week's trial run. As a result, on the road to clean transport, I have written a ten-point plan on electric driving. Various members of the government are thinking about how to do this, by the rulers of Finance and of I and M, but also by this minister. Because the electric car is good, as I say to Mr Madlener, who has unfortunately left the room, in order to reduce the dependence of countries supplying oil, countries on which Mr Madlener does not want to be dependent either. The electric car is quiet. Mr Madlener spoke of noisy windmills. Well, the electric car is quiet and keeps the air clean. I'd like to hand over this ten-point plan to Minister Kamp. A copy will be distributed to all colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u22	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u23	I would like to respond to my colleague from GroenLinks, who now suddenly embraces the electric car. I have had debates with her on the car for many years; her car had to get off the road and she didn't want to build roads. Now she shows up with the electric car. They need roads, don't they? Why is she always so against building roads? Those electric cars she's coming up with, they have to drive somewhere, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u24	Perhaps Mr Madlener has missed a few things, but that is understandable. My very first car plan dates back to 2013. Then this minister also came out, because I had collected five electric cars on the Square to show what the technique of the future is. GroenLinks is a party for public transport, with additional, where necessary, cars and taxis. GroenLinks especially wants clean air and space in the big cities. You can reach them with electric bikes and electric scooters, but also with electric cars and electric taxis. I have been advocating this for a long time. At the time, the PVV also had an invitation to the electric car rally in the run-up to the climate debate in Paris. Unfortunately, at the time, no one from the PVV had gone or attended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u25	GroenLinks continues to frustrate the car. Everyone better get on the bus. The electric car will only be accessible for a small elite. And if I look closely, it's probably a very large part of a GroenLinks elite.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u26	Those are the standard blamings from the PVV. I don't really know if I should go into that. Let Mr Madlener read the plan, because it contains an attempt to do so. There's gonna be a lot of cars coming out of the hybrid or electric car lease, in which the business driver drove. GroenLinks wants to make sure that these cars are also available to ordinary people and women. That is why we are going to make proposals next week in the debate on the Car Letter. Perhaps Mr Madlener would like to join us in getting those cars more within the reach of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u27	I would like to thank GroenLinks for this plan; it is always good to see that colleagues have put their work into an extensive proposal. In the summary I read that before the summer recess the transport part must be fully worked out in hard agreements and that the Minister must come up with binding rules if that is not possible. What's GroenLinks thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u28	In my opinion, D66 and GroenLinks often agree on transport, but in some respects they do not. Driving accounts is a way of achieving energy savings on the road. GroenLinks has been in favour of this for a long time. That could be such a compelling measure that we could actually enforce energy saving. A less far-reaching measure could be to reduce the 130 km/h allowed here and there to 120 km/h. Because of this 130 km/h there is a lot more fuel being used, while this is hardly time-saving. Another thing for which we have often been raised together is to save energy by letting 80 km/h drive on ring roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u29	In that case, I don't see the link with more electric cars very well. These are well-known proposals, but how does everything contribute to the further growth of electric cars? This is an action plan for electric driving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u30	It is, of course, a total package for road traffic. The Nieuwe Rijden, point 9, is a technique that is very useful for both electric transport and other car transport. A lower speed limit is also important at the moment, because electric cars do not yet have such a huge range. I had the chance to test it myself for a week. If you're quietly driving 100 km/h on the parts where you're allowed 130 km/h, because you're saving your battery, that's not a pleasant feeling at all in some places. If that speed limit is lower, then the cheaper current cars too are not everyone can afford a Tesla more at a normal level of ease of use. That could be one of the possibilities, but if D66 has other proposals, GroenLinks is always open to them. It's a matter of the chicken and egg with those electric cars. You need loading infrastructure, people want to have the courage to buy a car. There must be enough cars, because otherwise people will not put up loading posts, as I discovered in my practice week. If you ask if you can park somewhere electric, you get the answer that almost never is asked for and that they have not yet built it. Also in our own garage we only have two places. I would like to challenge this minister to be the first ruler to drive a full electric service car. I can see he's shaking his head. No, it's gonna be an Audi, I think. But perhaps this minister could encourage one of his colleagues, so that the bridge to the future is also made in the cabinet. What we propagate for others may also be good for our own rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u31	BMW makes electric cars for citizens and rulers, but BMW also makes hydrogen cars for citizens and rulers. I therefore have the following question for GroenLinks. Does that mean the Minister can drive a hydrogen car? Or, in our bureaucratic jargon: is Mrs Van Tongeren for energy-neutral exhaust emission reduction or is she for the electric car?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u32	Those were two questions, handy wrapped in one. I would also be very happy if a minister were to drive a hydrogen car seriously, but that roll-out is even further away. If electric transport is already a problem, then hydrogen transport is already a problem. In order to do so, a vehicle has to drive behind the ministerial car to ensure that it is always charged, because the amount of hydrogen fuel stations in the Netherlands is even lower than the number of points for electric charging. So I would be very happy with both if a minister would use them. I know that Minister Schultz drives both a hydrogen car and a self-driving car and an electric car from time to time. In general, I think that at the moment the best chance for the Netherlands lies in a combination of measures such as stimulating own solar panels, possibly stabilising the energy grid by using the storage of batteries, and allowing multiple brands to have more affordable models of electric cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u33	I appreciate the energy plan of GroenLinks. I note, however, that our views on this point are somewhat different. For example, before the Acts: my colleague D66 has just whispered to me that Secretary of State Dijksma of the Labour Party is driving a hydrogen car.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u34	Well, well, well. This is how we share knowledge in the Lower House. I'm just gonna give you a quick response. Another reason why GroenLinks considers electric transport to be highly competitive is employment. That was also in the plan that we launched in 2013. We want to encourage more of a manufacturing industry in the Netherlands, and we have every opportunity to do so with the electric car. We have in Eindhoven the TU Eindhoven, VDL and the DAF factory that can make electric trucks. Tesla has expansion plans there. We in the Netherlands are also particularly good in the entire supply infrastructure of electronics and ICT, and the apps that are built there. I am going to ask him about this in 2013 and I am going to ask him about it in 2013 to see if this can be promoted more. At that time, the Minister replied positively. So I would also like to know what is going on with this attempt to turn the South of the Netherlands into a Green Electric Car Valley. Then I'll continue with my speech. Others have also said that in the most favourable scenario, with the intensification package on a number of points, the energy agreement would be sufficient to put it in order. One of the questions GroenLinks has is the following. We read in the media that the energy performance label for businesses and the agro-industry is being rolled out and that the inspection also has a lot of e-mail traffic on it, but that it mainly concerns requests for postponement. Is that right? How much delay do the companies get? Is enforcement coming along? Is there sufficient enforcement capacity? I hear from some of my colleagues in the country that there are only a few people available for it and that it is very difficult to enforce the Environmental Management Act which, as we all know, has existed for a very long time and simply needs to be enforced. What about the list of compulsory measures? Does that work well and does it work well with that? How's that working out for you? The industry has until 1 May 2016 to come up with a list of promising savings projects itself. This should bring together 9 petajoule over the existing obligations. Where are we with that? Can you do that? Is the picture as rosy as that of the intensification package? My next point is Europe in relation to emissions trading. Does the Minister share with GroenLinks that it is really crazy that Tata Steel and Shell each made about 400 million dollars in ETS, while those companies still do not comply with the Environmental Management Act? Or are these numbers wrong? Does the Minister intend to reclaim from these windfall profit companies, which are unearned profits that have been thrown into their laps, some 400 million each, in the form, for example, of fast investment in energy saving, what they should do from the law anyway? It is said that the steel and cement sectors compete worldwide. Bureau Ecofys, and perhaps others, has made plans to put these sectors together worldwide and force them to jointly save energy. Is the Minister for such a plan? Is this encouraged in a European context? In their own countries, these companies are all asking for a tax reduction, but they are still not taking those energy savings measures. Wouldn't it be the way out of the race to the bottom that you force them to sit together all over the world? Other spokesmen have also said the necessary things about wind on land. I have looked them up and brought them all with me: since 2010, GroenLinks, regularly together with other parties, has filed 12 motions to speed up wind on land. Now that this does not seem to work in time in about eight provinces, I invite the Minister to look at all these ideas once again and hopefully take over some of them. I'm going through some of them very quickly: banning super-statutory requirements and transferring SDE+ funds, because not all projects succeed. Furthermore, I mention the use of places for which there is local support, but where the province is holding back, such as the port of Amsterdam. We are now asking for an opt-in scheme to enable these local projects. The very first motion I tabled, together with the CDA, was about the construction of windmills on or near dikes. It seems to be possible now, but it still doesn't happen. There are many more motions, so come shop there, I'll tell the minister. I agree with the Christian Union's comments on nuclear power plants. This must certainly be mapped out. I would also like to answer the question as to why the Minister continues to put tax money into the project in Petten, when there are no private investors and is bubbling up from the business case that we are dealing with a new DAF, Fokker or Verolme: at the moment when a company is no longer viable, we are still spending tax money on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u35	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u36	I suggest Mrs Van Tongeren finish her sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u37	Are we going to put that money in there and what about the consultation with the province of Zeeland and the municipality about the future of the Borssele nuclear power station?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u38	I'll come back to Petten, because GroenLinks gets over that pretty easily. A third of the world's isotopes for the treatment and research of cancer come from them. Does Mrs Van Tongeren now say on behalf of GroenLinks: close Petten, and we will see?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u39	The VVD also knows that GroenLinks doesn't say that. The debate on medical isotopes has been going on for three years. GroenLinks said this year: because the price of isotopes from Petten was artificially low, because of the public money in it, there was always a market for it. Mrs Dik also explained: there are techniques, such as the cyclotron, that allow you to make most medical isotopes in the hospital on the spot. In Canada, a large planned nuclear reactor, which was also intended for medical isotopes, was not built because it was being developed. If this were viable with a business model behind it, there would have been private investors who had at least put out a first sense of feeling. There aren't any. This isn't a government job anymore. It needs to be picked up by market players. That's what the VVD supported. However, there is no interest in the market and that can be explained, because the market is shifting to local and much safer production. That's why GroenLinks says: the province of Noord-Holland didn't want to put that last 14 million into it either, so think now before we put more public money into a project that is currently not viable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u40	Finally, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u41	It's pretty easy to report that. What you create is uncertainty, especially with a very vulnerable group, with people waiting for it. If we have no certainty about this, I find it too easy to say that one third of the world's total need for isotopes will be eliminated and we will see what the innovation will produce. This has to be proven and can be widely applied. One really needs to be able to work with it. I imagine that investors are getting more and more nervous when we talk about nuclear energy and core activities in this Chamber every time and say that we distance ourselves from it. That makes an investor very nervous. I understand that this creates unrest and that people say: I will not invest in it. Then it becomes a little chicken egg story and creates a big risk to the isotopes, while in principle it can be done in a very good and safe way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u42	Short response, Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u43	Perhaps the VVD and GroenLinks together can ask the Minister whether the transition to producing cyclotrons can be properly mapped and whether the remaining needs can be covered by existing nuclear power plants. Then we know the answer. If the VVD and GroenLinks ask the Minister together, we will probably get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u44	Let me leave the question to GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u45	Are you going to finish, Mrs. Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u46	I would be sorry if the VVD was not interested in the Minister's response to the cyclotron market. I'm gonna finish up. In my last 42 seconds, I would like to know about the visit to Shell, organised by the EU Presidency. Shell wrings himself in every corner to say it wasn't their idea. Then whose idea was it? As far as biomass is concerned, I would like to join with all of D66's questions. Why do we not have a sustainability framework for all raw materials and are we just looking at biomass? I should also like to know, perhaps, that question should be passed on to Minister Schippers why people in a radius of 100 kilometres around Petten and Delft do not receive iodine pills, while people around other nuclear power stations do. Are we sure that the power stations in Petten and Delft never will have a problem? GroenLinks does not want to shift major problems in climate and energy to future generations, but to start creating a clean and green future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you to Mrs Van Tongeren for a good contribution. The biomass wasn't so much covered. That was also due to her enthusiasm for her electric adventure. I want to ask her something anyway. She and my colleague, Mr Vos, tabled an important motion on biomass reform some time ago. Of course, there's a divinity in that. Is she satisfied with the way in which the Minister responded to that motion? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u48	I would be most satisfied if this cabinet were to re-introduce the coal tax and ensure that cleaner gas plants in the Netherlands could operate. Then we're gonna lose that whole biomass-up story. We should then carry out the D66 motion and phase out coal power stations in the Netherlands, just as we do in the countries around us. That is the future view of GroenLinks. Every time we try to push, pull and tickle the Minister to take a step that way. In any event, according to the motion for a resolution, there should not be the situation in which this subsidy is granted and which then frustrates the fact that a coal power plant can close down. I think this is a first step in the right direction, but of course it is far from a major step towards a clean energy supply for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u49	Finally, Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u50	I would have expected Mrs Van Tongeren to comment on the letter sent by the Minister following that motion. Otherwise, it's gonna be a little barking and not biting. The Minister, of course, is also trying to deal with this motion from his point of view in a way that suits him best. I actually expected him to do more work on that. Or is it just a lack of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u51	I did not read three pages of my text. It is true: I always have too much enthusiasm to bring things to light. GroenLinks considers this a very important problem. We really think it's crazy that you're being oversubsidised by coal power stations, so that we're actually keeping coal power stations running to burn forests, which in turn we're subsidising. We would rather see that end today than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr. Chairman. Today I am replacing my honourable colleague Agnes Mulder. She could have said the following. First of all, I would like to say that we are having this debate with the Minister of Energy, who is responsible for energy policy, but not for monitoring nuclear installations. The CDA is concerned about the nuclear power plants in Belgium and about the joint supervision of these power stations, on which the Minister of Infrastructure would agree with the Belgians, agreements which seem not to be there yet. We will ask questions about this in general consultation on 12 April. The CDA stands for an independent and sustainable energy mix. Nuclear energy is part of that as far as we are concerned. We can see that the Netherlands has a diverse and good nuclear knowledge structure, and thus knowledge of the whole chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u53	I see Mr Vos wants to interrupt. I propose that Mr Geurts continue his input before interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u54	This is possible because of the diversity of companies, strong universities and a government that takes care of this and adequately monitors safety. This is what the CDA wants to keep, even for the future. For medical applications, energy generation and research, our nuclear knowledge infrastructure is of national importance. A more important pillar in this is also the research reactor in Petten. The CDA therefore fully supports the Minister's decision to make a second tranche available to PALLAS together with the province of North Holland. The CDA hopes that those responsible for PALLAS will complete the business case and that research and development of medical isotopes will continue in the Netherlands. This is not only good for our knowledge and employment, but it also contributes to the health of our fellow human beings. Nuclear energy and the development of this technology should not be excluded in the eyes of the CDA, especially in view of the very low CO emissions towards the future. We get about 95% of our energy from fossil and nuclear energy can certainly contribute to an independent and reliable energy supply in the future, without CO emissions. The CDA wants a rapid package of measures to further reduce CO emissions. At the beginning of 2015, my colleague Agnes Mulder asked for the evaluation of the energy agreement to begin. Despite the views expressed in the energy agreement and the fine words of the PvdA, we are still waiting for measures to be taken in this area of this cabinet. Does the Minister expect to send to the Chamber the evaluation of the Energy Agreement, the interdepartmental policy investigation CO reduction and the implementation of the Vos motion on research into the implementation of the Urgenda case in May or early June? Is a decision also taken on a number of measures in the course of these investigations? It would also be useful to look at incentive measures that promote the power of plants and soil to absorb CO from the air. CO can be absorbed by increasing the organic dust content in the soil and by stimulating long-term crops. Are we also looking at opportunities at the moment to increase the absorption capacity of our natural wealth? The CDA will examine the Minister's proposals to reduce CO, based on their contribution to innovation, employment and support. With regard to support for the energy transition, the CDA wants to look more closely at the decision-making and participation of residents. The CDA has asked for this more often. Unfortunately, the need for this was not always recognised by the Ministry. The evaluation of the code of conduct on wind energy, carried out on behalf of the Dutch Wind Energy Association, now shows that it can be much better and that the Empire and provinces are important. Is the Minister prepared to respond to the recommendations of the Code of Conduct? The report recommends that governments also participate and become co-responsible for the Code of Conduct, which was also requested earlier in 2014 in an adopted motion by my colleague Agnes Mulder. The CDA wants a new code of conduct, in cooperation with more stakeholders, such as the Dutch Association of Survivors Wind turbines, the Association of Eigen Huis and public authorities, to be introduced to anchor the participation plan in the new Environmental Act. Is the Minister prepared to work on this division of responsibilities and responsibilities and burdens in the energy dialogue? As we all know, in Drenthe the communication and participation process for wind energy could have been much better. Many residents have great concerns about the wind farm that the minister wants to continue. Therefore, it is now important that all views are taken seriously. The D66 Group has asked for this in its contribution. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Yesterday I saw in the NRC that the province of Drenthe is threatening to stop cooperating in the reception of asylum seekers and the placing of windmills when the prison of Esserheem in Venhuizen closes. Can the Minister respond to the King Tichelaar's statement? From the beginning, the CDA resisted the installation of windmills just off the Dutch coast. At first the costs may be lower, but ultimately the costs are high, because it is our free view of the North Sea. The Minister states in his letter that he will give the municipalities more insight into the differences in the costs of the three variants. I would like a letter from the Minister with a detailed overview. Can he provide the Court with an intelligible overview which includes depreciation periods and costs, such as construction costs, subsidy costs, construction costs, network connection costs, development costs, etc., for these three variants?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u55	I see Mrs Van Tongeren at the interrupting microphone, but earlier Mr Jan Vos stood there and I kept it a little away. But I see there is no objection to her interrupting now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u56	I can wait if you think there's too much interference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u57	No, it's fine. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u58	Does the CDA still stand for the full and timely implementation of the energy agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u59	That is what the CDA has said in the past, and that is what it says now. The energy agreement stands. We must be careful not to break down all kinds of things. So that is what we are in favour of. I've also heard the number of 6,000 megawatts, but there's got to be a basis for that. That is what we have always said. It has to be done with the participation of the environment. I just heard the SP say in a discussion with the Christian Union that it might be possible with solar panels. Don't let us put solar panels in the meadow and chase the cow out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u60	In the Wind on Land Monitor we see that eight of the provinces probably won't make it in time. Then what is the CDA's solution to make sure this does happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u61	I have just indicated that there will have to be support for it. If things really don't go, things really don't go. Then we just have to look again. We have just said, and in the past too, that the evaluation of the energy agreement should simply be carried out. Then this kind of thing will come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u62	I think it was about a year ago that Mr Buma, CDA group chairman, suddenly called out something about nuclear energy. Since then, I have heard the CDA's position regularly. Mr Geurts spoke about reliability and security of supply. But there is also a third element, a third pillar of Dutch energy policy, namely the price. Can he tell me what the price paid in the United Kingdom for the construction of the new nuclear power station there is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u63	I've been reading pieces for a day and a half, but I haven't seen this in those pieces. I'm very curious if there's any MP here who knows that amount at all. At least I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u64	I'm sure Mrs. Van Veldhoven knows. It's 11.4 cents per kilowatt hour. This has been corrected for inflation for 35 years. Eventually, you end up at a cost of 35 cents per kilowatt hour. I am asking this because wind energy at sea, Mr Geurts, is a less strong supporter of it at the moment costs 10.3 cents per kilowatt hour. A park for this is currently being tendered in Denmark. The price of nuclear energy is therefore rising from 11.4 cents to 35 cents per kilowatt hour over the next 35 years, while the price of wind energy has fallen by 18 cents to 10.4 cents. Then why is the CDA such a supporter of nuclear energy? I think that's just throwing money over the head.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u65	As a CDA, we always argue that you need an energy mix, not just nuclear energy, as Mr Vos of the PvdA Group is trying to frame. No, it's the mix, the composition of some things together. It takes a lot of electricity for the plan the PvdA launched. I just heard numbers: there should be 12,000 or 20,000 windmills to realize that. I am very curious how the PvdA Group intends to organise this, especially when there is no wind. All the cows are out of the meadow because of the solar panels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u66	Let me first say that I very much appreciate Mr Geurts' willingness to take over his colleague's debate. There are many technical aspects to it. The way he does this, I really appreciate it. I have a question about the nuclear power plant, something that has been going on in his party for a long time. Mr Geurts is talking about the mix. You know that the sun doesn't always shine and the wind doesn't always blow, but a nuclear power plant is the most difficult thing to regulate. The wind is not regulated and such a nuclear power plant is difficult to regulate. Why, then, does the CDA opt for a nuclear power plant instead of a green gas or renewable biomass power plant which is relatively easy to regulate? This allows you to respond to the fact that it is blowing one day and not the other day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u67	I believe that Mrs van Veldhoven, on behalf of the D66 Group, is yet another reason why we should be in favour of nuclear energy: nuclear energy is always there, nuclear energy is reliable. Many other forms of energy are less reliable. Let the debate not focus solely on nuclear energy. It is part of our mix for the reliability of the energy supply in the Netherlands. What is this, 99,999...? The Minister knows the figure, because we also had this discussion as a result of 380 kV. I hope that all the parties here in the House of Representatives will also stand for that reliability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u68	That reliability is a basis for everyone, but the question is how to achieve it in a cost-effective way. I thought that this was also an argument for the CDA and also an important reason not to want certain other solutions. Everyone is going for reliability, but the question is whether you're going to realize that you actually already know that you often have over-production of electricity that you might throw away, which is worthless, while you can also opt for a power station that you can adjust according to your needs. We can't do that with a nuclear power plant. So that means making costs if it isn't necessary. Why does the CDA choose to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u69	I feel that we are getting a little closer together now that it is recognised that nuclear energy can make an important contribution to the energy mix. We can still discuss the percentage, but it can make a contribution to solar energy, wind energy and so on. That is important and we will continue to do so as CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u70	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u71	We are aware that the transition to disinvestment puts our economy at a disadvantage and drives households at high costs. I am talking about closing down Europe's newest and most economical coal plants, while less than 1,000 kilometres away, in Poland, two thirds of the country runs on more than 30-year-old coal plants. They're really polluting! Let us make European agreements on this and let us not be naive that we can solve it alone in the Netherlands. In the next two years, five plants will be shut down, and that's a big deal. We call on the Minister to agree to phase out coal power stations from the 1990s at no extra cost. I hope the Minister will respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u72	I'd like to zoom in on the coal plants. The CDA does want to keep the newly built coal plants open, as I draw up from the words of Mr Geurts. Now the Chamber has made another ruling. I am very curious to see how the CDA is looking at exploiting the residual heat from these coal plants. I call the heat roundabout in the Westland. What's the CDA's vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u73	In Mrs Dik's speech, this just happened. I am, of course, very afraid that the end-users of this heat will be taken into account when they use that heat. I think we should have a good discussion about this in the Chamber. This is without prejudice to the fact that at some point this heat is there and that we must also use it sustainably. I assume that the Christian Union agrees with the CDA that we should not use it in the air. But again, I am very afraid that the growers who use this heat will soon be paid for by society by the fact that they are going to use the energy that is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u74	I am pleased with this answer, because Mr Geurts is going into the very point I wanted to make. He is obviously also aware that the producers in the Westland do not need this residual heat at all, because it is linked to a source of fossil energy. So the CDA says: we want to use heat sustainably; let's not throw it away, but let's at least settle it in such a way that the use of heat should never be an excuse to keep that coal plant open longer? Can I understand Mr Geurts like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u75	That's a step too far for me. I think we need to look very closely at how this heat is produced, but if it is there, it must also be used sustainably. I just heard Mrs Dik say that growers are not waiting for it. Well, they're not waiting for their products to be downgraded because they're using that heat, but they do need that heat in their production process. If they can get it in another way, I think we should all support it. I think we have been clear in our statements on the motions for resolutions on this subject on the core question of the Christian Union whether we are simply opposed to that coal power station.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mr. Chairman. When my colleague Van Tongeren and I started discussing the clustering of debates a few months ago, we did not know where it would end, but I must say that I am very satisfied with this to date. I think we're all getting a good deal of time, although some of our colleagues would have liked more time. In any case, I am pleased that we are holding the debates in this way. Thank you for planning that. The VVD has the concerns about climate sharp on the retina. Steps need to be taken to address the impact of climate change. The VVD has a long history of politicians who have worked hard for the climate and the environment. We are proud of that, and we will certainly continue to do so, but on the basis of good agreements and a policy that keeps as much as possible a firm course. No whining in every breath of sea wind or the idea that we may or may not achieve an objective. Nothing is more beneficial to climate policy than a volatile climate policy. In fact, every new power ratio in Parliament changes energy policy and every change reduces investment security and stagnates progress. This puts the Netherlands at risk its prosperity, according to an energy spokesperson, Diederik Samsom. That is why we have good agreements in the energy agreement, which has been concluded with over 40 parties from left to right, from Greenpeace to Shell. Is that a compromise? Oh, yeah. That is a compromise, but it is a very workable compromise. Because the noses are in the same direction, the spades are in the ground, renewable energy is being used, the oldest coal power plants are closing down and we are taking steps in the field of energy saving. The future of energy supply is one in transition. What's the future gonna be like? That is still difficult to say in one sentence, but it is important to leave room for the market, for innovation and for consumers. However, the VVD has three preconditions for this transition and the energy future. That future must be reliable, affordable and clean. Let me explain. Everyone always wants to be able to keep burning and cooking. When the light switch is turned, we expect this to work. The energy supply must be reliable. No one wants to spend half their income on the energy bill. So it has to be affordable as well. These are the two main energy supply frameworks in our country. The third framework is, of course, clean. After all, we are all in favour of a sustainable and clean society. Clean is for the VVD limiting CO in the air. Co-reduction is the goal, the market must be the means, and energy savings, renewable energy and CO storage or nuclear energy can be an excellent means. These three frameworks must be in balance, because that creates frameworks for the market in which one can act. Politics cannot foresee the best techniques for sustainability, for reducing CO2 emissions or for reducing energy consumption. The Wind on Land Monitor sent by the Minister to the Chamber last week says that a great deal of effort is still required to achieve 13% of the wind on land target. I ask the Minister how this 13% is going to be walked in. I'm concerned about the communication to the neighbors. By "reliable," the government also means "a reliable government." Are the periods during which a view can be introduced not shortened? I would like to get a firm commitment from the Minister on this. The VVD has an important objective in mind: the reduction of CO emissions. This is an important task for our country. No matter how often we invite the Minister here, with an extra debate we do not reduce CO emissions. A ten-point plan from colleague Vos? That doesn't reduce CO emissions. What does reduce CO emissions is the innovative developments of the entrepreneurs in our country. The industry in our country is responsible for this development. Such developments are taking place in the chemical industry, for example. That's the combination the VVD likes. Entrepreneurs provide jobs and innovation. The government makes one-on-one arrangements. I ask the Minister to report on progress in this area. How are these appointments going? Where are the bottlenecks? Everyone always wants to stoke and cook. "Reliable', "affordable' and "clean' must be in a good relationship with each other. If we look at the reactor in Petten, we have to look at "reliable" and "affordable" in a different form. A third of the world's production of medical isotopes comes from Petten. With these isotopes, doctors can detect and treat tumors. The Petten reactor is a reliable and affordable option and should remain a reliable and affordable partner for medical isotopes. Safety is an essential condition for the use of nuclear installations. Serious improvements have been made in Petten. The Core Physical Service supports these improvements. As far as the VVD is concerned, the reactor in Petten can therefore remain open, but the PALLAS reactor, the successor to the reactor in Petten, must be used. This allows the Netherlands to remain a major player on the market of medical isotopes. I ask the Minister for an overview of the current state of affairs. I would like to repeat:'reliable', 'affordable' and 'clean' must be the frameworks set by the government, and the market will provide the means to achieve the goal of reducing CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u77	The VVD talks about the importance of innovation. Innovation is also at the heart of my party, D66. I am concerned about the innovation foot of the energy agreement, as Mr Bosman has heard me say. What does the VVD think of the progress at that point? Does the VVD also care about the fact that innovative companies, such as Avantium and Torregas, have trouble finding their place in the Netherlands? What solutions should be found according to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u78	What's worrying is that we're at a lot of pressure on a few targets. There are three objectives: renewable energy, energy saving and CO reduction. I sometimes have the feeling that they bite each other, so we don't give the necessary attention to the things that matter. Innovation is certainly important to get space, both in the regulatory and financial areas. But there are limitations here too, because we can only spend all euros once. This sustainable objective is very important and we want to achieve 14%, but we are putting a lot of money into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u79	Yes, but this is a broad, general story and not a concrete answer to my question. The question was whether there is sufficient innovation and whether the VVD is concerned. How can we strengthen innovation? How can we go faster and offer more opportunities to those innovative companies that want to contribute in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u80	Much is happening in the field of innovation. I have been to several companies that are very busy working together and with opportunities to make improvements among themselves and to make new products that are good for green growth. All these things are going on. However, we must be careful that we here as a government decide what direction the direction should be and what matters should be regulated. The VVD says: let us be particularly reluctant to create regulation that imposes restrictions. I notice that we are very much concerned with limitations: what can be done, what cannot be done? I am therefore very much in favour of removing existing restrictions. I'd like to bet on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u81	I hear Mr Bosman saying two things. At the beginning he said that there must be a policy that keeps a steady course. You should not always go from one policy to another. I have a question about that. The current electric driving policy dates back to 2008 after a joint motion of the VVD and GroenLinks. It calls on the government to speed this up. Action plans have been made and a lot of work has been done by innovative companies, including in the south of the country. The objectives of the plan are: 200,000 cars with a plug in 2020 and 1 million by 2025. Does Mr Bosman agree with GroenLinks that we should proceed with these plans as much as possible and not suddenly make a major change of course?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u82	We have agreed in the energy agreement that we are aiming for the reduction of emissions, rather than the emission of cars from 2035 onwards. That's very important. A nice step has been taken towards the electric car, but I want to prevent us from focusing solely on electric cars. After all, hydrogen is also a possibility, and I also see opportunities for fossil fuel vehicles, only 1 in 100 or 1 in 200 or cars that absorb emissions. I do not want to block all these developments and say: this is the direction. We must prevent the Chamber and politics from blocking innovation. I just had that discussion. We should not say that we should work mainly with the electric car. No, it's much wider. Let the competition between them work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u83	There may also be all kinds of other innovations, but there is an action plan and a Formula E team. We are working on a whole range of greenings that are all based on a partial plan of innovation that Mr Bosman and I want to see. All this relates only to the piece of electric driving. Targets are linked to this: 200,000 in 2020 and 1 million in 2025. Does the VVD now want to let go of this or does it say with GroenLinks: we have only said that we should go that way; we have given that clarity to the industry in the south of the Netherlands and we want to continue to give it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u84	There is that clarity, but we must realise that many electric cars disappear from our country after a year and then head for Norway. We do not have a policy for this, and we have not agreed to it. If we think it's important that people start driving electric, it's about the whole picture. I would like to do that in the whole segment, including with the energy agreement. If we consider electric driving to be important, I hope that these electric cars will stay in the Netherlands. If they leave the Netherlands, there is only a transit of electric cars that are of no use to us in principle. That can never be the intention. So it's a much broader story. I am very pleased with the energy agreement that is aimed at 2035. I'm still working on those developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u85	I fully agree with Mr Bosman that politics must not stand in the way of innovation. He's shining. We might as well agree. How does Mr Bosman look at the developments in Petten? There are now plans for a new reactor. The production of medical isotopes is very important, but I understand that there are innovations, such as cyclotron technology, which may make that reactor completely unnecessary. How does Mr Bosman view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u86	The most important thing Mrs. Fat says is that it can be done. It could be, maybe, but I don't want uncertainty. We are now talking about research methods and treatment techniques for people with cancer. We must not run the risk of ever shortages. There was a time when there was a shortage and there were many problems when things did not go through in Canada. These are major risks and if it is not certain that these things cannot be regulated in any other way, I fully support PALLAS and the development of isotopes necessary for the detection and treatment of tumors. After all, it is about the health and the future of many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u87	Of course, we want absolute certainty about the production of medical isotopes. PALLAS, of course, is not the only reactor. There are several planned worldwide. There is also the development of new technologies. If I add that up, I can also see that investors are very reluctant to work with PALLAS. Can I find Mr Bosman on my side to look again at new technologies and developments worldwide before we put a definitive stamp on the decision to build PALLAS?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u88	I turn it around, because I think it is essential that everyone knows that we stand for the production of isotopes and that we can give as much guarantee as possible in this respect. We believe that research and treatment are essential and that people do not have to worry about it. If we turn it around, there will be discussion and concern about nuclear energy and its use. Then there is uncertainty at that point. We are creating uncertainty about nuclear power. You may, and that's your role, but I think that's unwise. In many respects there is a very good role for nuclear energy and isotopes in research and treatment. If we create unrest on that point, it is no wonder that there will be no investor. I'm very worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u89	Mrs. Van Tongeren, you've just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u90	I know, but this is about a whole different subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u91	One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u92	That question is: does the Netherlands really want to guarantee worldwide that the medical isotopes... Are you okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u93	Yeah, I got it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u94	I saw the spokesperson grab at his throat. Does Mr Bosman really want the Netherlands to guarantee worldwide that one third of the medical isotopes will continue to be delivered by the Netherlands and how much money will the VVD have left for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u95	The responsibility we have is linked to the fact that a lot of people depend on it. Of course there has to be a business case and there is; I'm really convinced of that and I'm not worried about that, until I hear something else. So far I haven't heard that and I'm assuming it's just gonna be okay. I think that's essential. I do not want to haggle and thereby create unrest about the use of nuclear energy for isotopes, treatment and discovery of tumors, i.e. for cancer treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u96	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we spoke here in the Lower House at the invitation of D66 with Andrew Steer. Andrew is the chairman of an international organization that does a lot of research into the state of the planet. He sketched in the field of energy fascinating developments in our world. The MPs know Tuesday is always a hectic day. It was a wonderful moment to realize again how privileged you are to take that kind of knowledge. Mr Steer said, among other things, that India and China currently have the ambition to install 100 gigawatts of solar panels per country. This should be done in China until 2020 and in India until 2022. So that's a very short deadline. At the moment we have a total of 200 gigawatts of panels worldwide. The Chinese track record in terms of realizing ambitions is well known; I expect it to go in the same direction in India. So we know we'll be there in a few years. That's possible, because the price of those solar panels is falling rapidly. So it is not just a green ambition; it is above all an economic necessity. It is economically beneficial to invest in that renewable energy. We really live in a time of transformation, with very rapid changes. Two months ago there was another inspiring man here; then we talked to Bill Gates. Together with a number of fellow entrepreneurs and investors, he launched an equally fascinating initiative to double investment in energy innovation within five years, with 20 countries including India and China as well as the United States. He himself set a billion euros table; Bill Gates can, apparently. I wonder why the Netherlands is not taking part in such a commendable initiative. I think it would be very good to speed up and strengthen these investments in renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u97	That immediately raises the question as to why the PvdA wants to commit itself at the moment to 26 billion in subsidies for uneconomic wind energy, which will also cause enormous inconvenience. Mr Vos says that solar panels will be so quickly cheaper that they will be profitable in a few years' time. However, he says right away: and that is why I now want 26 billion from the taxpayer to build these damn windmills. That's stupid, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u98	Solar panels are already profitable. For example, in the United Arab Emirates, a very oily country, there is a lot of investment in solar energy because its price there is about 5 cents per kilowatt hour. This will enable them to generate electricity cheaper than with oil. The same applies to wind energy on land. In the United States, wind energy, which costs about 8 cents per kilowatt hour, is cheaper than coal. That is why coal power stations are currently being closed down in the United States, among other things. During the last call for tenders, the price of wind energy in Denmark was 10.3 cents. I do not know what we are going to come up with in the Netherlands. That will be clear soon, but it will be in that order of magnitude. The price of nuclear energy, for example, is 11.4 cents. So it's actually purely a matter of the cheapest technology. It is no longer a question of left-wing green idealism. I will answer the question a little long, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u99	Yeah, you got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u100	I'll stop after this. I don't know if I've already said it, but let's not call each other stupid or anything. I don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u101	Then I will call it "not smart" to now raise billions of taxpayers' money from the citizen and put it into non-profitable techniques. The PvdA likes to do that: raising taxes. Mr Vos says that in a few years' time it will all be more profitable and better, but he is now going to commit us to billions of grants. That's not smart, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u102	What we see at this time, in this cabinet period, in the time when Mr Madlener and I live, is that the price of renewable energy crosses the price of fossil energy. That is a fascinating development, because that means that we no longer have to put money on the table for a thorium plant, for example. We can see that these technologies are going to compete with fossil energy technologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u103	I see that Mr Madlener wishes to intervene again, but I would ask Mr Vos to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u104	Andrew Steer, Bill Gates and the governments of these twenty countries see, unlike the PVV, that we are in a period of rapid change worldwide, of disruption. This change leads to a shift in energy policy in many countries. That doesn't just apply to China and India. A country like Uruguay has also switched from fossil to sustainable in ten years. Denmark has been pursuing a very strict sustainable policy for 30 years. Andrew Steer, who was here yesterday, showed a state showing how much renewable energy there is in the Netherlands. All the MPs who are here know that state. This shows that the Netherlands, together with Malta and Luxembourg, is dangling at the bottom of the list. That state also showed a line that showed us where we'd be by 2020. In the light of the urgency, I could see that by 2020 we are going to catch up with six to seven countries in the renewable energy ranking. I think it's fair to congratulate this minister and the cabinet. The Minister who sits here in 2020 and keeps a nice story about how high we are on that ranking, benefits from the policy and hard work of this minister and this cabinet, because in this period a big shift is being made by scaling up investment in renewable energy. Nevertheless, my question to the Minister is this: if things are going so fast in the world, should we not be making progress? Should we not, like the leaders in the governments of China and India, make an extra effort on top of what we are already planning? In the meantime, we are already a number of years further on with the energy agreement and the coalition agreement. The Netherlands is densely populated and we like to drive. The result is that the air we breathe is dirtier than in many other European countries. As a result, our children get asthma and people die of lung disease. If we move to zero-emission transport, where no dirty exhaust gases come out of our cars, our air will become cleaner and our streets will become quieter. Our transport also needs to be redesigned for another reason, because we are permanently in the traffic jams. That can no longer be tolerated. We can be a precursor to self-driving transport, which can be set up much more efficiently. Whoever thinks that this is not possible: in America, you can drive around California, Florida, Michigan, Nevada and Washington D.C. legally for years, because it has been regulated. Let's follow that example. The Netherlands is a small country and we do not want to stay in traffic forever? I say to colleagues from the parties who like to drive faster by car: I think it is quite possible to achieve the cleanest network with the safest road network in Europe that we have. We can drive faster if we no longer have emissions, because that is why we are currently imposing limits on our speeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u105	Were you ready? Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u106	No, but I see an interruption by Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u107	So do I, but I thought, when you're almost done, I'll give you the opportunity to finish. No? I shall now give the floor to Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u108	I am concerned with the figures given by Mr Vos. He's an expert on numbers. He does it so out of his head; brilliant. But he's not gonna tell me that our air quality has gotten worse, coming from the last century when we fired coal and all that kind of stuff? We're working on cars whose emissions are getting less and less. As a result, air quality is getting better and better. Mr Vos is not going to tell us that things are only getting worse in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u109	I made a comparison with other European countries. Fine dust emissions are higher in the Netherlands than in other European countries. It has certainly improved, but car manufacturers are no longer able to meet the requirements we impose on car emissions. The most worrying thing is that it emerged in the Volkswagen scandal, in which fraud was committed because it was no longer possible to meet the requirements. That is because the internal combustion engine, which some of us in this Chamber are big fans of, has been developing for 100 years. That technology's just a little bit done. New technologies, such as hydrogen, electric driving and other forms of transport, can be further developed. They are developing very quickly. We can keep driving those cars, hundreds of miles away. We can load them faster and faster. They are getting cheaper, with tens of thousands of euros. This means that we are going to switch, Mr Bosman, to a different kind of transport in the Netherlands. That's good, because then our air will be cleaner and our streets will be quieter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u110	But that switch was already underway. We shouldn't pretend the industry didn't. Mr Vos confuses particulate matter and emissions. I understand fine dust comes from the tires, too. I don't think it matters if you drive electric or with an internal combustion engine. It is essential, however, that we pay attention and ensure that we take with us the innovation that brings the future. Apparently, Mr Vos believes that we should say goodbye to the combustion engine, while there is still a great deal of potential in it. The development of the past 50, 60 years shows a change, where you can drive 1 in 30, and maybe 1 in 50 or even 1 in 100. There may be possibilities that the emissions of the car can be absorbed in a very different way. Or does Mr Vos say: no, we're going to rule things out now and say they can't do it anymore, and we're going to do it sooner than agreed in the energy agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u111	If you drive on the road in the Netherlands in a petrol car, you can see a Volkswagen Golf electric past, or a Renault, or a Nissan LEAF. You can also see a BMW or Tesla electric past. The question then is when such a car will be affordable for everyone in the Netherlands. When is the price of such a car equal to that of other cars? That moment is approaching with raging strides. If such a car costs the same thing, so I ask Mr Bosman and all the other Members of Parliament why should we still accept that there are polluting cars that make noise, if we have a clean and quiet alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u112	I was asked something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u113	It is not intended to be asked again, but I give you an opportunity to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u114	How is the price of those cars going to be equal? If the price of the electric car goes down. I have seen that Mr Vos adheres to the Norwegian model. That's exactly where they did it the other way around. The fossil fuel cars have been made more expensive, to make their price equal to the electric cars. If you do that, you're sure that people with a modal income or lower will no longer drive a car.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u115	I see Mr Geurts standing by the interrupting microphone. Mr Vos, you can answer if you do not ask Mr Bosman another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u116	For the Labour Party, driving must be affordable for everyone. The Labour Party has once conducted election campaigns because driving must be accessible to everyone. We're not gonna take people's cars, as some parties in the media suggested. The Labour Party is a supporter of car transport for all. I am not allowed to ask Mr Bosman any more questions, but if we have clean and quiet alternatives and they drop in price very quickly, then I think the question arises when we just switch. I've seen that we can do that energy neutrally, so I think we might get out of it, too. I would like to discuss this with Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u117	I think it is already a good thing for the debate that the PvdA Group has watered down the positions it launched last week. I don't hear any more years when everything has to be electric, for example. I think that's a profit for the debate. At the air bicycle company that was presented last week, good organisations like RAI didn't even want to react, and that says enough. I have a question for Mr Vos. Does he think that the cabinet will have to raise the prices for full electric?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u118	First of all, I'm not taking back a letter from the note I published last week. Let that be clear. I think it's okay to establish that. Secondly, I think it is important to introduce a whole package of measures in the Netherlands and that my party should discuss this with the CDA, the VVD and other parties to ensure that we switch to emission-free driving as soon as possible. The Labour Party thinks we can do that by 2025. I hope I'm right about that. If it takes a little longer, so be it, but as far as we are concerned, we are now going to make a speedy start on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u119	I am not getting an answer to the basic question I asked about the full electric tax rates. Does the PvdA Group think that these rates should be zero, or should there be a different rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u120	I do not intend to introduce into this debate, which is about energy and not about tax rates, a change in the position of the Labour Party on this year's rates. The note we were just talking about was written for the election program of the Labour Party. It focuses on the period ahead and outlines a long-term perspective. Again, I would like to invite the CDA and all the other parties here to come up with a common vision in which we can express the ambitions we all have. I do not think we are as far apart as Mr Geurts might suggest. I'd like to hear from the Minister about the heat roundabout. In Zuid-Holland there is plenty of discussion about the construction of that heat roundabout. In principle, the Labour Party welcomes the development of heat grids. A lot of energy can be saved by linking demand and supply of heat smartly. By linking the development of these heat networks to sustainable generation, natural gas can eventually be phased out as a fossil fuel for heat. It has to be, if we want to be fossil-free by 2050. In South Holland, however, new polluting coal plants are now in danger of being connected to the heat grid. This is precisely what the heat grid is going to contribute to a further increase in CO emissions, through a lock-in of those coal plants. The most concrete plan now on the table, the "Pip over West," provides for a connection between the Westland and The Hague to heat from the Maasvlakte. This is 75% coal heat from coal power stations. My question to the Minister is whether this is the intention. Like biomass, which was mentioned earlier today, we would like to see no lock-in if we want to close those coal plants in the future. Dan Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS). My group has asked a number of questions about this, including the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. In 2007, Minister Cramer said that CCS will be introduced in the future and that within ten years, therefore, it is now expected that the cabinet will see that system implemented in a European context and that its costs will be borne by the operator. It has also said that investors in new power stations will have to take this into account and that CCS will have to cope itself after possible start-up, development and demonstration phases. Then how come we still don't see that those power stations that built CCS? In the context of the phase-out debate, the Minister also said that financial forecasts should take account of CO emissions and the changes in the policies associated with them. Now my question to the Minister is why the coal-fired power stations are so surprised when we really want to use that policy. Let us just increase the emission requirements for coal plants so that they emit as much as a gas plant. Then we can see how the market determines the best way to generate CO-neutral or at least with as little CO as possible. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u121	Mr Vos says: this is a plan and I am not taking back any of it. That's clear. However, I do have a question about that. The combustion engine shall be phased out. New legislation will ensure that only electric cars are sold in the Netherlands within ten years, as in Norway. There is something else in the energy agreement, namely 2035. Does Mr Vos now distance himself from the energy agreement, or does he say: no, the energy agreement is leading?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mr Bosman refers to the glorious history of the VVD when it comes to green politics and climate. That is not surprising either, because a conservative party naturally pays attention to the heritage. I think that Mr Bosman's party, together with the CDA, has been leading on that point, even more so than my own party. I hope that this will continue to be the case in the future. We concluded the energy agreement a few years ago. It's being evaluated now. As far as I am concerned, this does not mean that we should not have an additional ambition with regard to any point and point of the energy agreement. I do not think that this is the position of the cabinet, but I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr Nijpels introduced additional measures in the Committee on Guarantee, both in the area of renewable energy and in the area of savings, in order to achieve the original objectives. I fully support the energy agreement, but you should not think of it as some kind of holy grail, where we in the Chamber have to do textexegesis on what can and can't be done. That goes too far for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u123	Does this mean that the total targets aren't set either? As far as the PvdA is concerned, there is therefore some room to say: "You can get them and you cannot get them, because they are not real appointments. It is a piece of text, let us not take it too seriously. They did their best with that piece of text, but well, we take it with a grain of salt." Do you now distance yourself from the energy agreement with this piece, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u124	I have already said here in the Chamber dozens of times that we support the energy agreement. There will now be an evaluation of the energy agreement. We're about to have an energy agreement, 2.0. All kinds of agreements have been made by the Committee on Energy, Research and Technology. It's a living document. Especially in the run-up to that energy agreement 2.0 after the evaluation, changes will be made. It is a question of whether it is not real to look again at something that you concluded a few years ago, given all the developments in the world, I can mention a number of others that make us have a different reality now than then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u125	Where's that climate bill of yours?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u126	That climate law is a fascinating initiative, but it is quite complicated to fight it for each other. It's getting a lot of calls and e-mails, I can assure you. I'd be happy to catch up with you on that one. You can do that here in the Room if necessary, but you are also welcome in my room with a cup of coffee. Then we can discuss this a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u127	Mr Smaling, what do you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u128	A cup of coffee with Mr Vos is fine, but he has announced a climate law with a lot of aplomb. Maybe we would have done the same. The SP would like to participate in this initiative, but I would say: submit it now, because now you will get it through this Chamber. After the election, you'll just have to see if this works. Hence my question: isn't there a deliberate pace, or is it the Council of State? Is it gonna be before the end of the year? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u129	I believe that the Council of State has responded. I always look at the minister, in the vein of: where are you with these laws? You have a whole device, why isn't it all getting along? But now that we're writing such a law, I can understand it a little better, because it's a whole piece of art you have to put together. It must be done carefully, because it is legislation. We are doing our best and, as far as I am concerned, it will come as soon as possible, but I am aware, like no other, that in this Chamber, in its present composition, there is a great deal possible in the field of green politics, the farewell of fossil energy and the generation of more renewable energy. In that respect, you will really find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I apologize for not being able to join us until later, but I was just in a general discussion about nature. It also means that I have not been able to follow all the nuances of all contributions verbatim. Fossil thinking, in which polluting energy sources are maintained and there is not enough room for sustainability; I can see that in this cabinet. Coal, nuclear energy and gas are still the main sources of energy in the Netherlands. Large-scale sustainability stays out like this. As it stands, we are not even achieving the 14% renewable energy target by 2020. I wonder why. I have a hunch: it comes down to daring, daring to focus on wind and solar energy and dare to say goodbye to fossil fuels for good. But the Minister always seems to be looking for a safety net, leaving the door open for harmful energy sources. It does not allow shale gas extraction during this cabinet period, but it does keep open the option for test drilling, because in future we will need shale gas. He also keeps open the crippled Borssele nuclear power station, which has long since failed to meet the strictest safety requirements. Necessary changes often only come about under pressure. As the pressure increases, there will be an impetus for innovation and greening. We'll have to go to other energy supplies. This pressure is high, but by not closing the possibilities of shale gas and nuclear energy once and for all, the Minister is knowingly creating an emergency valve to reduce the pressure. That is not wise, because now short-term thinking prevails. With shale gas or nuclear energy, we lack the urgency to really change. I therefore ask the Minister to close the door to fossil fuels and really focus on green energy. There are so many opportunities for sustainability, but the cabinet has incomprehensiblely decided to keep the nuclear power station in Borssele open until 2033. This despite the fact that research shows that the nuclear power plant is not Fukushimaproof. The costs of strengthening have still not been identified. This is probably going to run in the hundreds of millions. In the meantime, the plant does not meet the most stringent safety standards. I am very concerned about that. Let us reduce the risk as much as possible and start dismantling Borssele, not just in 2033, but now. The money needed to make the Borssele Fukushimaproof nuclear power plant is much better spent on green energy. So we are talking about hundreds of millions of euros. Imagine how much renewable energy we could gain from that. That would be a bold thing to do: to release the nuclear safety net for good, to be sustainable and to be safe. Is the Minister prepared to close Borssele? In South Holland there is talk of a heat roundabout. Mr Vos was just talking about that. There, coal plants will be connected to the heat grid. We must avoid making this coal power plant an indispensable part of the heat grid. Is the Minister prepared to give the guarantee that, with the connection of coal plants to the heat grid, these coal plants can also disappear from the heat grid without major consequences? Green energy has the future, but then we have to build enough windmills. However, research shows that three quarters of the provinces are lagging behind in the construction of windmills. As things stand at present, we only get 76% of the wind energy agreed in the energy agreement, partly because municipalities and provinces impose super-statutory rules, as happens in North Holland. Is the Minister prepared to encourage municipalities and provinces not to impose additional conditions on the national scheme? Unfortunately, with only investing in green energy, we are not getting there. Our energy consumption is so high that we are making it very difficult for ourselves if we do not also have a parallel trail of energy saving. There are great opportunities, for example in the isolation of rental homes. There are targets for this, namely that corporations isolate 1.8 million rental homes until they have at least energy label B. All this must be done before 2020. But research shows that that's not gonna be made. The current pace is too low. If we want to achieve the goal, we really need to do something about it. 32% of landlords say they can't achieve sustainability by 2020. That's a third. Does the Minister have an explanation for that? Can the Minister explain what obstacles exist for corporations to make their homes more sustainable? How can sustainability be accelerated? Finally, the energy agreement, which sets out the objectives of this cabinet. The targets are not ambitious, as the Animal Party has said before, but it is still questionable whether we are going to get them. The OECD has also expressed its concerns and recommends, inter alia, that the review of the Energy Agreement be carried out in 2016 "underground, transparent and independent'. This has been interpreted by the Minister as consulting the parties concerned on the design of the evaluation. But that's not independent, is it? Are they involved in evaluating their own plans? That's the butcher who approves his own flesh. Of course you can't. Is the Minister prepared to take the evaluation to an independent body, as recommended by the OECD? I'd like a response. I'm considering a motion on this point. I'm closing up. I asked the Minister to show more courage and let go of his safety nets. That fossil thinking, as I call it, stands in the way of real innovation. We have to go to a cover, and you can't reach it with very small mouse steps. We're running out of time. The road to sustainable energy supply must be completed with a solar-powered race car and not with a 19th-century coal-fired steam locomotive. That is why I ask the Minister if he is prepared to show courage and put real pressure on a green cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u131	Mr. President, you've already taken a second from my time. How am I supposed to explain that? Mr. Chairman. This Minister has so far worked extremely hard on his energy agreement. The SP Group would like to congratulate him on this. Other colleagues have done the same. You play chess on a lot of plates at the same time, and it's not easy to win all those games. Carlsen managed to do that here recently, but most grandmasters can't. It seems a good time to take a look at the energy agreement. That is why I would like to give a breakdown in my speech. There are things that run pretty well, but there are also things that we do have to say about. This is the last point I would like to make: not fast enough, not sustainable enough and not socially enough. The latter is actually my main point and my advice for an energy agreement 2.0. It is now a rather technocratic agreement. It is an agreement of megawatts, petajoules and percentage, and it should therefore be given a stronger social component. As a result, this transition, which we all think is necessary, would gain in popular interest. What's pretty good in our eyes? I would say that it is electric transport, even though it can always be faster. All kinds of suggestions are made by colleagues which make sense in themselves. With the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment we often talk about the so-called modal shift: how do you get people out of the car in the train and how do you get goods out of the truck on the train and then into the inland waterway ship? These are, of course, discussions that run alongside the debate on electric transport, but in general they are being pushed hard. We talked about it last week. It's nice that the bill for wind at sea is still through the First Chamber. It is also nice that research is being carried out into the effects it has on the seaside resorts. Sun also goes fast, not numerically, but the increase in solar energy does go up exponentially. As far as my group is concerned, this is very important, because solar energy is an area where people are involved. What doesn't go fast enough in our view? We think the geothermals are left behind. In an earlier debate, the Minister indicated what this is about: it is a financing problem. That is why I would like to hear how he can speed up geothermal energy and other forms of soil energy in particular. The same applies to the so-called smart grids. The jargon in this debate is a bit annoying for the people listening in, but those smart grids are focused on the efficient use of energy and on matching supply and demand, for example in a business area. It can also play a role in a residential area, because one smart grid is not the other. Can we speed that up? Home insulation has been mentioned. Much is happening, but you may have to distinguish between houses where you can quickly go to label B and houses where you have to choose total insulation in the form of zero on the meter. The latter has more feet in the earth and it may not be possible and desirable anywhere. What pace does the Minister envisage or does he envisage two paces? My group does not think that the savings in industry are going too fast. If you look at the electricity prices and the energy tax that has to be paid, you can see that the small user pays two hundred times as much energy tax per kilowatt hour as an energy-intensive company. It is very difficult to keep selling that to the people who have to cough up that tax, especially as the SDE+ rises to a level comparable to its own risk. In any case, it would be more and more difficult for me to sell it to the people who sympathize with my party if it does not go better and faster. What do we not think is sustainable enough? I would really like to call on the Minister to review the reporting of biomass 2013. My objection to this report is that there are no choices in it. All destinations of biomass, including energy, are considered to be equally important and should therefore be fully focused on increasing supply. The opinion of the SP is that biomass should primarily be used for high-quality applications and last but not least for energy use. We can learn a lot from the use of residual waste in the bioheat plant in Purmerend. I think it is a very good initiative, but this is without prejudice to the need to differentiate the use of biomass. If we don't, we really can't sell that many billions we put into a wood pellets blending activity in the coal plants. That is still separate from the tax exemption, because it really is a very large so-called lock-in. We don't think CO storage underground is a good idea, especially if we all have to pay it. Let companies do it themselves. I am therefore a little surprised that the energy report says that we are going to apply it on a large scale. I'd like to hear what that's gonna be in. In principle we do not think manure fermentation is a good idea either, because it solves a problem that should not have existed at all. In the past, the Chamber has adopted a motion stating that we are going to steer livestock farming on quality rather than quantity. That means you have to reduce the manure surplus and not use that manure to extract gas from it, because then you're still stuck with the nutrients. Mr Geurts knows this very well, and there is no market for it at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u132	Is the SP also opposed to storing CO below the bottom of the North Sea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u133	Not in principle. Look, it's an end-of-pipe solution. It shouldn't be necessary, but I think we can agree on that. It's very expensive. It takes a lot of energy to get it underground. We believe that companies have to pay for this on their own, based on the principle of the polluter pays.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u134	Finally, Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u135	I fully agree with you, just as probably former Minister Cramer, who already wished for this in 2007.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u136	Proceed, Mr. Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u137	Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point. It will not surprise the Minister that I am addressing this area: wind on land. There are all kinds of places in this country where that goes well. From farm mills in Reduzum, Friesland, to smaller parks in for example Coevorden, which are simply well supervised and at least within the municipality do not encounter much resistance. In the Drentse and Groningen Veenkoloniën, on the other hand, a drama is taking place. I don't know what that is. Maybe the wrong people were sent there. In any case, one after the other is misguided, ranging from officials who say to people that the search for acceptance is a ritual dance to the statement that the state coordination system is being used to push things through. I also wonder if the noise standards are all right. That is why I would ask the Minister to implement the motion that has just been adopted and which focuses on environmental management. Of the houses in the Drenthe Veenkoloniën, the WOZ value has now been reduced. It really can't be like this. I would also ask the Minister to look at the alternative sun. Wind is now even cheaper per unit of energy than sun, but it is going very hard with solar energy, as we saw last week in the broadcast of Counter-Light. It's gonna be mass production. The efficiency of solar energy is going up very quickly and you need to look at what will be efficient and effective in five years' time and ten years' time. The efficiency of windmills is falling faster than that of sun, so at the time of 20, 30, 40 years you've got.............................................................................................................................................. With all the subsidies involved in the energy agreement, we simply have to look at that. I would also like to call for greater attention to energy cooperatives and to innovation at local level in an evaluation and in a version 2.0. So don't just look at the top sectors. Do anything that stimulates decentralised, I call neighborhood batteries. Put more into employment and training, for example, of installers. Also bring the theme into education and make sure that there is a solution for that netting scheme. I agree with some speakers that certain people benefit from it, while others pay more energy taxes. We shouldn't have that either. The future of energy must be borne in a decentralised way. My final point. There's going to be an energy dialogue. My question is who with. Is that only sending, or is it receiving? What results does the Minister intend to achieve once this energy dialogue is completed? Finally, what does the Minister himself think of a climate law? The proposal of the Labour Party and GroenLinks is there. Would that be useful, a climate and energy law with, for example, a fund such as the Delta Fund or the Infrastructure Fund? In the light of the Minister's experience over the past few years, would it also make sense to invest the entire domain with a single member of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u138	Mr Smaling does not want much. That's what we hear. A while ago, he had the ambition to come on behalf of the SP with a vision about the sustainability of houses, including supporting how the finances would be regulated. In a later debate, this was somewhat watered down. I can't find that vision anywhere. Does Mr. Smaling have that view of the SP on how we're going to make these houses more sustainable somewhere on the website or is it only available internally within the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u139	I've mentioned a lot of things I do. Perhaps Mr Bosman will also turn on or off the switch when it suits him. We are in the process of getting all the subjects involved in the physical environment closer together within the SP. These are energy, the environment, transport and livestock farming, land-use planning. That's all part of it. This is the aim of making cohesion visible and, therefore, of avoiding conflicting positions in areas such as traffic and the environment. That's what we're doing. Housing insulation is part of that. However, I think it is easier to make gallery flats to energy label B more sustainable than to make everything zero on the meter. That is why I am simply maintaining the room for manoeuvre on that point. Who am I to say that everything should be zero on the meter if that is unexploited work, including financial?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u140	Finally, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u141	So where the cabinet is in too little haste, the SP takes a little more time for the plans. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u142	No, it's not. Our alderman Paulus Jansen, Mr Bosman, is working on it in Utrecht. He tries to make the big flats in Overvecht more sustainable quickly, but that goes faster when you go to energy label B than when you try to make everything zero on the meter. This is a very sensible and legitimate starting point that will ensure the rapid sustainability of a neighbourhood that can use it well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u143	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u144	Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on what the spokesmen have said. I will try to keep my introduction as short as possible and then deal with a number of general points. I will also try to answer the various questions raised by the spokesmen. If a spokesperson gets the impression that she or his question is not answered in the first instance, I may take it with me on a question from another spokesperson. Some of the questions overlapd. I think that the Chamber has a very good idea of what the government is doing with regard to energy: we are all focused on the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy. This is a major task for which we stand, a task on which international agreements have been made, agreements of which the Netherlands still has a lot to achieve. The Netherlands has committed itself to ambitious goals, supported by judgments, European agreements and global agreements. We are trying to implement and realise all the ambitions that exist. That is what we are trying to do, in particular, by creating a broad public support base, which we have achieved with the energy agreement. We are now working on this, followed by an evaluation and possibly by adjustments. But the point is that all this must be supportive of the transition to renewable energy, as soon as possible. Recently, we saw that the Committee on Safeguards, which is to follow the implementation of the Energy Agreement, has been able to conclude that all parties involved in the Energy Agreement are represented in that committee............................................................................................................................................................................. For this we had to make a few additional agreements: an action plan to actually get the 6,000 megawatt wind on land and an innovation programme to achieve the roll-out of monofertilisation. I have intensive discussions with FrieslandCampina on this subject, which is very willing to support it. I would also like to mention a new subsidy scheme for small renewable heat options, in order to persuade people to opt for other options instead of the obvious central heating boiler, a study on the effectiveness of the stimulation of geothermal energy, which Mr Smaling, among others, started on. I am as interested in this as Mr Smaling. I am very pleased with the predecessors on this point. They are very intensively supported by EZ. We constantly look at what else needs to happen in the light of their experiences. I see a lot of geothermals. I am in the process of getting that done where further efforts can be made. We have also agreed on a new subsidy scheme for renewable energy and energy saving in sports associations. That subsidy scheme has been running for a year. Finally, we have agreed on a tax reduction in the reduced energy tax scheme. That arrangement was already in place, but we've made it even more beneficial. That has now been changed with the Chamber. On the basis of all these agreements, the Committee on Safeguards has concluded that we can also meet the 14% target by 2020. It is very good that we can achieve this ambitious short-term objective. It is absolutely not the case that I think we are there with that. Of course, it is mainly about the period after 2023. Then there's a lot more to be done. We have prepared an energy report for that period. We have indicated what the starting points should be for the period after and how we think we can achieve this. We do not believe it is right at this time to establish this as a government and then to make an implementation agenda for it. We think you should first talk to all those involved and interested, hence the energy dialogue between April and June. Then we will go into the country, not only to send but also to listen, to provide information and to get opinions, to see where we can work together, where we can make agreements, how we can also encourage other parties to become involved. That is what the energy dialogue is for. I will also come up with an energy agenda this year for the period after 2023. If all this succeeds, we will have achieved our ambitious targets for 2020 and 2023, and we will have an agenda for the period after 2023, and we will also have had a broad public debate, in order to get that word out again, in the form of an energy dialogue. A few points have been raised in particular. Let me start with the electric transport. I will come back to this later in answering questions and in response to the GroenLinks plan, on the road to clean transport. I am grateful for that plan. After all, I can always use good ideas. I am also grateful for the plans of Mr Vos of the Labour Party, for example. The political parties, in the political groups, think about this, put their views on paper and come forward with them. That all helps, that's stimulating, that we can get on with. I do not go into detail about this plan now, but I can say that we are doing very well in terms of electric transport. We are number two in the world in terms of share of electric cars in any form.......................................................................................................................................................... We must, above all, hold on to that. In 2015 we doubled from 45,000 to 90,000 cars compared to 2014. The number of jobs in this sector has now reached 3,200. We believe that by 2020 it could reach 10,000. We have 18,000 semi-public and public charging points where everyone can go to charge their car. We can probably make a green deal in April to provide 55,000 and maybe 60,000 of those charging points by 2020. This interaction between charging points and electric cars is necessary. After all, one does not progress without the other. So it has to be done. I feel supported by the network companies and the companies that are part of the network groups that want to invest in this. Municipalities want to invest in this. I also feel supported by the Secretary of State for Finance, who has recently improved the tax regime for charging points and posts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u145	Mr Madlener, I'm sure you didn't just stand by the interrupting microphone. You're probably planning an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u146	I'd like to ask the Minister a question. He says he's happy with all those plans from GroenLinks and the PvdA. Those plans appear to be air biking or green dreams that are totally unreal, to be honest. The criticism was also huge and the PvdA seems to distance itself from its own plan. First of all, it would be the prelude to the electoral programme, and now I hear from Mr Vos that driving should be affordable. Isn't it wise that the Minister should have this passed on to him? If a government party with a lot of tamtam launches a plan that leads to a lot of commotion in society, perhaps 13,000 windmills are needed to deliver the necessary energy; an priceless plan is it normal that the minister responds to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u147	I think that Mr Vos and the Labour Party are quite capable of explaining and defending their own plans; they do not need me to do so. My big plan is to make the transition to renewable energy as fast as possible and in such a way that it is also secure and affordable for the people. If political groups and parties think along and come up with concrete proposals, then I am pleased with that, and I am going to look at what I can do with it in order to achieve my own goal, which is also the aim of the cabinet. I see that the objectives of GroenLinks and the Labour Party are aimed at accelerating the transition to renewable energy. I believe that this objective is worth the efforts they are making.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u148	I understand that the Minister sees these plans as more of a kind of encouragement or direction of thought than real concrete plans. Maybe that's for the best, because I don't think there's a lot of realism in those plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u149	I don't think so. The Group of the Party of Labour, which, by the way, can speak very well for itself, has stressed years ago that there must be a strong objective for renewable energy. That is what she has put in her election programme. It is also in the coalition agreement, not least because of the strong arguments of the Labour Party. It has also come into the energy agreement. This cabinet started in 2012. We are now in 2016, and we see that all parties involved in the energy agreement are estimating that those targets can be met by 2020 and 2023. So when I think about the Labour Party, I don't think about air biking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u150	GroenLinks is also pleased that Mr Wiebes is carrying out the motion by GroenLinks and D66 on the cost of loading at those loading posts. That's a really nice step in the green direction. I mean, in the right direction. Actually, that was a nice slip. The Minister also mentioned the green deal for loading pole infrastructure. Is the aim now to reach one public charging pole per three cars and is it also aimed at achieving this in public car parks? During my week of trial driving I discovered that it is also in public parking garages very hard looking for a loading pole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u151	We're at the beginning of the transition to electric cars. I find it very encouraging that the world's largest car companies all have suitable products for consumers. These include electric cars in various forms as well as hydrogen-powered cars. I think there is a lot going on at car companies. There is also a lot of innovation at that point, but we are really at the beginning of the process. So if you say to me now 'this and that is not good', 'this is going to be difficult' and 'this is not going to work', you are all right, but it is the art for me to make sure that we can do it in the end. You have to face the problems. You need to find parties who want to solve those problems with you. You have to provide tax incentives and at first also subsidies. You have to make long-term arrangements. That's how we're all working on it. I think that Mrs Van Tongeren is right to highlight these points. A number of things are really not going well. All this must be set in motion. As Mrs Van Tongeren well knows, there is, of course, an interaction between the number of loading posts and the number of electric cars. If you put a charging post somewhere for €4,000...................................................................................................................................................................... It is therefore the art for me to ensure that the growth of the number of electric cars is equal to the growth of the number of charging stations and that this is combined. The closer it gets to each other, the more it strengthens each other. In the end, we get into the situation that electric cars are going to become ordinary. That is also the ambition of the cabinet: to ensure that electric cars become ordinary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u152	That was a fairly general answer to a slightly more specific question. At the moment, almost all charging pole owners and all manufacturers of electric cars are losing out on this. If something new is introduced on the market, it is always lost. That is why some nice green deals have been made at that point. How can the Court offer suggestions for these green deals.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If the Minister doesn't think this is the right time to make suggestions for a green deal, I'd be happy to do it at another time, but there are things in these green deals that people think they're helping pretty quickly; I've done a lap around the electric car industry. There is a green deal about lowering the costs of the loading posts and there is a green deal about how many loading posts we actually need. If you have a target, the companies know what they are aiming at. So that's actually the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u153	I think so, too. I think these are constructive suggestions. If they are not already involved in this green deal, they will certainly be involved in its elaboration at some point. I am grateful for such suggestions. I can say a lot more about electric transport, but let me leave it at that. In view of what Mr Smaling and others have said about wind on land, it is good to say something about that. I am, of course, well aware that when you start with large wind farms, you first discuss the need for them in a particular region with everyone. Then you check if there are any alternatives. If so, should we use both those alternatives and those wind farms, or could it replace one for the other? And in what period should this be achieved within the national agreements? If you can talk about it quietly and if you can work quietly on the support platform to eventually behave wider than is the case now, to get to a wind farm, that is ideal. However, I was in a situation where we had to achieve results in the short term. We agreed that by 2020 there would be 14% renewable energy. I need the biomass, the windmills at sea and the windmills on land for that. At present, the province of Drenthe has achieved only 8% of the 2020 target. So she's way behind that. So there is certainly pressure to ensure progress in a process which I believe started in 2009 and which already led to the first plans in 2011. For Drenthe, those plans meant 420 to 600 megawatts. These plans were then worked out by me as well from 2012 onwards and were finally reduced to 150 megawatts. This is an area designated by the province. At some point, that must become concrete. I have now made a choice, in which I have complied with all the legal requirements. That choice is laid down in a draft integration plan, which has entered into procedure. Anyone who wishes to respond has the opportunity to do so in the form of an opinion. Those views are coming in. There's a six-week period for that. I say to Mr Bosman that I will maintain that six-week period for the submission of views. I think that period is very real. We've been preparing for a long time. People must study this and, if they so wish, they must be able to express their opinion on it. So you don't have to nibble on those six weeks. So I would like to say that to Mr Bosman. In Drenthe, that's what they're working on right now. Those views come to me. Take it from me that I'm a driver enough to take those views very seriously. I shall therefore take a close look at this and I shall look at how the views in these views relate to my views and what conclusions should be drawn from them. I'll do that in the beginning of the third quarter. Around the summer I will come to conclusions on this, as far as is necessary, together with my colleague Mr Schultz from Infrastructure and the Environment. There is considerable progress on land wind. It is already certain that we will achieve 5.250 megawatts by 2020. Two years ago, we thought it was going to be 4,700 megawatts. However, we now know that it is going to be 5,250 megawatts. We'll probably realize a lot more. Some of it is, however, left behind. I have discussed this with the provinces, the VNG, the Union of Water Councils and others involved. They said they want to get that 6,000 megawatt. The VNG wants to help the provinces that have made agreements with me. The same applies to the Union of Water Councils. Last week, I was able to adopt a strengthened action plan with them in order to achieve it. We'll all work together to get it done. That 6,000 megawatt is important. I'd like to see it realized. I will try very hard to do that too. You'll get resistance. I understand that resistance is there. There may be general plans that are good for the country as a whole, but there are very different interests in the places where they are to be implemented, which must also be taken into account. The people with these interests come out with strength. That's very good. Next, I have to incorporate this into the big picture and come to a responsible decision. I can assure the Chamber that I will do my best to do so. I wanted to say this in general terms about wind on land.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u154	If you want to realize 6,000 megawatts of wind on land, you'll have the first 1,000 megawatts faster than the last 1,000 megawatts. I believe that this is also an economic law when there is marginal costs and income. My point is this. We've learned a lot about wind on land in recent times. I often talk to our department in the Noordoostpolder, where they also deal with a large wind farm. This department is reasonable to speak of. Maybe that's because the villages around Emmeloord have been made. Maybe that's because that park is on the edge of the IJsselmeer. Unfortunately, however, you must also note that the parks in Drenthe and Groningen are the most difficult parks for the minister. Is he prepared to consider a possible alternative energy mix if the views give rise to the same amount of megawatt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u155	In my opinion, that is not possible. If, as a result of the views, it is decided to make changes to the park De Drentse Monden and Oostermoer, then I do not think there are any timely alternatives to this. Then we're not gonna make it up to 14% by 2020. It's all on the critical line. What always comes at me is: resistance. Mr Smaling says that we should not do the parks in Drenthe and Groningen. We have heard today that we should not do nuclear power stations; at least a number of parties say so. Almost everyone says we shouldn't do shale gas. It is felt that coal power stations should be closed down. There are groups that say that we must stop all gas extraction in Groningen. And every time gas extraction from small fields is on the agenda, then there is also opposition. If we hold that line, there will be two consequences. Firstly, we do not achieve the 14% target. Secondly, it becomes very uncertain whether we will be able to meet our energy needs in an affordable way in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u156	This is the well-known Groningen-Hoogezand-Sappemeer-Zuidbroek-Scheemda-Heiligerlee-Winschoten-Neweschans-row of the Minister, the list of things we don't want. However, there is plenty of what we do want. Geothermics are still on the move, but they have great potential. We could also agree to the expansion of wind at sea once it has proved successful. So that's not what this is about. I think it's important to establish that things have gone wrong in the Veenkoloniën. That's what the LOFAR case is gonna get over. That is why the conclusion is that the World Health Organization values in that area are lower. In addition, only a few people benefit financially from these huge poles. The people in the ribbon villages, in Stadskanaal and in Meeden have nothing but burdens. Surely all this should prompt the Minister to change his opinion? Why would you put forward views when the minister says, "I'm just gonna do it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u157	It is Mr Smaling's reaction to what I said about Groningen gas, gas from small fields, nuclear energy, coal plants, shale gas, and so I can go further. He is also opposed to the injection of production water and no biomass should be co-fired, even if we agreed to do so. If he adds up that whole list, he must also come to the conclusion that we cannot secure future energy supplies and that we will not achieve the ambitions for renewable energy. Mr Smaling says that a few people benefit when windmills are installed. I would point out that the province of Drenthe designates an area where windmills are permitted. That's where anyone can come up with plans. Then the code of conduct agreed between nature and environmental organisations and the wind sector will apply. They have agreed that it must be done in a certain way and that a certain amount must also be available for the environment in order to compensate for what is being faced. These agreements have been complied with, but it will have to be proved whether they are very profitable. The windmills are set up and over a period of fifteen years you will receive subsidies as the windmills spin. If something goes wrong with the technique or something else goes wrong and the windmills don't provide energy, you don't get a subsidy. This is therefore at risk, and it is against taking risks that profit is being made. On that system our entire society runs despite the fact that the SP is represented in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u158	As far as Mr Smaling was concerned, this would be a form of entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u159	I would like to give that to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u160	The Christian Union would very much like that 6,000 megawatts to be realized on land. The Minister wants that, too. Did he say that an action plan was drawn up last week to ensure that this 25%, which seems difficult to achieve, will be implemented before 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u161	We had an action plan, but we agreed last week that a number of things should be strengthened in this context. For example, in all the governments involved in windmill initiatives in one way or another, someone must be committed, follow that process and send signals to others if necessary. It is also very important that the Union of Water Councils, the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the IPO, at that meeting, said without any hesitation that they want to fully contribute to these objectives and that they consider them necessary. They are motivated to do so and they would like to cooperate with me. I thought that was a very encouraging meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u162	Someone had to be "dedicated"? Shall we say, with a lot of effort?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u163	Excuse me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u164	"Dedicated," President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u165	That's even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u166	I would like to believe that all parties are committed, but it must lead to concrete results. Can the Court be kept informed of the progress of the implementation of that action plan? I understand that the code of conduct is not always going well. Good implementation of the code of conduct can, of course, help greatly in realising the ambition. What can the Minister do to ensure that this code of conduct is implemented even better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u167	The code of conduct was a good agreement between nature and environmental organisations and the sector. The code of conduct has been evaluated and it appears to be working well, because there have been major improvements. With Mrs Dik, however, I believe that it could be useful to broaden it. You can see if more parties can be involved and if a further impact is possible. On the basis of this evaluation, we will examine what improvements are still possible. However, the code of conduct is a significant step in the right direction, it is being applied at the moment and it is already leading to results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u168	I shall come back to the first part of my question on the action plan. We are getting signals from the country that practical problems are being encountered, for example with radar systems. That is something that needs to be resolved. I would very much like to be aware of the tightening up of the action plan, so that the Chamber, the Parliamentary Assembly, is convinced that we are going to achieve the last 25%, which seems very difficult to achieve by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u169	That is why I have also provided insight into the state of play. 5.250 megawatts will be realised by 2020. On top of that comes a part that is likely to be realized. Another part is a bit more difficult, and we focus on that part. Mrs Dik-Faber is right to make a point. She says there are places where you could put windmills, but they would disrupt radar traffic if you did. It's a coincidence. Another thing she might mention is the point of the quays. Rijkswaterstaat's policy was that windmills should not be built on quays. This, too, prevents good initiatives. However, improvements have been made in both areas. If a particular radar is not functioning properly if windmills are near it, the radar must be adjusted or a supporting radar must be placed in another location. We worked that out. We have almost agreed on this; I think this will work out. As far as quays are concerned, the "no' policy has changed into a "no' policy. This means that, if it is justified to place windmills on a quay, it will be involved. In both respects, therefore, an improvement or progress has been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u170	The minister just spoke about Drenthe, but he also expressed a number of frustrations towards the Chamber. In my first term, I mentioned to the Minister a frustration expressed by the Commissioner of the King Tichelaar. He said that if the government deals with us in this way, we will no longer be involved in the installation of windmills. I would like to have a reaction from the cabinet, from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u171	I know how drivers are supposed to function. I've been doing it myself for a long time, with the different governments. I know you have occasional disappointments to take in. Every once in a while, you react emotionally. I see this as an emotional reaction. I don't think it's realistic to tie everything together and cancel the other if one isn't to your liking. I don't think we're gonna get anywhere with that. With Mr Tichelaar, Commissioner of the King in Drenthe, I have always been able to work in a very good way and I would like to continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u172	In my first term, I talked about acceptance and participation. Also in Drenthe a lot of things went wrong. The SP Group has also pointed this out. A little empathic power towards this province would definitely adorn this cabinet. I would therefore ask the Minister sincerely: please have a conversation with Drenthe and make sure that this sort of thing goes away, otherwise this will really get in your way. We can say here a hundred times that Drenthe does not meet the demands we make here as a government, but it cannot be that Drenthe is constantly getting turned upside down by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u173	Drenthe and other provinces have agreed with me on the number of wind turbines to be installed, at least on the capacity of wind energy that will be realized. 6,000 megawatts split between the provinces. Drenthe is very behind in this and at the moment only 8% has been achieved. So Drenthe will really have to pull it out to make sure it gets what it's agreed on. For my part, I treat Drenthe carefully. The windmills I am currently working on are windmills that are placed in an area designated by the provincial government of Drenthe. I didn't think of that; that's what it came up with. In that area initiatives were therefore allowed and initiatives were also taken. When I got there, there were initiatives for 420 to 600 megawatts. I went to work with that. Eventually, 150 megawatts are left. The 150 megawatts comply exactly with all the legal requirements in the area of noise, distance and so on. I also have a positive EIA opinion on this. That's what I've put into procedure. I am very sensitive to the views of the people in Drenthe, the administrators, the residents and the others. I am in constant contact with them, but I must also ensure that I bring this decision-making process to a successful conclusion and that we keep the agreements we have made with each other. I'm working on it. I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u174	The Minister's right. 6,000 megawatts was the deal. It took the provinces seven years to divide them. Each province has a pro rata objective. We may ask all provinces to make their efforts and achieve their goals, but at the moment this has a number of effects for the population in Drenthe, which I think the Minister is also very unhappy about. He wants to handle Drenthe carefully. That's what he says. I had a few people visiting me the other day. There are a number of points...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u175	This is going to be a very long interruption. It can be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u176	I'm gonna cut it short, Mr. Chairman. People are concerned about a number of very concrete points. The minister might be able to help them. They have a number of questions about their health and the decline in the value of their homes. Can the Minister clarify that it is not at the expense of people's health and that it is handled in a good way if the windmills get there? As a result, these individuals are not the victims of a project of a number of people a lot further away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u177	As far as the fall in value is concerned, we have a scheme for planning damages, which is legally established. We need to apply this scheme to all relevant situations. I have already said that we meet the legal requirements for health. These are serious demands, which are aimed, among other things, at monitoring health interests. I have no reason to think there's a problem with that. The requirements for distance and noise, for example, are met.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u178	Thanks for the answer on the plan damage. In Drenthe there is a perception that this does not cover all the damage. Perhaps the Minister would like to look again at whether there are any concerns at this point that he can take away, such as the definition of what is under plan damage. Then there's health. The Minister puts a lot of time and energy into it and knows a lot about it, but not everyone in Drenthe may have read the same reassuring reports as the Minister. It might help to answer some of the questions that live in the province again. Perhaps that will not lead to new results, but if this can remove the feeling of fear and concern, then that would be worth a lot to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u179	I would like to look at what I can do in addition to Mrs van Veldhoven's suggestion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u180	What's happening here, of course, can't be. The PVV has been advocating much stricter requirements for those rotten windmills that affect people for years. Now there's a case in Drenthe. We support the people in Drenthe to move those windmills further away from homes so that there is no nuisance and to compensate for the damage to the plans, the damage that people have. But the whole of the Netherlands has been damaged by these things. There are windmills in Brielle. In Goedereede they are placed. Those bitches are placed everywhere in the Netherlands, and people have the same damage everywhere. Of course, it cannot be that the Minister is hard on one case in Drenthe because D66 asks for it, but that all the thousands of other citizens are left with their damage to their plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u181	Mr Madlener did not listen very carefully. In response to what Mrs Van Veldhoven has said, I said that there is an arrangement for damage to plans. We have made them to ensure that what is necessary and reasonable is done in these situations. This regulation is also applied in Brielle, and Mr Madlener can mention other places. It also applies to Drenthe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u182	This arrangement is seriously inadequate. There's a bottom in there that doesn't give you anything. It is very difficult for individuals to show how much value has fallen. Everywhere in the Netherlands, people have to deal with the decline in value caused by these damn windmills. Of course, it cannot be that the Minister is going to do his best for a specific case, but not for all the other people who have long been affected by the damage. In Heenvliet windmills are placed against the law. The judge said the procedures didn't go well, but they're there. People are stuck with the damage and they're not getting anything. I have asked the government many times to stand up for them, but she refuses. Now the minister's here saying she's gonna do her best in Drenthe. I really think that's double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u183	Mr Madlener repeats himself, while I think he has heard very well what I have said, namely that there is an arrangement for damage to plans. It also applies to Drenthe. Mr Madlener may be angry about some windmills that he believes would have been built in violation of the rules. I can say in response that thousands of windmills have been built in accordance with the rules. For the few cases where that would not be the case, I would point out the responsibility of the municipal administration. If construction is carried out in violation of the building regulations, the zoning plan or the permits granted, the municipality must take action against them. That's how it is in our country, in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u184	I just have a point of order. I have by no means merely asked to pay attention to Drenthe, by way of derogation from what applies in the rest of the Netherlands. Wherever there is planning damage, it must be compensated in the same way. I asked the Minister whether he would like to look again in particular at whether some of the unrest in Drenthe might be eliminated in the explanation of what these arrangements are all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u185	I'm aware of that, but I didn't quite get the point of order right now. It wasn't about order. It was a correction, from your point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u186	Exactly. It was a correction. It was a bit between a personal fact and a point of order, but it was suggested a number of times that D66, my party, would have suggested something, where the PVV mistranslated it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u187	Then I consider this a personal fact, of which I take note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u188	I would like to say something about the Borssele nuclear power plant, but perhaps it would be better if I came back to that later on in the light of the questions. Let me start immediately with the specific questions of the spokesmen. Mrs Dik-Faber asked a question about the ETS. That is the system by which we want to ensure that CO is properly priced. The system shall ensure that decisions take due account of the effects of CO emissions. I think the ETS is a good system. It is the good translation of our common desire to do something about what is the big problem, namely CO emissions, and to set up our policies there. It's fine to use such a price system for that. The system is not working well enough at the moment, and that is because there has been a period of economic contraction. That means there was more room than we originally thought. It is true that at the time we set a certain ceiling, a ceiling that is constantly falling and that we have not exceeded that ceiling. So that is another positive point. It has now been agreed in Europe that there will be a market stability reserve, which can temporarily remove the excess allowances I have just mentioned from the market. We also agreed to further reduce the ETS ceiling from 2021 onwards, i.e. the ceiling on CO emissions. The Dutch Government believes that these are good measures. However, we also think that, in addition to giving these measures a chance to work, we need to look at what is additional in order to ensure that the ETS works as well as possible as quickly as possible. I think it is useful to bring this important point to the attention of the Chamber once again, and I will do so together with the Secretary of State for I and M. I therefore intend to go into this matter in a letter in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u189	Can you give an approximate deadline for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u190	It is now the second half of March. I think that should be done by April at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u191	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u192	Mrs Dik-Faber also pointed out that our ambition to achieve results in the field of renewable energy and CO emissions should not be a maximum temperature increase of 2°C but a maximum increase of 1.5°C. She asks what the government is doing about it. First of all, what the government is doing is sticking to what we have agreed with each other in Europe for the short term, and making sure that we are all going to achieve it. We now know how important that is. We must also stick to the long-term target for 2050 to emit 80% to 95% less CO. In the context of the European Union, we agreed to look in 2018 at what might be needed for 2030 in terms of strengthening our ambitions and our actions. So that will happen in the year 2018. Then we can look at what the measures we have already decided on, how the economy is developing, how other countries are taking action and how they are strengthening policies in other parts of the world. This will then be translated into further action by us in Europe. The cabinet will again play a constructive role in this, because I believe that Europe should not lag behind in this major global problem, but should be part of the solution and play a stimulating role. Mrs Dik-Faber and others have spoken about biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u193	The Minister is now addressing a new issue, but Mrs Dik-Faber has another question on a subject that has just been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u194	Indeed, and that question is about the ETS. In the Chamber we have often found that it does not work in the current way. Additional measures will be considered in 2018, as outlined by the Minister. However, there is already a climate agreement, which sets out certain objectives, including, if possible, maximum warming of 1.5°C. Surely it would make sense to link the review of the ETS to the ambitions of that climate agreement as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u195	I didn't say we're waiting until 2018. I've just indicated that we've already taken measures. I mention the built-in reserve and the further lowering of the ceiling. So measures have already been taken. We will also examine the possibilities for further development in preparation for 2018. The ETS with that decreasing ceiling and the reserve that we have built in is, in my opinion, the right system. This will need to be strengthened, especially in relation to the Paris climate agreement. When we talk about how, in the longer term, following the Paris climate agreement, we need to strengthen our policies, I think that the tightening of the ETS will be an important part of this. The link Mrs Dik-Faber sees between ETS and Paris is a logical one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u196	Mrs Dik, perhaps you could continue to do so in the second term? Or do you have an urgent question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u197	I still have a supplementary question. The debate on the revision of the ETS system has been rather difficult in Europe. Can the Minister imagine working with the neighbouring countries in this respect, should the European pathway go too far? The point is that we are going to look at things like a minimum price for CO, as England has done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u198	This kind of thing can only be solved internationally. This must be done at global and European level. If you do things within the Benelux or in the Netherlands, you get yourself into trouble, while the waterbed effect does not lead to results elsewhere. It's much better to do it internationally. We have played a positive role in the context of COP21 and we also play this positive role in Europe, both in relation to the European CO emissions and renewable energy targets and in relation to the European objective of improving the functioning of the ETS system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u199	It is a pity to hear that Minister Kamp rejects the imported bottom price in the ETS system in England. I have asked two specific questions in areas dealt with by the Minister. I am not sure whether I should wait now for my individual questions to be answered or whether I should go into them now. It's about Shell and Tata Steel regarding ETS. As far as land wind is concerned, motions have been tabled since 2011 with a lot of acceleration ideas. Is the Minister going to come back to that or should I ask about it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u200	When the Minister began his reply, but at that time you were not yet present, he said that he would take some questions with him when answering any questions from other Members. Maybe you can wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u201	I will certainly come back to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u202	He said it at the beginning of the reply, but you were not in the Chamber at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u203	I'd like to make that right. I was in the corridors and I heard the Minister say this. I often debate with this minister. Sometimes you get the answer in the general block and sometimes when answering the individual questions. On these two points, I would like to make a specific check. I have the answer to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u204	Mrs Dik also spoke about alternatives to biomass. We need to realise what we are doing with biomass. So we have the long-term targets for CO emissions reduction and for renewable energy, but we have also said that we need to achieve results in the short term. Every time the Chamber says again and again, Mr Vos has said that someone has been visiting with a list that says that the Netherlands did not do well enough in terms of renewable energy. We hear that from different sides, but we also agreed that we are going to do this. So we are going to achieve results by 2020. We have also defined how to achieve it. I'll do the maximum for wind on land. If one of the MPs thinks I can achieve more windmills on land by 2020 than 6,000 MW, let me tell you. For wind at sea, we have put a lot of pressure on the matter by launching five large wind farms over a period of five years. Two of them are already running; maybe three in the year 2020 and the others are running in the year 2023. Also with geothermal and solar energy we extract what is maximum possible, but in order to achieve the 14%, I also need the extra and most of biomass. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to do the same, because I want to get it 14%. We have said that we must use biomass responsibly. So we have established sustainability criteria, which are the sharpest in the world. We have also established a control system on the criteria, which I believe is the best control system in the world. In doing so, we have done so responsibly. I don't think we're gonna be there with that. I think that is how we are getting a flow of biomass to the Netherlands. It is now the challenge to make better use of that biomass. That's what we're doing. All kinds of initiatives in this area are also supported. In the project where Mrs Van Veldhoven went to look, biomass is roasted without oxygen. The products that come out of it can be used very well again. That is also a project that we support. There is also a large plant in Borculo of FrieslandCampina, which is entirely based on pyrolysis oil; that is oil from biomass. We also finance them through the SDE+ scheme. So we are working on a very broad front to ensure that we make better use of biomass. I am also talking to the chemical industry about this. I think it would be useful for Mrs van Veldhoven, Mrs Dik-Faber and others to discuss this more often, as soon as I am a little further along, in the course of this year with the chemical industry and with the various innovations that are going on, to look at what could be a realistic level of ambition and a realistic timeframe to make better use of biomass through cascading than is currently happening. That doesn't mean I have to let go of that 25 PJ by 2020. If I do, I will also release the 14% target. The Chamber knows I'm not willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u205	I am well aware of the Minister's last point. I was visiting a company the other day that brought out exactly the same thing. All biomass subsidies no longer allow them to compete well. They asked us to stop doing that. I would like to return to another point made by the Minister. This is my first interruption. The Minister said that Andrew Steer was here yesterday and that Steer said that things are not going well in the Netherlands. But I tried to put in the opposite in my first term: things are going very well in the Netherlands. In the next few years, we will be passing six or seven countries in the field of renewable energy. I said that the Minister who sits here in 2020 and will receive the compliments for this will reap the benefits of the hard work that has been done here today. I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u206	The Minister doesn't have to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u207	No, I am grateful to Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u208	I very much welcome the Minister's commitment to come up with a plan this year with more hands and feet on cascading. We know that we share that objective. Is the Minister prepared to include that 25 PJ in the thinking? I'm not asking him to make a statement as to whether he's going to implement it like this, but to include that 25 PJ. It's 4 billion. It would be very nice if we could achieve a little more for the Dutch economy than just the 14% renewable energy share.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u209	I need that 25 PJ to get that 14%. I know that 14% should not be sacred, but I think we need these tough targets to achieve the desired progress, given our international position, our ambition and our agreements on renewable energy. From this conviction, I am not prepared to do anything that will result in us not achieving 14%. If I promise now that I'm going to use a particle of that 25 PJ to do other things and the effect is that I'm not gonna make it up to 14%, that's not good. I'm not gonna do that. I want to do both. So I want to start that biomass stream, I want to achieve that 14% target, and I want to make this cascading a reality. I'm working on that. I'm also talking to the chemical industry about that. The chemical industry is interested in it itself. I think that with the start of this high-quality biomass flow to the Netherlands, which meets all reasonable criteria and is well controlled, we have created the starting position to make progress on cascading as soon as possible. I'll try very hard for that. But I'm not gonna nibble on that 25 PJ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u210	But I didn't ask the minister to do that either. I asked him if he was willing to include that 25 PJ in the thought of cascading. The Minister presents this as a contradiction, which I do not think there is at all. With that 25 PJ, we can also start that cascading if we do it smartly. Is the Minister prepared to ask how this 25 PJ can help to involve him in his thoughts and considerations next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u211	Aren't we? If the biomass that meets the sustainability requirements and is well controlled is started and we use it for the additional and most of it because of the 14% ambition by 2020, we can also use it for another purpose. You can then use more and more for a different purpose, which is more high-quality than directly co-incinerating coal plants. It is also conceivable that you will have a residual product that you can still keep up with and control if you use it in a different way. If Mrs Van Veldhoven means that I must continue to establish sensible relationships and seek between our ambition for 25 PJ biomass and our ambition for cascading, I am certainly prepared to do so in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u212	I would nevertheless like to raise the question of how much of that 25 PJ is sustainable. The Academy has made a very handy summary of two pages with an analysis of sustainability taking into account the fact that you have to cut down forests in North America and that their growth rate is much lower than what you're hiding here. Wood emissions are high compared to coal and oil. The energy value of fresh biomass is low. What's sustainable about that 25 PJ anyway? Have we consulted enough people with knowledge of plant production before we even started doing so? I would ask this also in view of the enormous amount of subsidy involved in this part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u213	Even if I had not set sustainability criteria and even if I had not set up a control system, I would still be able to meet the requirements of the European Commission in its directive with that biomass. The Commission says that biomass is renewable energy. However, we are going one step further. We have brought together the natural and environmental organisations and the sector. They have negotiated with each other and it has come out that in the Netherlands, I know, the strictest criteria for biomass in the world apply. We then looked at what is the best control system we can give up on that. We have agreed on this, but we have seen that the best system could not be fully deployed immediately. That's just not technically possible. So we have agreed a growth path for that. In a number of years we will go to the best control system. If you have the most stringent criteria with the best control system, I think I've done what I can reasonably do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u214	Doesn't the work of the Academy just fit in? Or does the Minister think: enough people have looked at it, this doesn't add anything? They're not the first ones to set this up. It's not some beer club or anything like that this pamphlet wrote on a late afternoon. No, there's just a lot of knowledge from a high-ranking university behind it. I would expect the Minister to do more with it than he is now showing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u215	Yeah, but I have to move on, too. I can't go back to questioning things all the time. It is clear that biomass is sustainable for the 2020-2023 objectives. That is what I gave my hands and feet with those criteria and with that control system. And then I'm gonna have to move on. Then investment must be made, then results must be achieved. I think it's okay if people write articles and have insights, and I'm willing to look at them too. But if there's the idea that co-incineration of biomass isn't right, that we should stop doing that, that we should close coal plants and that it'll all work out, then that's a slightly different angle from what I've chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u216	The Minister has also sometimes shown that biomass is also not the ideal way to achieve the agreed objectives. He is helped by the European Commission's dg climate, which has said that the Dutch biomass subsidies are insanely high. That's not very diplomatic, but it does hit the core. Following that ruling, did the Minister consider the possibility of changes? We are now working with a billion-dollar grant, but there are also other models conceivable, for example an additional obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u217	The European Commission has set out in a directive what the countries of Europe should have achieved in the year 2020 in terms of renewable energy. The European Commission, for which this Mr dg climate also works, has said that nuclear energy is not one of them. You can question that, and I understand that Mr Geurts and Mr Madlener are inclined to do the same. I could do that myself, but it has been established that nuclear power is not one of them. It has also been established that biomass is part of it. We then set up a system that ensures that biomass, now that it is included, is also used. That's our SDE+ system. The same European Commission says that the SDE+ system is the best system and sets an example for other countries. We allow different forms of energy to compete on price and then we make subsidies for the form of energy with the lowest possible price. This also applies to biomass, and so it is not the case that money is being used. On the contrary, costs are incurred to generate renewable electricity and then the difference between the price of that electricity and the price of fossil electricity is subsidised. That's the system and it's really a mystery to me how you call that insane. For my part, let me not use strong words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u218	It was the words of the dg climate. I hear what the Minister is saying, but at the same time I find it really unimaginable that we are subsidising biomass by 3 to 4 billion. My question remains as to whether there are any other ways of encouraging coal power stations to put their biomass improvements in order. So I am thinking, for example, of an additional obligation. We are not working with a subsidy, but with an obligation, and I understand that this may make the coal plants less competitive. Anyway, now our relatively clean gas plants are off. So it could perhaps serve a double purpose and thus we could bring the CO reduction targets closer again more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u219	Was the Christian Union not one of the parties who felt that all coal plants should be closed down? If the coal plants are all closed, how can you force them to cook biomass? That's impossible, isn't it? So it's not consistent what you're doing. Nor do I find your attitude constructive. You talk about that biomass every time. If you think that biomass should not be co-fired, you should table a motion. You make five motions each time, and now you are simply tabling a motion stating that the 14% should be reduced to 12.8% by 2020. This biomass accounts for 1.2%, and if you want to get a line through it, put it to the Chamber. We'll see what the Chamber thinks. I can already tell you that I will discourage that motion. I believe that we must stick to our commitments. I want to stick to the coalition agreement. I want to stick to the energy agreement. I want to abide by the European directive. I want to stick to COP21. I would like to stick to the Urgendavonnis until an appeal has been made. I'm going to discourage such a motion from you!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u220	Mr President, I am a little challenged here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u221	No, you're being very challenged!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u222	Sure. I have said from the outset on behalf of the Christian Union that the subsidy for biomass is absolutely not worthy of the beauty prize and that we are prepared to accept a lower target if that subsidy goes off. It is about billions, and I think it is better to put it into really clean energy and really innovative techniques. The Christian Union is therefore prepared to make that choice, however sad I am. I do want to get rid of these coal plants as quickly as possible. The Minister has said this very well, but with the SDE+ we must also be very careful not to be stuck with a coal power plant for years, because we have committed ourselves to a long-term subsidy. The same applies to a most common obligation. If that is my plea, of course, but that must be limited in time, because I do not want any obligation or subsidy to keep a coal power station open longer than is necessary. That's what I'm gonna explain. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u223	One moment it is not consistent to call for all coal plants to be closed down as soon as possible, and the other moment it is in favour of imposing an additional and most common obligation on them. One moment saying that the energy agreement is good and must be respected, and the other moment saying that 12.8% can be done by 2020 is not consistent either. I'm trying to be consistent by dissuading that motion if you made such a motion. Suppose Mr Smaling comes with a motion in which he says that there must be a line through the wind farm in Drenthe and that there must be a line through the wind farm in Groningen. I don't know exactly how much percent that is, but if it's 0.4%, then that 12.8% can be reduced by 0.4% and you're even lower. So I don't want that! I know that there are many problems and that it is difficult and difficult in many respects, but the objective we have set is an important objective. We must make the transition to renewable energy, and this must be done in a responsible way. I am working hard on that, but I want to stick to that objective, because I am convinced that this is necessary for the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u224	A few spokesmen will certainly come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u225	What a bizarre debate this is! An objective is agreed, which then leads to very perverse things like building the Netherlands with windmills and increasing taxes by billions. And that to do with that money? To cut down trees and woods in Canada. I want the people who are watching this debate to understand what it is about. SDE+ doesn't say much to people, but what the Minister intends to do is to use EUR 3 to 4 billion of taxpayers' money that he takes from the citizens, to cut down forests in other countries, to supposedly achieve the environmental objectives. It's crazy. I would like the Minister to answer the question of how much forest is being cut down. Is that an area as big as the province of Utrecht or something? How am I supposed to imagine that? How many trees, how many forests should disappear thanks to this billion-dollar grant?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u226	I always have difficulty with the way Mr Madlener and his fellow party members' questions on renewable energy have been built up, because they start with such ridiculous introductions. He calls it a bizarre thing to build windmills. I would like to say to Mr Madlener: look around the world. Look in China; there they build windmills. Take a look in America, where they build windmills, just like in Germany, Denmark, England, Belgium, the Netherlands. Everywhere we build windmills, because we think that windmills are important for the short term in order to make the transition to renewable energy. We believe that this transition to renewable energy is necessary. That's why we do that. That's not weird. What is bizarre is that you call it bizarre, Mr Madlener, I say through you, Mr President. Well, let's talk about cutting down the woods. It is not the case that we are looking for a forest for biomass somewhere. It is true that trees are being cut down and that the wood is being used, leaving a waste product of wood. You can use that. It is also true that there is a production forest that you could use for that purpose. What you do and what you can't use for that purpose, there are sustainability criteria for that. I have just gone into these sustainability criteria and their monitoring in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u227	It's all talk that's not about anything. It's just a fact that if you want to buy 3.5 billion biomass in the world, then trees will be cut for that, and not so little. I would like the Minister to tell us how much that is about, so that people in the country know that the tax that this minister is imposing on people is being spent on tree hoods in Canada. I want every citizen to know what the VVD and this government are doing here. So I'm gonna ask you again. Are you prepared to make clear how many trees are disappearing in the coal plants in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u228	I heard these stories yesterday in the First Chamber from the PVV and now I hear them again. I think the people in the country are very well aware of what we are talking about. What we are talking about is that 195 countries in the world are concerned about the risks of climate change. This is caused by CO emissions, greenhouse gas emissions. Measures must be taken to this end. We have looked at what kind of measures that could be, and we have agreed on this. The Netherlands is in the process of implementing these agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u229	Mr President, on a point of order. You also want answers to be given to questions. I have asked a specific question and I am not getting an answer from the Minister. I appreciate the Minister's answers, but in this case I just really want to know what it means to the Dutchman and what happens to his tax dollars. I have asked a clear question: how many trees, or how many forest areas, will be cut off with the 4 billion tax increase? It seems to me very real that the Minister should answer that question, or at least find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u230	You speak to me and I will give you an answer. You have the right to ask all kinds of questions here. My opinion is that, if you want answers, you may be a little more polite to our guest here in the house. If you say that it is 'practical for the often', I do not think that is a pleasant way to debate it. But I can't forbid you to do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u231	May I object to this? I think I am asking a question in a very correct way. What's wrong with me calling something "practical for the often"? Can't I say anything here at all? I think that's very common language. I'm not calling anybody names. I have a question and it will not be answered twice. I ask you as President to act, because I know that you are keen that questions from the Chamber should be answered. It's not just about nothing, it's about 4 billion in tax increases, which cut down the forest in Canada. I find that bizarre and I simply ask for a clear and concrete answer, so that the Dutch taxpayer knows what this government is doing with its tax dollars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u232	Sure. I let that go, too, but then you spoke to me and you asked me to find something. That's what I told you. I would ask the Minister to answer Mr Madlener's specific question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u233	I do not know what Mr Madlener expects of me now. Does he expect me to say that this is 435,000 hectares? I can't say. What I can say is this. When we talk about biomass, we talk about wood from trees that are harvested and whose boards, the wood, are used. Those trees are garbage wood, too. That garbage can be a good destination for you. It will be peeled and then the pellets will be brought to Europe, where they will be used. In addition, you have production forests, fast growing forests, which are especially there for this purpose. Those trees grow, extract CO from the air, bind it, and then the CO is brought back into the air when it is co-fired in coal plants. That is better for the environment than if you take the coal out of the ground and then burn it, because then you get extra CO in the air. With the biomass, you get CO in the air that you took out first. To assess whether this is justified or not, we have the sustainability criteria. Those are the sharpest in the world, and we apply them. That is my answer to Mr Madlener's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u234	Mr Madlener, at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u235	You heard my story, and I think everyone heard it. Here's what I want to know. If you buy 4 billion in biomass in the world, how many trees will disappear in the Dutch power stations? That's a very specific question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u236	I'm not gonna answer a question for the third time. I've given the answer twice. If Mr Madlener wants to take the answer again, he can just read what I said the first and second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u237	I welcomed this collective debate and the somewhat optimistic tone and the technical questions. I am sorry that we are apparently getting a little upset on several sides. However, I would like to continue on the point made by the Christian Union and in my view the Minister reacted in a slightly tormented way. I do not know that very well from this minister, because he usually remains very substantive. There is a possibility to use biomass. That is a European commitment. However, Europe has never said that we should do so in large numbers. Both the Christian Union and GroenLinks made a point of this when the energy agreement was concluded. We said at the time that we would much rather have a system change. I also mentioned the point of the lock-in earlier. Once you have a windmill, you can only generate clean energy. However, if you make a coal power station a little less dirty by burning trees, that power station is dirty again at a time when the subsidy is no longer there. So it has been a conscious choice in the energy agreement to put away such a large piece of biomass. I would like to hear from the Minister that it is simply this cabinet's choice to do so in the energy agreement and that it is not the only way to achieve cleaner energy in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u238	I've been involved in this process from the beginning. In the PvdA and VVD groups, when the cabinet was formed, the question was discussed as to what the ambitions for renewable energy should be. The question of what to include in'sustainable energy' was then discussed. We have, of course, chosen to use what the European Commission has laid down in a directive on this subject. Then I became the minister who had to do all that. I have therefore been working from the outset to see how I could achieve the 16% target by 2020. I couldn't do that. I've talked it over with the whole field. With all the parties involved, we have said: it will have to be in 2023, but by 2020 we will have to reach 14%. I have maxed out all the elements that can contribute to achieving the 14% ambition for renewable energy by 2020. What we do with wind at sea, five times 700 MW extra in five years, is truly spectacular. For what we do to land winds, Members know how difficult it is in the country to do that. I really need biomass. If I don't use the 25 PJ that I'm allowed to use as much as possible under the energy agreement, I'm not gonna make it up to 14%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u239	GroenLinks understands that. But it is a list of choices that have been made consciously by this cabinet; other parties have a different view on it. They have also expressed them from the beginning. GroenLinks is one of those parties, and if I remember correctly, so was the Christian Union. Directly when the energy agreement was concluded, we said that it was an exchange with the coal sector: the coal tax will be cut off and a subsidy will be paid for the coal plants, and then new power stations will be opened in the Netherlands. So it's a choice; it's not the only way to get clean energy. That is the only point I would like to make in this interruption: it is the government's choice. The minister rules and GroenLinks does not rule, but there are other choices possible. That is why it is not wrong for parties to say: if they had made a different choice, we would not have had to co-finance 4 billion in those coal plants. That is the only point I wish to make in this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u240	I do not think that Mrs Van Tongeren as spokesperson for GroenLinks is playing nicely again; I think that GroenLinks here in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber supports me in my ambition to honour the agreements made. But saying that you think that the target should be met does not bear saying that you think that the biomass option should not be used. You can't realize one thing if you don't want the other. I can also keep nice stories. I certainly do not mean negative to Mrs Van Tongeren or to other spokesmen why you should not choose the biomass option. But I am convinced that I can keep much more beautiful stories about achieving the objectives we have agreed on. We need those windmills and we need biomass. There will be other developments in technology and at some point windmills may not be needed anymore and biomass may be able to be used in a much better way. But for the short term, I need them. You cannot say to me, on the one hand, 'let go of biomass and most of it' and, on the other hand, say to me,'realize 14%'. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u241	Before I give Mr Wassenberg the floor for an interruption for the first time, let me look at the clock, the Members and the Minister. We still have quite a bit of the answer to go, is my impression, and...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u242	Mr President, I am working on the first spokesperson, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u243	Exactly. I am not blaming you, because you have now spoken net 22 minutes, while you have been speaking for 1 hour and 15 minutes. However, I would ask Members to restrict themselves somewhat from now on. That does not apply to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party, because he has not yet asked for anything. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u244	I'd like to take a look at the part about biomass. I'm a little surprised at the Secretary of State's rigidity. There are serious doubts about the co-incineration of biomass. The Minister points out the energy agreement. The Animal Party was also very critical about this, but the Minister pretends that the energy agreement is a natural law that cannot be broken, rather than an agreement between a number of parties. Of course, the energy agreement can be broken! If you are critical and stop co-incineration biomass, if you stop putting billions into it, that does not mean that the soil is covered by renewable energy. Then that means that you can make other choices, that you can bet more on sun and wind. Can the Minister respond to the argument that it is not a natural law, but a choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u245	I hope one day that Mr Wassenberg will not say that it is rigidity on my part, but determination. I am determined to get the agreements made implemented as well. I am in a position where I can make an important contribution to this. I think I should. The 14% agreement before 2020 is not a natural law, but it is a crucial agreement that I have to hold on to. I believe that I must take advantage of all the possibilities of achieving that 14%. I'm doing the maximum wind on land and wind at sea I can do between now and 2020. I also do the maximum for geothermal energy, solar energy, manure digestion and biomass. I need them all to get that 14%. I hope that works. I can't guarantee that. The only guarantee I can give is that I will do my utmost to do so and that I will be determined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u246	I do not doubt the Minister's intentions either, but the Minister himself mentions the example of manure fermentation. Surely it is worth considering whether you can invest the money that is being invested in those polluting techniques that are now being sold under the guise of sustainable technology? Can't you at least try to be creative and see what else is possible? It's about billions. You can buy a lot of solar panels from that. You can improve the technique and set up wind farms. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u247	Mr Wassenberg mentioned the example of manure fermentation. I can assure him that I am very intensively engaged in manure fermentation. I'm trying to get all the parties involved excited about that. I can do that. The largest industrial companies are motivated and do their best to do so. Together we develop plans for manure fermentation. I'll do the same for all the other parts. Mr Wassenberg is talking about innovation; we are constantly stimulating innovation! Whether it is a tidal industry, a variety of variants in which we use biomass better, or new techniques that are not yet much of a proposal but which could possibly come out in the future, I am doing this with conviction. I understand that in the longer term the choices we are making can be replaced by better ones, but as long as those better choices are not there, are not affordable or cannot be applied on a sufficiently large scale, I must use the techniques that are now available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u248	Mr Wassenberg, only if it is not repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u249	Not a repeat of moves, but a small correction. The Minister misunderstands me or wants to misunderstand me. I mentioned manure fermentation as the least sustainable way to generate energy. We are trying to solve a problem that should not have been there at all. We must not go to burning or fermenting manure, but to reducing the amount of manure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u250	I can assure Mr Wassenberg that I am determined to understand him well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u251	Okay. The Minister continues his speech. I suggest to the Chamber that we listen to that and save some interruptions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u252	Mrs. Dik-Faber asked for an update on the zero-on-the-meter houses. As a cabinet, we are working with strength on those zero-on-the-meter houses. We have agreed a separate Accelerating approach to this. I also make the most of the concrete opportunities to make a flying start, particularly in Groningen. We have made it possible for housing companies to apply for energy performance compensation. That trajectory is almost complete. We have worked out the Power Accelerating project for the rental sector and are now working on it for the purchasing sector as well. For zero-on-the-meter homes, both in the rental sector and in the purchasing sector, it is important to reduce costs. The projects currently being carried out in Groningen are costly projects. There, too, it is necessary to make that start and to raise industrial production capacity and knowledge among contractors. It is really necessary to reduce costs. It's up to the market to do that. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the Building Decision. We have already established that from the year 2025 new construction must be almost energy neutral. That is where we have already taken an important step. Then I come to the decommissioning of the Borssele nuclear power plant. I have not seen any calculation that closing it would be more financially advantageous than if the nuclear power plant were to continue operating until 2033 as planned. On the contrary, I have seen calculations showing that this would not be financially justified. We're talking about that nuclear power plant right now. It is the first responsibility of the owner, EPZ, and the first responsibility of the shareholders of EPZ. We are in contact with them to see to what extent the position of that nuclear power plant is currently being secured, what it may require and how different parties have an interest in it and are involved in it. However these discussions run, there is no doubt in our minds that we must ensure security. We will ensure that it never comes into question. As far as the future of that power station is concerned, there is quite a bit going on in Zeeland. We're talking about that. If those talks are concluded and conclusions can be drawn, I will certainly share them with the Chamber. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked about the possibility of nationalising the nuclear power plant and its costs. I can't tell you what the cost is right now. I do know that running a nuclear power plant is not a core business of the government. Nor does it fit in with our state participation policy to do so. The cabinet has no plans to consider nationalisation as an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u253	Please continue. We would listen to the minister and save the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u254	I'm going on. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about employment in Borssele. As you know, this is a committee headed by Mr Balkenende. Zeeland is the province with the lowest unemployment rate. The committee will come forward with its findings at the end of April and we will undoubtedly discuss this with the Chamber. I'll get to PALLAS. PALLAS is the high flux reactor in North Holland. It is used for research purposes, but medical isotopes are also produced. Mr Bosman said that 30% of the world's production of medical isotopes for the detection and treatment of cancers comes from that high flux reactor in Petten. 50% comes from a reactor in Canada, but it closes in 2018. Because that reactor is there and because we need it for the Netherlands, but also because we are a supplier to others in the world, I feel a responsibility to deal with it in a sensible way. The cabinet, like the previous cabinet, has said that there is a chance. If there is a real medical need in the world for isotopes and we can provide them, we must do so. Together with the province of Noord-Holland we have taken an initiative to create a new reactor there. That's the PALLAS reactor. A separate foundation has been set up for this purpose and that foundation has received a grant to do the necessary preparatory work and to make plans. I say "grant," but the foundation received a loan to finance it. The loan was then extended in order to be able to make the tender. At the moment, people are busy working on this. The procurement process is currently under way. Once a party has emerged from it, it will be considered what it will cost, what that party wants to do, whether that party wants to finance it and whether funding can be arranged. Then the government can withdraw from it, because in the end the reactor in Petten must function on the basis of a healthy business case. Based on this healthy business case, the reactor must meet the need for medical isotopes in the Netherlands and elsewhere in the world. With such a reactor, we can create an important supply for North Holland as well. In Petten there is knowledge in the field of nuclear installations and that knowledge provides employment and also money. I think that's a good thing. If this can be further developed in a responsible way, then that must be done, we and the province of North Holland think. At some point it has to be considered whether this business case is there and whether parties wish to invest in it. In preparation for that moment I am now working very hard, together with the foundation, to try to get the conditions for that. I have just said that the Balkenende Committee will come forward with its findings at the end of April. That was wrong. As I have said before, I have to repeat this now. The Balkenende Committee will be presenting its report at the beginning of June. I hope to have the cabinet response to the Chamber before the recess. So much for the points made by Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u255	I think this is a good time to allow an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u256	I would like to come back to the Borssele nuclear power plant. There have been several interrupting debates when I was standing at the microphone. The cost of keeping the power station open, the cost of dismantling the power station and the cost of nationalizing the power station was not entirely clear at the time. Is the Minister prepared to list this and share it with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u257	At some point that will certainly have to be done, but at the moment it is necessary to allow the owner EPZ and the shareholder to act accordingly. They have asked for consultations with the Empire on this matter. That consultation is under way. If conclusions can be drawn from this, then questions can also be answered as Mrs Dik-Faber now suggests. Right now it's too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u258	The Minister states that it is too early, but I see that guarantees are now being requested with public funds; hence my question. Is it true that the decision to keep the nuclear power plant open until 2033 was taken in 2006, ten years ago? Isn't it very logical to build in moments to keep decisions under review, including the financial picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u259	Mrs. Dik Faber says it was 2006. I don't have another year in my memory, so that could certainly be true. The decision was then taken to run the nuclear power plant until the year 2033. Investment has also been made on this, which needs to be recouped. We want to use this period to secure money in a fund that is again needed to dismantle that power plant in 2033. It's all connected. There is now a special situation due to the low electricity price and the difficulties encountered by the company DELTA, a major shareholder of this power plant alongside RWE. A new situation has arisen as a result of which the owner EPZ and the shareholders have sought consultation with the Empire. That consultation is under way. As soon as information is available, so will I.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u260	I was just having second thoughts. I asked this same question in a debate with Minister Dijsselbloem in the context of state participations. I tabled a motion at the time and there was also a motion from the PvdA on the same subject. There it was said that it would be mapped out what was going on around Borssele. The Chamber asks for information on the various costs. We heard that from the VVD. I asked. Now the Christian Union is asking it and the PvdA has asked it before, in another debate. Can the Minister indicate how we can obtain information to see what keeping open would cost, what closing would cost and how that story works? There are a lot of questions on that subject. We all understand that the Minister does not have the answers standing by the meeting. How can we get there? Otherwise, we'll have to put in a set of written questions. That seems to me to be a rather sloppy parliamentary figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u261	I assume that when the Chamber discussed this with my colleague Mr Dijsselbloem, the answer was not so enlightening that Mrs Van Tongeren is now asking these questions twice. I assume that Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Tongeren consider it relevant to ask me this question. I'll answer that as best I can. We are currently working with the owners, the shareholders of the nuclear power plant, to face the situation. Once that meeting is concluded, we can inform the Chamber of Representatives about this. The information that Mrs Van Tongeren is now asking for can therefore be included. I think that's the best way. The Chamber can, of course, adopt motions and ask written questions. I will always do my best to respond to that as best I can. In the meantime, I will continue with this consultation and try to reach common conclusions. I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u262	Of course, the Minister will continue with all his consultations and administrative actions. The Chamber would like to be able to control the government, including on this subject. A motion from the PvdA has been adopted, but it has yet to be implemented. The same goes for Dodewaard. The Chamber, or at least this party, would like the same information. Once again, I ask if we are in the way of the Minister. Do we make it impossible for him to negotiate properly if we ask for this information? Is that the underlying reason why the Minister cannot at present give the Chamber an insight into the difference between the costs of keeping open on the one hand, and those of working towards nationalising or closing on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u263	I would like to leave it to my colleague, the Minister for Finance, on what information exchange with the Chamber he considers desirable. Mrs Van Tongeren says that motions for resolutions have been adopted. My colleague will respond to that. For my part, I can say what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u264	You were now ready to answer Mrs van Veldhoven's contribution, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u265	Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about the transfer of the energy agreement. I have already discussed what we have had to do in order to arrive at a joint conclusion within the Committee on Boring that we can also achieve the 14% target by 2020. Some of the measures agreed have been passed on, some of them have not. We're working on that part right now. The review of the Energy Agreement is scheduled to take place in October. That information will be part of that. We then have everything that needs to be calculated again, also recently taken measures and choices. Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke extensively about cascading. That's what I've been working on. With regard to innovation objectives, like Mrs Van Veldhoven, we strongly believe that innovation is of the utmost importance. This is true in the broad sense, but certainly also in the energy field. I think that we in the Netherlands should be able to do something about innovation. I hope that the attention that now exists at D66 will also be shared by others and that this will continue to be so in the years to come. I think that would be good for the Netherlands. 2% of gross domestic product goes to innovation, while there are also countries with 3%, 3.5% or 4%. So it is certainly not the case that we are spending too much money on this. Innovation in energy is taking place in the top energy sector. We also have a separate subsidy scheme for this. We're also always looking for ways to do things extra. I think we are doing enough for energy in terms of innovation. However, I think this is an important point, including for the evaluation. So if we are going to evaluate the energy agreement, we will see whether we can be satisfied on this point or whether it is necessary to do more about it and, if so, how we can finance it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u266	You probably had more answers to give to Mrs Van Veldhoven, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u267	Excuse me. I'm just gonna keep going. I think it's so rude to keep going, but I'm just doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u268	Blame me, Minister. We are doing the interruptions at the end of the full response of the speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u269	Mrs. Van Veldhoven asked to give Drenthe a few months' grace to look at alternative locations. It is not possible for Drenthe with alternative locations to make a timely contribution to the 14% target and to the part of the 6,000 MW target they are required to deliver. It can't be. Drenthe's way behind and has to catch up. This includes De Drentse Monden and Oostermoer. The final conclusion on what exactly that is going to mean for that park is that I will not be able to give until I come to decisions on the points of view. I have already addressed the health questions relating to the park in Drenthe. Then the profile for the area coordinator. The area coordinator plays an important role, especially in plans that have been going on for some time and are now on the verge of realising them. This is the case with the park in Drenthe, but so are other parks. This area coordinator plays an important role in this. Mrs Van Veldhoven says that such an area coordinator should also have the confidence of the environment. I agree with her. That must be the case. However, there is also a need for interaction. You have to be willing as an environment to give someone who deserves it the trust. However, I agree with her that this is important. That is why, for example, in the case of Drenthe, I did not make the choice for the area coordinator myself. I have done so together with the province and both of the municipalities involved. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked how we could keep innovative companies in the Netherlands. She called the company Avantium. I can't deny I had to swallow when I read that company was going to Belgium. That's because the company was helped by us from the very beginning. We have used all the arrangements that were in place to bring that company to maturity from the very beginning. We put a lot of money into that. Then one of these companies says: now it's done and now we're going to see where we're going. It then makes a list on which, for example, America, the Netherlands and Belgium stand and asks to come up with proposals. They check it out and then choose Belgium at some point. Like I said, I had to swallow when I read that. I know we can compete on our own. We have a very attractive country for those kinds of companies. We have a well-organized chemical industry with clusters that such a company can very well be part of. We also have very good facilities to help companies finance, even at the stage that this company is in today's condition. I'm sorry it didn't work out, but it often does. I believe that our arrangements and our general position are such that we can compete with other countries in the world to hold on to this type of business. I hope that Mrs Van Veldhoven has now received the answers to the other questions she has asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u270	With all these questions, it's almost hard to choose what you want to ask a follow-up question about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u271	That's exactly why I'm doing it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u272	I have no illusions about that, Mr President. Let me start with the latter. Yeah, we do have a lot. In the competition between countries for the most beautiful and the best companies it is therefore important to stay sharp. In the transition to green gas we have a party like Gasunie, which has a lot of knowledge and skills. This knowledge and skills are necessary for innovative companies to move forward. However, we must be careful about the role played by a party such as Gasunie, an infrastructure company. Is the Minister prepared to look again at how cooperation at initial stages with, for example, a company like Gasunie can further help innovative companies to take that step to the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u273	I believe that Mrs van Veldhoven has recently been to Gasunie. Gasunie does that very well. It supports this type of new initiative and plays a very constructive role in it. However, we have agreed that the task of a network company is to manage that network, to invest in it and to generate its energy. Gasunie is not in favour of producing renewable energy in any form whatsoever. She can't. It is not so easy to answer the question of what exactly is allowed and what is not. I will look at what is reasonably possible within the division of labour we have agreed on. Gasunie's attitude is ambitious, because it seeks to ensure that what it has in its home is of social importance. I appreciate that attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u274	Fine. For electricity network companies, we came up with an experimental scheme at some point. Perhaps this will also offer more opportunities for these parties without abandoning the structural, principled position. It's nice if the Minister would take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u275	Okay. Mr Madlener said, among other things, that he is opposed to the government's energy policy, which is destroying the country. That puts his story in a light, so I can't do very much with it, because of course we're not trying to destroy the country. We are also working to provide the country with energy in a responsible way in the future and to shape it in a secure and affordable way for businesses and people. That's what we're doing. Mr Madlener also asked questions which I can answer. He was talking about the netting arrangement. He said that some benefit from it and others pay the bill. It is true that the netting arrangement is a favourable arrangement. You put solar panels on your roof and then you can return electricity to the electricity company at a high price. That's a favorable arrangement. We have agreed that we want to stimulate solar energy and encourage people's involvement in renewable energy, including solar energy. We have different possibilities. For very large projects we have the SDE+. For the middle category, we have the arrangement which the Chamber usually refers to as a postcode rose scheme. For the individual situations we have the netting scheme. It will exist until 2020. In 2017 I will come up with an evaluation. If it leads to changes, I will ensure a proper transition period. I intend not to wait until 2017 but to carry out that evaluation this year. I do not want to anticipate the results of this. Mr Madlener also asked about the development of thorium. He thinks there'll be a thorium plant in 10 years. I don't have that expectation. I do not know whether thorium is a real solution, because it is then necessary that costs can also be controlled. At the moment I do not have the conviction that this is possible, but it is an interesting option, which is being worked on in the world and also in the Netherlands. TU Delft is working on this, but also the NRG (Nuclear Research and Consultancy Group) in Petten is doing research on this. That's what the Cabinet supports. I will discuss the opportunities of thorium in the energy dialogue with experts. This will certainly involve the questions of how much it costs and when it is expected to lead to something concrete. Those were Mr Madlener's questions. Mrs Van Tongeren has gone into the electric car. In general, I have already addressed this in my initial reaction. She also asked me to drive an electric car. She said the Secretary of State for I and M will do the same. I very much appreciate the Secretary of State for I and M, who drives a hydrogen car for journeys in The Hague. For longer journeys she still uses a diesel car. She may switch to a plug-in hybrid, so she can bridge the distance between Twente, where she and I live, and The Hague at the moment. When it's possible to use electric cars on a larger scale, I don't know. I do think that's the future. That is why two fully electric cars are now available at Economic Affairs for missions. I hope to be able to ride in that too, preferably behind the wheel, because they seem to be able to pull up great. But we'll see about that. Mrs Van Tongeren asked about the attempts to turn the South Netherlands into a green electric car valley. In the south of our country, especially in North Brabant, things are going very well with stimulating activity around electric vehicles. The provincial government has been very active in this for years. There are also many initiatives in Eindhoven and in Helmond in particular, but also in Tilburg. Tilburg has a beautiful factory of Tesla, which will be expanded. In Born, in Limburg, VDL Nedcar is located, but VDL is also located in Eindhoven and has all kinds of suppliers. DAF in Eindhoven is working on electric vehicles for freight traffic. TU Eindhoven does that. Employment in this sector has now risen above 3.000 and will reach 10,000 formation sites in 2020, not only in Brabant, but also in Brabant. This is a very positive development, which we are constantly supporting. Mrs Van Tongeren asked about the energy saving obligation under the Environmental Management Act and, in particular, about its enforcement. We agreed in the Energy Agreement to improve the enforcement of the Environmental Management Act. An important part is the recognition lists, which I believe Mrs Van Veldhoven has started as one of the first. The first recognised list of measures is already enshrined in the Environmental Action Decision. We are confident that this will already lead to significant energy savings, but more needs to be done. On this point, we have also agreed that more capacity will be available in the coming years for the enforcement of the Environmental Management Act. Mrs Van Tongeren asked about the iodine pills, which she thought might also have to be distributed to the people around Petten and Delft because of the reactors that are there. I am not talking about that; my colleague from VWS is talking about that. She is able to have a good exchange of views with the Chamber on these matters. The fact that no iodine pills are provided around Petten and Delft has to do with the fact that it is not expected that if there was a disaster at Petten or Delft, a lot of radioactive iodine would be released there. There is only a limited amount of fuel there. That is also because of the nature of the reactor: there is no reactor vessel under pressure. So the spread risk is also less. Therefore, it has been concluded by the person responsible that it is not good to provide iodine pills in that area. With regard to PALLAS, Mrs Van Tongeren wondered whether better, small-scale alternatives were not available. She mentioned cyclotrons. Other alternatives are also being discussed. For the short term, all I know is that our reactor, which is old and occasionally still stands still, still has to operate 30% of world demand. I have already told Mr Bosman that with half of the world's demand there will be a problem in 2018, because Canada will disappear as a supplier. Cyclotron is not so far away at the moment that it is an alternative. Whether it can be an alternative will be discussed in particular in the decision on the business case for PALLAS. It will then have to be considered whether there is a business case, whether companies are willing to take the risk of a large investment, whether the alternatives are in place, whether there may be cooperation with alternatives and whether there are better alternatives than what PALLAS can offer. That's gonna have to be checked out by then. Today, because of their low capacity, cyclotrons are not yet a viable or affordable alternative to the large-scale production of isotopes. I don't know if they are. Ms Van Tongeren claimed that Tata and Shell have been granted free ETS rights, from which they would have earned money. Mrs Van Tongeren also mentioned an amount. In the period that I had to deal with this, from 2012, it was no longer the case that you could do what was possible in the period before on a certain scale. That is not the case at the moment and will not be the case in the future. I find that the steel company Tata is currently in need of our care. It produces steel in a very efficient and relatively environmentally friendly and energy efficient way. It is also working on further improvements in this area, but it has to compete in a very difficult world market and deserves the attention of the public authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u276	Then let's see if all the questions have been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u277	A minister is, of course, responsible for what he himself does as a minister during his period, but also for what happened before at his ministry. That's what I was asking about. Shell and Tata Steel would have made $400 million each according to a pretty solid calculation. I also suggested to the Minister how to achieve energy savings in such a difficult steel industry. Worldwide, steel products should work together. If you do it by country, you get a race to the bottom. Is there any response to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u278	Working together globally: this is the way the world should be. I am very much in favour of it, but there is often competition. That's what you see especially in China. They have built huge steel production capacities there, but at some point it appears that they do not need all the steel they make, which they thought they needed a large part of it on the domestic market. They don't want to shut down those factories and let people go out of work. So they bring that steel to the world market at a low price, and that is why we have the problems. If we do not accept this steel and impose levies, cheap steel from China will not go to Europe but to America or to other parts of the world. The steel-processing industries in those parts of the world will then compete with the European steel-processing industries and push them out of the market. So we are trying to see how we can do justice to the interests of those steel-processing industries and how we can do justice to the interests of the steel-producing industries. On the world market there is simply competition and in order to be able to defend European interests, we need the European Commission. Without the European Commission, we would not be able to do justice to companies like Tata in the defence of their interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u279	And what is your answer to Mrs Van Tongeren's question about the period for your term of office?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u280	I do not have any figures for the period before that. I can't give a numerical answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u281	Can there be a written response from the Ministry to the calculations made, to that research concerning those windfall profits for Shell, Tata Steel and other large Dutch companies in the ETS? I'd be totally happy about that. Another question concerns six or seven motions by GroenLinks from the period 2011 to 2015 concerning an acceleration of wind on land. The Minister can count on the warm support and encouragement of GroenLinks to achieve this. I brought those motions, but I won't piss the chairman off by reading them. Is the Minister prepared and intending to look at all these different proposals again, now that we may not be able to meet the objectives for land-based wind?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u282	Mrs Van Tongeren's first question was about amounts that would have been received in the period before 2012 by companies she mentioned in particular. I will look into what information is available and whether this information can be shared. I'll check it out. I don't know. So I will come back to it when that information is available and if it can be shared. On the second question, I say the following. I have on the bedside table next to my bed a pile of motions from GroenLinks. I watch that all the time. I shall look again at the motions referred to by Mrs Van Tongeren to see if I can take advantage of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u283	You must be a good sleeper!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u284	I come to Mr Geurts' contribution. He was positive about nuclear power. I didn't hear that without abdominal pain. He was also positive about the reactor in Petten. That's the same thing. Mr Geurts asked how the review of the energy agreement and the ibo on CO reduction will proceed in time. I expect the evaluation of the energy agreement in October. The ibo on CO reduction is ready. The cabinet response is almost ready. I hope I can get it to the Chamber by mid-April. Mr Geurts also talked about promoting the growth potential of nature. He related that to the CO problem. It is relevant to its point that the European Union has made a climate and energy package. In line with that package, climate policy will also take into account land use and forestry change after 2020. This concerns emissions arising from land use and the crop selection of farmers. The maintenance of soil fertility is the responsibility of the farmer who knows it. The farmer can do that; it's his land. An important tool of the farmer in this regard is the choice of crop. The cabinet does not pursue an active policy of incentives in this respect. The cabinet doesn't control the crop selection. CO storage in the soil in the form of organic matter takes place mainly with permanent grassland. These are grasslands which, as such, are in use for 20 years. Young forests are also an option to capture CO. Other long-term crops can also be interesting. In these crops, you first bind the COen and then you give the products a long-term destination, for example as a building material or as furniture, or in other innovative applications. Then you have achieved something in the context of by- one of them: first you bind the CO in the plants and then you bring it back into nature by burning it, as Mr Geurts said. So if you do it the other way, which I just described, you tie the CO and then hold the CO. So that has a positive effect. He's right about that. That's right. Mr Geurts also spoke about the code of conduct drawn up by the wind energy industry, the NWEA, in cooperation with nature and environmental organisations. I have already said that the evaluation has shown that the participation of local residents has increased significantly. It also shows that it is very important to involve people as early as possible in projects in their environment. I'm sure this is the right thing to do. That is why the Energy Report states that decisions on renewable energy must be taken in the future, particularly in the region. Provinces and municipalities in a given region must therefore consider together what the rural objective is, what their reasonable share is in it, how they want to implement it, how they can involve people and how they can do it responsibly as provinces and municipalities. That's the line for the future. The municipalities and the provinces very much agree and are eager to get this going. That is why five regions have already signed up to put this into practice as a pilot project in anticipation of future developments. I very much support this and am talking to the VNG to further develop it. Mr Geurts also spoke about the division of tasks for the code of conduct. I have already said that, according to the evaluation, the code of conduct for wind on land is a good code of conduct. However, I have also said that I find the ambition of parties such as the Dutch Association of Neighbors Wind turbines (NLVOW) and the Association of Eigen Huis to get involved in this, positive. We need to see how we can do justice to that ambition in future. I have already referred to the statement of the King's Commissioner in Drenthe. Mr Geurts asked for a letter on the cost of wind farms off the Dutch coast. I have already sent a lot of letters and provided a lot of information on the costs of offshore wind farms. I'm willing to keep doing that, too. Soon the Chamber will receive a letter about the various variants that are at issue. I shall confine myself to the main points. I will convert it into the cost per kWh for the different locations and, moreover, I will indicate the total subsidy costs. However, I do not have all the information, because, to some extent, it is confidential information that the ECN has received from companies, but which cannot be traced back to companies. I shall therefore look into whether I can give the insight that Mr Geurts wishes from the cost per kWh and the total cost of the subsidy. I have often provided information on this purpose, but if further information is needed, I am prepared to provide it. So I will do the same in the form of the letter that is coming soon. Mr Geurts finally spoke out against windmills just off the coast. We have talked about this a number of times. Let us look at how we are now in the procedure, I say to Mr Geurts. In addition to Borssele and IJmuiden, which were already planologically regulated, we also identified the Dutch coast and the park north of the Wadden Islands in the 2014 national structure vision, but this does not apply to the two locations off the Dutch coast in the lane between the ten- and twelve-mile zone. This will be complemented by the structural vision this spring. This will enable Mr Geurts to monitor developments in this area. I hope that Mr Geurts will be able to give his opinion on this subject after having heard the arguments of the cabinet and of me. I have already responded to the fact that Mr Bosman said that, in his view, there should be a period of time to present an opinion. I think we should. He also asked me how I want to catch up with wind on land. I have already responded to that in the beginning. I have said that I have the support of the IPO, the VNG and the Union of Water Boards. Mr Bosman further asked about the progress of the one-on-one agreement energy saving in industry. We have had talks with 20 companies to see how they can contribute to this. With one company, I will soon make the first concrete agreement on this. I'm not happy about that yet. This project, which is part of the Energy Agreement and for which the co-ordination responsibility lies with VNO-NCW, should provide sufficient concrete projects before 1 May to achieve the objective of 9 PJ of additional energy savings from the one-to-one agreement. I am convinced of the commitment of VNO-NCW in this respect, but I do need the result. If that result is not achieved or not enough, I will have to look at alternatives. I will do the same, because this is also part of the agreements resulting from the energy agreement, which I wish to comply with. Mr Bosman gave his opinion on PALLAS. I've gone into that in detail. I hope that I have answered Mr Bosman's questions and comments correctly. Mr Vos first asked me why the Netherlands is not involved in Bill Gates' Mission Innovation Initiative. This was launched at the last climate conference in Paris, on which 20 countries committed themselves. We weren't there, but we weren't consciously there. We think it is an interesting initiative. This means that, in view of the ambitions we have and the parallel ambitions we have, we would like to see how we can still join them. Secretary of State Dijksma and I will see whether it is useful and possible that the Netherlands is still seeking membership. We have no inhibition in that respect. Mr Vos spoke to me about the need for me to step up my efforts with regard to renewable energy and everything related to it. I put a lot of teeth into it, but also in order to achieve the current objectives. To put a little bit of effort into realizing even more... When I see concrete possibilities for that, I always keep my recommendations and I will be happy to look at them. Mr Vos has already mentioned a number of things in the piece that the PvdA Group has come up with and I have already responded to them. Mr Vos also asked me about electric transport and the green deal that applies to it. There is a green deal electric transport for the period 2016-2020. I've talked about that before. I hope to be able to sign it with all those concerned in mid-April. As far as I am concerned, this green deal is going to mean that in 2025 50% of all newly sold cars have an electric powertrain and a plug and that at least 30% of them, or 15% of the total, are already fully electric by 2025. The sector and I think it's possible to make an agreement on that. So by 2025, 50% of newly sold cars will have an electric powertrain and 30% of it, or 15% of the total, will be completely electric. In the year 2020, we must grow there. As an intermediate step for the year 2020, it seems realistic to me that 10% of newly sold cars have an electric powertrain and a plug. That seems feasible to me, and it will be a substantial step forward. It will mean that the Netherlands will be able to maintain the leading position in the world at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u285	I see Mr. Vos walking to the interrupting microphone. Do you have any more answers for Mr Vos?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u286	I was distracted, Mr President. I'm going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u287	Mr Vos, I propose that we put all the questions at the end so that we do everything at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u288	Mr Vos spoke about the relationship between our heat ambitions and our ambitions for coal power plants. By "ours," I mean the ambitions of the Chamber. The Court wishes to see scenarios put in place for phasing out the last five coal-fired power stations. I think it would be useful to make the most of the residual heat from these coal plants. These coal plants exist and there is a large amount of residual heat available. It would be very good to use this heat so that gas does not have to be used in greenhouses, houses, sports halls and swimming pools for heat, but that heat is used for coal power stations. That's gonna save you a lot of carbon dioxide. You may have those coal plants, but because of the link with the heat grid, you can look at the efficiency and the acceptance of those coal plants quite differently. For the heat networks we want to see realized in the Netherlands, it is important that we are not dependent on one or a few heat suppliers. It is our ambition to connect all the houses that are eligible to the heat grid instead of the gas grid. I estimate that 25% of the houses in the Netherlands are eligible for this. I do not want to depend on waste incineration, coal-fired power stations or any particular industrial process. I would like to use as many sources as possible to ensure a stable heat supply, so that we do not depend on one or a few suppliers. Mr Vos spoke about CCS. He took back history from before he was a Member of Parliament and referred to a letter of office from Minister Cramer of 29 June 2007. Ten years after that letter, there should be a CCS obligation for the coal plants to be built on the Maasvlakte, the three RWE/Essent, C.GEN and E.ON plants. In that letter, my predecessor, at the time from VROM, sought to make CCS the state of the art within ten years at European level. That's what she said. There is no obligation within any time limit. She said that the Netherlands should contribute to the fact that CCS, coupled with coal power stations, is the state of the art. I also think this should be done. It is very important to collect and store the CO from coal plants, as long as you cannot use it again in greenhouses, for example. That is what we are working on at the moment, with the result that we still have the only project in Europe that can be carried out on a large scale. So our commitment has been such that we are the last remaining CCS project in Europe. I'm doing the best I can to get that ROAD project realized. It could then be followed up after the first phase. It may be important for the assessment of the future of coal plants. At the time of the decision on the new coal plants, the owners concerned declared their willingness to invest in CCS and prepare their plants for it. They did. All three new plants are technically suitable for the application of CCS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u289	I would like to comment on CCS and its technical suitability. I went there to see: the bottom line is that there is a very large hole in the chimney that CCS can be connected to. I think that's a little skinny. I made the point in my contribution because the Dutch government said it would do it within ten years, in which the Minister wrote: "It is clear that the government's financial support (...) is temporary and will focus on the development and demonstration phase that we still have to go through. After that, CCS will have to feed itself." She also wrote: "Investors in new power stations will have to take this into account." For example, there are some warnings: "It is very doubtful whether the market conditions for fossil-based power plants are still the same as at the time of the application for the relevant environmental permits." Those are some of the lyrics I found here. When you read all that back, you think: shouldn't we just carry out those intentions back then? We have continuity of administration in the Netherlands, don't we? Shouldn't we simply implement the CCS, which was clearly the intention of the then cabinet ten years ago? What is the state of play in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u290	Why don't we explain to the public gallery once what CCS is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u291	That's the capture and storage of COFrom the chimney of such a coal plant comes all COYou put a large air bag on that chimney and you suck it off. Then you take it to the North Sea and put it under the bottom. If cars could do the same thing, you'd have a trailer behind your car. At the exhaust comes a bag, it goes in the cart and then you go to the North Sea and then you save it there. Then that problem is solved and then we can also keep driving with fossil combustion engines. That is not possible, of course, but it is possible in coal-fired power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u292	You've missed a calling as a teacher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u293	I share the importance of the capture and storage of CO at coal plants with Mr Vos. I also feel bound to say that the Minister of VROM said in 2007 that she is committed to making CCS a state of the art in the European context within ten years. I am very committed to that. That is why, after other countries have lost weight, England did that as the last country left, the Netherlands is the only country that has the willingness and is able to realise a major project. We've spent a lot of money on that. The European Union has done the same. Money is invested by Germany, Norway and France. It also contributes in kind. I therefore believe that it is feasible in this way to implement that big CCS demonstration project in the Netherlands, but that must be demonstrated this year. Once this has been achieved and we are also able to reduce costs, it may be important for the future of coal plants. This may also be involved in the scenarios developed for the phasing-out of coal-fired power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u294	I'll wait for those scenarios. I attach importance to the continuity of governance in this area, including a multiannual perspective for CCS. I would like to thank the Minister for explaining the green deal, about 50% of the cars that have an electric power train in 2025. As far as I'm concerned, that's wonderful news. Can the Minister also tell us about other types of sustainable technology? It is mainly about emissions, i.e. hydrogen and green gas. Above all, we need to look at increasing emissions requirements. We must do this in the years to come, as it were, technologically neutral. Is that also on the Minister's radar and if so, in what way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u295	I think it would be wise to give the Chamber an overview of everything that is going on in the field of energy innovation. I think it's useful to do that. I'm gonna find an opportunity to do that. This question by Mr Vos will also be included. I am available to deal with various things that play at this point: manure fermentation, tidal energy, cascading and new types of windmills. There are many initiatives currently under way. I think it would be good to give an overview of energy innovation at some point. What is the state of play and what are the prospects? I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u296	Is it a good idea to do that in the budget, or is it too late?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u297	I'll come back when I can. I will exchange that moment with the MPs in good time. If that is not to their satisfaction, I can talk to them about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u298	Perhaps you will be able to answer that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u299	The minister just said he was looking at possible targets for cars with a plug. One of the things he said was: 10% of the new cars that are going to be sold in 2020 should be cars with a plug. But in 2015, 41,000 new cars were sold with a plug. Around 400,000 cars are sold every year in the Netherlands. The objective was achieved last year. I didn't hear the Minister react too enthusiastically to shovels on top of them. Does the Minister consider it sufficient to maintain the current objective? Or does he and GroenLinks think you should go up if you reach that goal already? A roll-out of the loading pole infrastructure is crucial for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u300	I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren and if the green deal is there, I will explain how it relates to the current situation. I will also mention the ambition of 2020 and 2025. In Mrs Van Tongeren's argument, I do not simply have a counter-argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u301	I rarely hear that. Thank you. Such a beautiful ambition on electric transport naturally includes the corresponding ambition on the charging infrastructure. I assume that the Minister who is going to raise the issue as enthusiastically as his target for the share of cars with a plug in the newly purchased cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u302	As far as loading posts are concerned, we must come up with a plan in accordance with a European directive. In this we must set a target that we are working towards. That has already been discussed with the Chamber; I think Mr Groot has tabled a motion on it. We are working on that plan, which I believe will be with the Chamber within a month and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u303	An interruption by Mr Bosman. I hadn't seen him at the Interrupt Microphone yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u304	When it comes to cars, I'm happy to be discussed. I always find that interesting. Of course, it is important that we achieve objectives. The fact that this objective has already been achieved is also very good. I am in favour of a certain broadening. It should not only be about cars with a plug, but also about hydrogen cars and perhaps also about very economical cars. We need to look more broadly at mobility on the Dutch roads. In order to reduce emissions of CO and particulate matter, we should not just look at the plug car. We also note that a lot of cars with a plug go out after a year in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u305	I can't confirm the latter. It is true that there is an export of cars with a plug, as Mr Bosman calls it. But this is mainly about exports to Norway. This is because we buy together through the Netherlands. Those cars are therefore partly transferred to Norway. How it's gonna unpack is gonna turn out soon. Plug-in hybrids are released from the lease. The question is whether or not the consumer market absorbs it. I think many consumers are interested in this, because consumers often drive small pieces. If you can use electricity for this every time, it is much more attractive than in the case of business use, as there are often long distances involved. I think we should see how it works out. Have I answered Mr Bosman's questions or have some of them remained? I see him nodding and that means that I can continue with the points raised by Mr Wassenberg. Mr Wassenberg felt that the Minister should show more courage. It's the first time I've been told I don't have the guts to show. I thought I was, because I'm just standing by my policy. Decisions to be taken on renewable energy are often unpopular. The Chamber can see that for itself, because when the Chamber is asked for a ruling on something, the Chamber always says no, because the Chamber always agrees with those who do not want something. It is my role to say yes and also to do so responsibly. I am also in favour of this, and I therefore believe that I have the courage and courage to do this work. I understood from Mr Wassenberg, he said that literally he wanted to close the door for fossil energy. I don't have to think about it, because that's when our whole society thunders. We need that fossil energy very much and we will continue to need it for decades to come. I believe that we should make the transition to renewable energy as soon as possible, but in a responsible way and not by closing the door to fossil energy. Mr Wassenberg wants to place the evaluation with an independent body. I think the government is an independent body. We are not involved in anything and we do not serve any part-interest. We are always in the process of working in the public interest and weighing up partial interests. I therefore consider the government to be an independent body. If good evaluations are to be carried out, we can do so very well ourselves or we can do so. If something goes wrong, we'll have to do better next time, but that doesn't change the fact that it's our job to do it right. I would therefore like to keep that evaluation to ourselves. It's not like you have to be outside the government for an independent story. In my opinion, the opposite is true. Mr Wassenberg asked that municipalities and provinces be encouraged not to impose additional conditions for wind on land. I am not prepared to do that because I respect the municipalities and the provinces. I consider the objective of renewable energy to be extremely important, but I also respect their responsibilities for the well-being of people, their responsibilities for nature and their responsibilities for the planning and organisation of public space. This means that at some point they must also be able to weigh things against each other in order to make a responsible decision. I'd like to leave that responsibility to them. I also think they should keep their agreements, but then it is up to them to see how they can combine them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u306	I'll come back to the fossil fuels. I told the Minister to close the door on new fossil fuels. We talked about shale gas. The Minister says that this cabinet period will not be drilled for shale gas, but he refuses to make test drilling impossible. My request was to close that door for shale gas. We're still stuck with fossil fuels for a while, but make it impossible for it to only become more. And that is what will happen if we allow shale gas drilling. That is a door that we can close without too many risks. That's what my comment was about!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u307	When I talk to you about nuclear power, you say that that door can be shut without risk. When I talk to you about Groningen, you say the gas extraction can be stopped. When I talk to you about Terschelling or Woerden, you say they can be quietly shut down. Apparently, all doors can be shut without a problem, but that's not how I look at them. I think that things are different and that we have to make a responsible decision each time. We need to take those decisions further within the wider perspective of ensuring security of supply and ensuring that energy supply is affordable. I do not know whether Mr Wassenberg realizes it, but I have already withdrawn all the licences for test drilling to shale gas. They've all come to an end. I have agreed that there will be no drilling at all during this cabinet period, so no commercial mining and no test drilling. I have also said that there will be no commercial drilling in the next five years, not for test drilling and not for extraction. The only thing that can happen during that period is that on behalf of the government, the Empire, there is drilling to see what the actual situation is with regard to shale gas. If that is possible, we would also like these drillings to be in the mood for ultra-deep geothermal energy, something which we also consider to be of great importance. As far as shale gas is concerned, therefore, there are no drillings in any way during this cabinet period, and not in the first five years with the nuance I have just indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u308	Trials initiated by the government are also test drilling. As far as nuclear power is concerned, nuclear power stations are expensive. The storage of nuclear waste is also very expensive. The closure of the nuclear power plant costs money, but the nuclear power plant itself also costs money. Finally... That's a point I'm gonna let go of right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u309	You still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u310	However, it is good for Mr Wassenberg to realise that. For shale gas close the door, for coal close the door, for nuclear power stations close the door, for small fields close the door, for Groningen and for injection of production water close the door. They're all doors that need to be shut. In the meantime, we want the energy to be affordable and there is security of supply. There are considerations to be taken into consideration. For these considerations, I think I'm going to show the courage I need. Mr Smaling has already received a response on a number of points, because I have already addressed them earlier. He spoke again about geothermals and their acceleration. As I have already said, we are involved in all geothermal projects in one way or another and we are very much encouraging this. I believe in it, too. There are problems, but we always try to solve them, together with the initiators. There is a lot of enthusiasm among the initiators. At the moment, I am having an investigation into whether the instruments we now have are sufficient to cover the financial bottlenecks in geothermal projects. If that is not the case, I will consider whether, for example, a contribution could be made in the form of a fund. I'm in the process of implementing a pilot project on ultra-deep geothermals that is particularly interesting for industry. The industry needs high temperatures for its processes. If you can get it out of the deep subsurface, you can get some of the gas demand away from the industry. Ultradiepte geothermals have never been applied in the Netherlands, and we are now looking at how we can set up a pilot project. In addition, we use a Knowledge Agenda Earth heat on the knowledge development of geothermal projects. In this way, with the development of knowledge and the knowledge agenda, we try to contribute to the professionalisation of the geothermal sector. Can I say one more time that I have a great deal of appreciation for initiators who really stick out their necks and who, in addition to their normal activities, for example as gardeners, are busy making the geothermals succeed? They achieve results for their own company, but also for their surroundings, other businesses, homes, sports halls and pools; I have already mentioned them. Those are really people who stick their necks out for the good of the public. I appreciate that very much. Finally, Mr Smaling asked me to review the Biomass 2030 vision. I hope he does not blame me for not doing so, because I have just come up with the Biomass vision. We have worked hard on this. We then set out that view, and I would like to discuss it with the Chamber. I am also talking to the sector about it, but this is mainly intended to translate all the ambitions expressed in the Biomass vision into action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u311	Is there a need for a second term? I note that this is the case. It appears to me that there is no need for a suspension prior to the second deadline. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber for her second-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u312	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CO price has fallen below €5 per tonne, which does not discourage greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[noting that the Netherlands Bank warns of major shocks to the economy if it is not used in time for a CO-neutral economy and therefore advocates a higher carbon price;]] [[calls on the Government to aim for a minimum price for CO within the European Emissions Trading System (ETS) or in cooperation with neighbouring countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the climate agreement stipulates that global warming should be limited in 2100 to well below 2°C and that a temperature increase of not more than 1,5°C should be sought;]] [[Whereas the emissions trading system (ETS) needs to be reformed in order to reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[calls on the Government to take the 1.5°C target of the Climate Agreement as the starting point for the reform of the Emissions Trading System (ETS),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that by the end of 2020 all new buildings should be almost energy neutral in accordance with the European EPBD Directive and that this requirement will apply to public buildings in the Netherlands from the end of 2018;]] [[Whereas the final objective of zero-on-the-meter requires further tightening of these standards;]] [[calls on the Government to submit a proposal to the Chamber before the end of the year for the adaptation of the Building Decision in order to:]] [[from the end of 2018 all new homes are almost energy neutral;]] [[from a year to be determined with the construction industry, all new homes are zero-on-the-meter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-432]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-433]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-434]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u313	Finally, a very brief motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[The House noted that the Van Weyenberg/Van Veldhoven motion (34302, No. 99) to phase out coal plants;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that waste heat projects do not unduly prolong the life of coal power plants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-435]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u314	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for a number of commitments. That saves me a few motions. With regard to planning damage and health effects, the Minister has promised to look again at how Drenthe concerns can be addressed. He's not gonna change the scheme, but we're gonna see if people's concerns can be removed in communication with people and health questions answered. I really appreciate this. With regard to biomass, the Minister undertook to consider how the 25 PJ could be used to boost cascading and conversion in the chemical industry. I look forward very much to his answers on this point, later this year. I am also pleased that the Minister is ready to look at an experimental scheme to further encourage Gasunie to facilitate cooperation and innovation. On this point, too, I look forward to the Minister's answers. I've got two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Parties to the Energy Agreement are in the process of drawing up an intensification package to achieve the objectives of the Energy Agreement;]] [[Considering that the results of many measures have significant ranges and that not all measures will always achieve the maximum;]] [[calls on the Government, when assessing whether the intensification package is sufficient to meet the objectives of the energy agreement, to consider the average value of the bandwidth and not the maximum value,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government is in the process of drawing up scenarios for the phasing-out of coal-fired power stations and that compensation may be part of them;]] [[calls on the Government to also make transparent how the calculation of any compensation costs is achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Veldhoven and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-436]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren and Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-437]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u315	I see that in the text as it is on my desk, the words 'possible' and 'possible' have not yet been added. Since I did just pronounce them, I'd be happy to add them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u316	It's taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u317	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas electric driving and self-driving vehicles can contribute to sustainable mobility and represent market opportunities for Dutch industry;]] [[calls on the government to pay more attention to electric and self-driving vehicles in the top sectors of Energy, Hightech and Logistics,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the PALLAS reactor is to supply medical isotopes, but is now also working on innovative techniques such as cyclotrons;]] [[whereas there are no private investors yet;]] [[considers that a decision on the production of medical isotopes should also take into account international developments;]] [[calls on the government to include a clear decision-making moment in the decision-making process;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to contribute financially to PALLAS only if there are private investors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-438]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-439]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u318	We have changed "go/no go" moment in your motion to "clear decision-making moment." Do you have a great deal of objection to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u319	I don't think that's a problem. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas electric transport contributes to clean air and a better climate;]] [[Whereas the number of charging stations for electric cars is still insufficient;]] [[calls on the government to add to the green deal Public Accessible Electrical Loading Infrastructure the objective to aim for 20% parking spaces with a charging pole in public and new car parks and to strive for one public charging pole per three electric cars,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-440]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u320	I was very happy to hear that the Minister has the motions of GroenLinks on his bedside table to regularly browse them and get inspiration from them. I was also pleased with a slightly more serious commitment, namely that the Minister will look again at what proposals from GroenLinks and other parties to speed up wind on land can be involved in his policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u321	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I talked about five coal plants closing down; I said that was a lot. Just as explicitly for reporting, two are already closed and three should close. I agree with the Minister on organic dust content in soil: the cabinet should not want to steer crop selection. I hope the Minister will pass that on to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. I hope that at some point we will encourage the cultivation of crops that can store CO; I hope that the Minister will also pass that on to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. Then I'll continue the discussion with him. The Dutch WindEnergy Association has carried out an evaluation of the code of conduct for wind energy. I asked the Minister in the first place to respond to the NWEA's recommendations. He may be able to do so in writing. Finally, I would like to thank GroenLinks for the action plan for electric driving. I hope Mrs Van Tongeren will listen too, because I compliment her. I hope she pays attention to that. I will share this action plan with my group. In particular, I found the sixth point interesting: peak lanes can be used for electric cars. I'm from the province of Gelderland. There are still a lot of bottlenecks to be solved by building a peak. I hope Mrs Van Tongeren will support this particular piece of asphalt. I have no further motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u322	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers and the clear story. In the coming decades, all forms of energy generation will remain desperately needed. It is an illusion to think that we can turn things off rücksichtslos and turn them away and that we would get there with it. It is not wise to ban certain pious in advance. Let the different species strengthen each other. As long as there is no form of large-scale energy storage, we need fossil power stations and nuclear power stations. Energy generation must ultimately be reliable, affordable and clean, with the three being in a good relationship with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u323	Mr Bosman says that we need nuclear power stations, coal plants and fossil reprocessing very much in addition to the newly emerging clean energy. But does Mr Bosman know that in the Netherlands we have drawn up more than twice the assets that we ourselves need for the Netherlands? What he just said is not entirely in line with the current situation in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u324	No, but if wind goes away, it's a lot less. We're counting set-up power. That's the wind too. It's not always there. We have interconnections that go in different directions, including overseas. So it is not true that we can easily count that we have enough. TenneT says very simply: in 2019 we run the worst risk that we will not have enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u325	Again, if you pull all the wind off, there is more set-up power in the Netherlands. This does not mean that it is being turned on, but the ability is now there to provide the Netherlands twice. Is Mr Bosman aware of this or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u326	I disagree with Mrs Van Tongeren. In TenneT's report, that is significantly different. Then it's a risk. You can say very loudly that it's not a problem, but I think that's unwise. We should not let ourselves go to sleep by thinking: you know what, shut it down because there is no problem. There is and TenneT has indicated that. I think we should be very concerned about that. I do not think it is appropriate simply to decommission power stations because we have enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u327	You will cross swords on that many times, so I have the impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u328	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first-term answers and for his continued efforts to help the Netherlands and other countries move from fossil to renewable energy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Having regard to the opinion of the ……]] [[that it is possible to drive cars that do not emit pollutants;]] [[that this type of car will quickly become cheaper in price and that the range of action will increase and that this process will be faster when emission-free transport becomes the standard;]] [[that other countries (Norway, USA) also develop emission-free transport policies;]] [[points out that the Netherlands should aim for zero-emission sales of cars by 2025 and calls on the government to commit itself to this at European level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos, Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber and Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-441]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u329	In the energy agreement we have a very sharp agreement: 2035. I understand that Mr Vos wants to delete that appointment, because it will be 2025. Is this now a tightening up of the energy agreement on the basis of a political statement? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u330	This is a repeat of moves. We've already discussed this. I don't think it's contrary to the energy agreement. I believe that the energy agreement should not be a cap on the pursuit of sustainability. Nor can I imagine that it is a problem and that it is contrary to the energy agreement. In the evaluation of the Energy Agreement, we will make adjustments in more areas. I do not see that as a deviation from the energy agreement. I would also like to say that I believe that an energy agreement is not a governmental agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u331	I think that's special. They are agreements with sustainability objectives, in which we choose the future and make agreements with many parties. Here in the Chamber, with all due respect, a quickie is being made that undermines the energy agreement. Mr Vos can say in his speech that we need to look at how things are going and that it may need to be adjusted, but if you table a motion on which the Chamber will give a ruling, with a substantially different statement than in the energy agreement, you will break the energy agreement. Mr Vos can see that differently, but I see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u332	I have said many times in the Chamber that I support the energy agreement. We have had similar discussions on biomass. We agreed that we would co-incinerate a maximum of 25 PJ of biomass. If the judge then makes a ruling that by 2020 you have to emit less CO, 25% instead of 20%, that means that you may have to deal with it in a different way than you had planned up to then. The same applies to traffic. You can turn to two things if you want to do justice to the Urgenda pronunciation, namely the coal power stations and traffic. If we're just gonna keep going, it's got to be from those coal plants. It has to come from the length or width. If Mr Bosman says that he is taking the judge's decision seriously, then I say that I think that the judge's ruling is more important than the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u333	Mr Vos is confusing everything now. In principle, agreements have been made. The government is about to come forward with a proposal on the ibo. That's all gonna come up. What's happening now is a really fast one. Mr Vos has written a nice piece, but that has been leaked a bit. There's some panic in the PvdA, and now there's got to be a motion. That disappoints me, because it is indeed a tightening-up of the energy agreement. I really think it's a change. There will be an evaluation of the energy agreement shortly. If we think that something must happen, then we can all sit at the table and assess it in good consultation with all the parties in order to arrive at a good story. What is happening now is a political quickie, which I find unwise and certainly not respectful to all those who were working on the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u334	I would like to thank Mr Bosman for his compliments on the part of the Labour Party. The other statements are more general than I consider directly applicable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u335	Now you're embarrassing me, Mrs. Van Veldhoven. I would like to give you the floor, but you are one of the signatories. That makes it a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u336	Sure. That is why it is important to make it clear that the motion does not say anything about how to achieve more emission-free cars. This does not conflict with the energy agreement or with what the parties are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u337	You are actually coming to the aid of Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u338	All parties that have signed the motion, with the exception of the Animal Party and the Christian Union, support the energy agreement. GroenLinks and D66 are in favour of the energy agreement and have consistently supported it, including the Labour Party. There is now a difference of interpretation between the VVD and those other parties about the extent to which this deviates from the letter and the spirit of the energy agreement. This has been noted. Such a debate is good for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u339	Mr. Chairman. I'm about to make two motions, but first I have a question for the Minister. We talked about the heat roundabout in the first period. A coal power station may also be connected to this. The Minister said in reply to questions from colleague Jan Vos that as long as those coal power stations still exist, you must use the residual heat. However, we must be careful not to make this coal power plant indispensable in this way. Can the Minister explain how we can avoid making coal plants an indispensable part of the heat grid in this way? I ask this because a motion has been adopted calling on the Minister to phase out coal power stations. I'm afraid that motion will be compromised otherwise. Is the Minister prepared to come up with a plan of action setting out how coal plants can be removed from a heat grid again? I'm filing my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the OECD recommends that the review of the Energy Agreement be carried out in 2016 "underground, transparent and independent';]] [[having noted that the Cabinet is taking the lead in the evaluation and will consult with all interested parties on the design of the evaluation;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for stakeholders and stakeholders to be able to influence this evaluation;]] [[calls on the Government to submit the evaluation of the Energy Agreement to an independent body,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in a sustainable and future-proof energy system there is no room for nuclear energy, with future generations still carrying dangerous radioactive waste for thousands of years;]] [[noting that Borssele nuclear power station will remain open until 2033, which will significantly increase the amount of radioactive waste;]] [[noting the need to strengthen the nuclear power plant in order to be "Fukushimaproof" and that its costs will be in the hundreds of millions of euros;]] [[Whereas this money could be better invested in renewable energy sources in order to eliminate polluting energy sources in the shortest possible time;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to the closure of Borssele nuclear power station,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-442]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-443]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u340	Apologies for the word "Fukushimaproof," but I don't have a Dutch alternative to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u341	I've been talking, but I don't know anything about a-two-three. "Stend" maybe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u342	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. That's a bit much, but it should be possible for once. The first is about the need to make the energy agreement a little more social. I talked about that in my first term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the energy agreement is aimed at technical solutions, expressed in terms of megawatts, petajoules and percentages;]] [[believes that an energy agreement should be of all people, also in view of the subsidies involved;]] [[calls on the Government, when evaluating the Energy Agreement, to come up with a version 2.0 which will make it a social agreement that will ensure fair distribution of needs and burdens and greater scope for local innovation and participation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-444]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u343	The second motion concerns biomass, asking the Minister to include the Academy report in what is still to come. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Biomass 2030 report emphasises an increase in biomass demand and supply for all purposes for which it can be used;]] [[Whereas the Academy indicates that high-quality application is by far the preferred option and that large-scale use of biomass as a by-burning product and as a transport fuel does not lead to the solution of the CO problem;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt its policy in such a way as to ensure that the considerations of the Academy are taken into account,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-445]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u344	Finally, I will support the people in the Groningen and the Drenthe bog colonies until I fall down, because they are really being wronged. I have already tabled a motion, which has also been adopted, to allow environmental management, as the government has now formulated, to lead in this direction. That is why now a motion that particularly accentuates the difference between wind and sun. There are all kinds of solar plans in Drenthe. I'd like the Minister to appreciate it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the costs and benefits of generating and using renewable energy are on the move on a permanent basis;]] [[noting that wind seems to have a lower per unit cost than sun, but that the latter seems to be catching up due to mass production and expected efficiency increases;]] [[considers that choices for technology development should focus on the future and social acceptance;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a social cost-benefit analysis which will make the estimated prospects for solar and wind energy on land, now and in the future, transparent and align future investments and grants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-446]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u345	I hope you meant "until I drop" proverbial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u346	Yes. I hope that doesn't happen for a while, but you never know. So I'm gonna have to announce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u347	That brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. Let's give the Minister one minute of reflection per motion and give him time to sort things out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u348	Mr. Chairman. Let me see if there is anything else other than motions to which I should reply, because in practice the second term of the Chamber is increasingly referring to the reading of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u349	Mr Wassenberg had at least one more question, I remembered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u350	I shall start with Mr Wassenberg. His question was about the heat roundabout and the need for coal-fired power stations to become indispensable for this purpose. I shall come back to that later on in a motion. Mr Wassenberg should ask whether we are not here, apart from the list of things we say no to which I have already referred, to say no to heat grids. These three new coal plants, two of which are located on the Maasvlakte, provide large amounts of heat. In Zuid-Holland, an initiative has been launched linking 1 to 1.5 million homes to a heat grid to be built. Of course, we all believe that as many heat sources as possible should be used for this, but these two brand new large coal plants are also realistic sources of heat. I think we should be careful to work towards saying no to that too. That is what Mr Wassenberg said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u351	Then the Minister misunderstood me again. I did not say that these coal-fired power stations could not be connected to them. I asked whether, at the time the coal plants are phased out, the Court of Justice has adopted a motion for a resolution which takes account of this phase-out plan, so that it is not immediately called indispensable for the heat grids. So I did not explicitly say that they should not be linked now. I just want a plan of action for when those coal plants will be gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u352	I understand very well, but I also know a little about how politics works. Biomass is now under discussion, coupled with the desired closure of coal plants. Now we can also link heat grids to them and then they are again under discussion. I am not going to rename the list of six or seven different forms of energy I have just mentioned, but there are always new ones being added. I really object to that. I'll approach that in a different way. If you can replace gas with heat, especially if it is in the form of residual heat or geothermal heat, that's good. I think you should use as many different sources as possible for heat grids to avoid being vulnerable. However, I do not want to do anything to exclude these modern coal plants. I believe, moreover, that the Chamber is entitled to hold an unburdened discussion with the cabinet this year about coal power stations and the ideas about phasing them out. Certainly until the decision on these coal power stations is taken, I will be reluctant about the heat grids. I do not believe that in practice there will be a problem between me and the Chamber for this year. Mr Bosman spoke about the excess power, following Mrs Van Tongeren's remark that there would be twice as much power. Mr Bosman said that, given what is available in power, TenneT warns that if the development that is going on is going on, at some point we can get into trouble and become dependent on abroad. I think it is indeed as Mr Bosman says. Mr Geurts made recommendations for the evaluation of the code of conduct, the code drawn up in consultation between the wind energy industry and nature and environmental organisations. I have responded to the recommendations of the evaluation. I said that there is indeed much more involvement as a result of that code of conduct. However, the evaluation also states that it is important to involve people as much as possible at a very early stage. I told the Chamber that I also believe that this is an important point in the energy report, but that for the short term we also have something else: the 2020 targets. I've got it to live up to. Moreover, I also have the ongoing procedures to comply with. So there are different angles when you talk about this. I don't think there were any further questions left for me. Then I will go to the motions, after I have just said something about the overview of everything that is going on in the field of energy innovation, so that the Chamber can understand it. The President suggested that I do so in the budget. I am not taking the liberty of departing from that suggestion, so I am going to do so in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u353	I see that Members think that is early enough. Then everybody's happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u354	Thank you. The motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 432 asks the government to strive for a minimum price for CO within the European emissions trading system or in cooperation with other countries. I have said that it may be necessary in the longer term to take additional reinforcing measures. We have already taken measures. Additional measures may be considered. I will come up with a letter with the Secretary of State in which I will explain this further, because this is an important point, both for the Secretary of State of I and M and for me. But I have also indicated that I am not in favour of a bottom price. Due to the low CO price, we want a broader assessment of the need for strengthening the ETS and, if so, how. We're gonna respond to that. That letter will be sent to the Chamber in April. In anticipation of that letter and our analysis by making a ruling on it as a Chamber, I advise her not to do so. So the motion-Dik-Faber in part number. 432 I don't recommend. The motion-Dik-Faber/Van Tongeren in part No. 433 calls on the government to take as its starting point the one-and-a-half-degree objective of the Paris climate agreement. We have agreed in the EU that we will look into whether the policy needs to be strengthened in 2018 as a result of the outcome of the Paris Climate Summit. Until then, we focus on the implementation of the agreements that have already been made, which are far-reaching. This motion is not in line with the agreement made in Europe. That is why I have tabled the motion Dik-Faber/Van Tongeren in part No. 433 detachment. The motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 434 asks the government to submit a proposal to the Chamber for the adaptation of the Building Decision before the end of the year. This will have to mean that all new homes will have to be almost energy neutral by the end of 2018. We have already stated in the Building Decision that this should be the case from 2020 and we will now have a motion which states: 2018. I would like to stick to 2020, as we laid down in the Building Decision. That is very ambitious. The motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 434 I advise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u355	I see that Mrs Dik-Faber has an explanatory question. In general, we're not gonna have a big discussion, are we? It is, I suppose, an explanatory question to the Minister's response to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u356	There are two requests. The first is: from 2018 all new homes are almost energy neutral. Well, that fits in with the government buildings. We think it would be a good idea to draw this together. The second request is to consult with the construction industry and to determine from what year all new buildings are still missing from the motion; it must be new buildings "zero on the meter'. It is very important that we agree on this. If we do not do that and from year X we build houses that are not 'zero on the meter', then in 10, 20, 30 years we still have to move those homes to 'zero on the meter'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u357	I can't take "zero on the meter" as standard right now. It's just too expensive. I will save Mrs Dik-Faber the amounts that are currently playing in Groningen or the amounts that you need to invest to turn existing homes into zero-on-the-meter homes. It is too soon for me to say that this has to be determined for new homes. We are already going very far with the provision in the Building Decision that all new buildings should be almost energy neutral by 2020. One step further, both with that date of 2018 and with the expansion of zero-on-the-meter houses, I go too far. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u358	You will continue with the motion in part No. 435.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u359	The motion in part No. 435 by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Tongeren are concerned with the residual heat projects and the lifetime of coal power plants. I have already said a lot about this. I would rather not have any more statements from the Chamber, which make it even more difficult to ensure that we have a responsible energy supply that is sustainable, affordable and secure in the future. I have already said what the Chamber has said that should not be. What is being asked in this motion is going to make the heat projects more difficult. I have indicated that my intention for the current year is not to hinder the discussion on the phasing-out of coal-fired power stations. I have dealt with this with biomass, and of course I will continue to do so for the residual heat. It seems to me that a ruling in the Chamber to record this now would make the matter unnecessarily more difficult. That's why I advise the Chamber not to make that statement. It concerns the motion in part No. 435. In the motion in part No. 436 by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Van Tongeren, the government is invited to "assess whether the intensification package is sufficient to achieve the objectives of the energy agreement, the average value of the bandwidth and not the maximum value'. We have all projects, initiatives and methodologies passed on to the ECN. The ECN may assess all this independently, but then we, the parties that have concluded the energy agreement, have the freedom to deal with these calculations. We can take the middle scenario; we can also take the more optimistic scenario, because we think it can be realized. I don't think we should deny that freedom. I therefore advise against this motion by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u360	Of course, the Minister has all the freedom. That is why it is important to make an agreement with each other. When we see what we have to do after 2020, isn't it very nice if it's not a bit bad? It doesn't make much sense to count your empire with a maximum yield, which you're sure you won't get at all those points. Wouldn't we avoid a disappointment if we had a more conservative assessment of the sum total of what these projects could yield?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u361	Mrs Van Veldhoven may take that view. Parties that have concluded the energy agreement with us could also take this view. However, we have said together: we let the ECN pass this on and then, on the basis of that data from the ECN, we make our own assessment, on the basis of our own ambitions and expectations. I would like to leave that space to the parties to the energy agreement. We've all agreed to this. I'd like to keep it that way. I would not like to be told that, as Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Van Tongeren intend with this motion. In the motion in part No. 437 by Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Smaling, the government is asked to make transparent how the calculation of possible compensation costs for phase-out of coal plants is achieved. We are developing scenarios for the phasing out of coal power plants. You can do that in the short, long and medium term. You can put all kinds of things in the picture. That is being worked on now, but it can also be put to the vote. It's huge sums of money. The three newest coal plants alone are worth EUR 6 billion. It is not difficult to predict that court cases can be dealt with with with all kinds of angles, if not conducted. In those lawsuits, I have to monitor the state's position, too. It is not wise to put everything on the table in advance in the course of any legal proceedings. This motion is not in the interests of the State and so I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u362	I would never ask the Minister to do anything that is not in the interests of the State. The motion also does not necessarily speak of "confidential" or "non-confidential." But the Chamber must always be able to control the government, especially when it comes to large sums. That is why the motion leaves in the middle the way that might happen. The interest of the State would not want to harm the Chamber either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u363	Then the motion is superfluous, because I will, of course, deal with the costs in the scenarios. That is an important part of the scenarios. Transparency is that you indicate what the amounts are and how you got them. I cannot pronounce that in accordance with this motion. However, I can say that I will, of course, give that relevant information to the Chamber, but only in so far as it does not affect the position of the State. That motion doesn't add anything to that, which is why I dissuaded her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u364	I am still waiting for information on the cost structure on the part of the companies in the first coal deal that this minister concluded with those companies. If the Minister says that this does not add anything, I wonder when we will be able to look at this cost-building. After all, we have gained insight into the costs for the Empire and how we pay it, but not how that sum came about. In order to assess whether a good deal has been made, the Chamber must be able to see that information. If this is to be kept confidential, given the situation that the Minister is setting out, I could understand it, but I would like to make it clear that it does not add anything to what we have now been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u365	I have already responded to this motion. On the other point: one year before the energy agreement was concluded, a coal tax had been introduced. The energy agreement should include five out of ten existing coal plants. That is why it was said at the time: we are not sticking to this coal tax; we are letting it go. Everything that could be published on the basis of the Energy Agreement has been published on the basis of the calculations. I do not know whether it is enough for Mrs Van Veldhoven, but it is an agreement made in the energy agreement to which I too feel bound. I have just given my argument on this motion in particular. In the motion in part No. 438 by Mrs Van Tongeren is asked to pay more attention to electric and self-driving vehicles in the top sectors of energy, high-tech and logistics. With all due respect to Mrs Van Tongeren, we really do not need to be encouraged on this point. I am very motivated to hold our top position in the field of electric vehicles. My colleague from I and M is very motivated with regard to those self-driving vehicles. The only country in the world where large-scale tests can be done with self-driving vehicles is the Netherlands. That's not California, and it's not the other states that have been mentioned. The Netherlands is very far away from that at the moment. We are therefore very motivated to do so. We're in the middle of a green deal right now at this point. As far as the loading posts are concerned, I said that I would come up with a plan with further information. It would be very good to wait for that to happen, and only then, as a Chamber, can we give a ruling on it. If I have to make a ruling on the motion now, I'll say, "I'll betray her." If Mrs Van Tongeren holds the motion, we can later see what remains to be discussed. In the motion by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Dik-Faber to item No. 439 The government is asked to continue to contribute financially to the development of PALLAS only when there are private investors. In the second half of 2017, we will decide on PALLAS. The chairman, and with him now also the spokesmen, calls this "a clear decision-making moment." It will then be examined whether there is sufficient interest from private investors, who want to run the project on their own account. If there is sufficient interest, then we could continue. If there isn't, we could stop. It's already been recorded. It's already been agreed. For that reason, the motion in part No. 439 unnecessary. That's why I'm dissuading her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u366	It is obvious that this motion is not recommended, because the Minister has a different view on it. It says, "Don't put any more money in it until it's clear that there are private investors." The province of Noord-Holland wasn't really into the last 14 million. That is actually the question in this motion. There is no demand for a clear decision-making moment. The Minister has already done that. However, the question in this motion is that until we know that there are private investors and that the project can continue, we should not put in any more tax money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u367	We're not gonna do that. We've done the first phase, as agreed with North Holland. We have already agreed on the second phase with North Holland. Those two tranches of the loan were therefore made available. The next tranche will only be dealt with in the second half of 2017. Then we will see if there is sufficient interest from private investors. This motion, in part No. 439, therefore, is really unnecessary. In the motion in part No. 440 asks Mrs Van Tongeren to add to the green deal Public Accessible Electric Loading Infrastructure the objective to aim for 20% parking spaces with charging pole in public and new car parks and to strive for one public charging pole per three electric cars. I do not want to commit to that in advance. I have already said that we are working on a vision of the loading infrastructure. It'll be available in the fall. That's why we got the green deal. It seems logical to me that the Chamber should now wait and see what we can come up with on the basis of the development of vision and on the basis of agreements that we can make with the field. After that, the Chamber can always consider whether it is sufficient or not and have a view on it. However, I do not think it would be wise to set qualitative objectives for this in advance, while I am still working on the development of vision and the green deal has yet to be completed. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 440. In the motion in part No. 441 by Mr Vos c.s. is called upon to state that the Netherlands should strive for the emission-free sale of cars by 2025. I understand that Mr Vos means that only zero-emission cars can be sold by 2025. Emissions-free cars are cars that are all-electric. I have indicated that it is feasible to allow 15% of all newly sold cars to be all-electric by 2025. Mr Vos says: you should actually let that be 100% by 2025. That doesn't seem to fit in with reality. I do not see how this could be achieved. I can't help but dissuade this motion. As number two in the world in terms of electric cars, we've come a long way. We also have great ambitions to go further. That's what we want to record. We also want to agree on green deals. However, it seems to me that the Chamber cannot say on 23 March 2016 that by 2025 all cars sold should be emission-free. At least I advise the Chamber not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u368	The Minister's position is clear and legitimate, but I would like to hear an explanation of his statement that it could not be a reality. Right now, those cars were just passing through our roads. If we can go to the moon in ten years' time, we can also make something that's been kissing our way around these days, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u369	2025 is nine years from now. If you count all electric cars, there's 90,000 running right now. For that you have to count all cars, so also the plug-in hybrids. The emission-free cars are just a small part of that. We are now trying to do all that. We have set our ambition in the energy agreement. It says that in the year 2035 all new cars should be able to drive emission-free. If you know the current situation and the ambition for 2035, I don't see how you could say in a responsible way that in nine years' time all newly sold cars in the Netherlands should be emission-free.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u370	I think it is legitimate for the Minister to take a different view and for the cabinet to have a different ambition. I do not understand, however, that he says that he does not understand this. If I go to the Renault or the Nissan garage right now, I can see that there are two types of cars for sale there. These are, on the one hand, electric cars or green gas cars, i.e. emission-free cars, and, on the other hand, cars that run on a traditional combustion engine. Those cars just drive out of the garage and you can drive them over the road. I am not saying that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, next year or in five years' time, but I say that we must ensure that in ten years' time there are only cars for sale that are already on the road, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u371	This is a bit of a repeat of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u372	...that we have those cars...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u373	Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u374	Yeah, but I just don't understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u375	Mr. Fox, I'm talking to you. This is a repeat of the discussion. We are here to hear the Minister's assessment of your motion. You can then find something about that, but you should not start making the same argument again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u376	I didn't make a lot of interruptions today. I'm sorry I'm going over something now. I would like to make this point. If we can go to the moon in ten years' time, I think that in ten years' time we will be able to have the electric car running everywhere. I don't understand why you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u377	Mr Vos talks about emission-free cars. Those are cars that are all-electric or run on hydrogen via an electrical system. I really do not see how it can be realised that by 2025 we will only have those types of cars on the market and therefore only have zero-emission car sales. This is very different from the current situation and from the situation laid down in the energy agreement. The energy agreement really involved all parties. Not only the consumers, the municipalities, the trade union movement and the employers were involved, but everyone was involved. If the Chamber then says that this should be done by 2025, while everyone agreed on 2035, it will intervene very drastically in an important part of our economy and of the administration in the Netherlands. After all, everything that has to do with cars is important for public administration. Such a statement is really outside of reality. I can't help but dissuade this motion. In the energy agreement, we agreed with all parties on our ambitions in the important area of electric cars. You shouldn't say a year later: we've agreed on 2035, but we're still making 2025 of it. I think that the motion in part No. 441 is outside reality. Now I come to the motion on part No. 442 in which Mr Wassenberg asked the government to place the evaluation of the energy agreement with an independent body. I've already told him how I feel about independence. I think the government is independent. In this case, we will instruct an external agency to carry out the evaluation. We will be the advisory committee there ourselves and we will ensure that there is a result which can also meet the high demands of Mr Wassenberg's independence. The government has to prove its own independence every time, including to Mr Wassenberg. That is what we are trying to do with this evaluation. I'm not sure what to do with this. If Mr Wassenberg believes that he also respects the independence of the government and if he sees an external agency in this case as an independent body, then I have no objection to that motion and leave it to the Chamber. On the motion in part No. I have already discussed in detail the 443 by Mr Wassenberg, in which the government is asked to use the closure of the Borssele nuclear power station. I'm not going to do that. I do intend to talk to the owner and the shareholders about all aspects of that nuclear power plant. My line at the moment is not that I think I should deviate from the agreement made to run that nuclear power station until 2033, but we will see exactly what emerges from that consultation. This motion by Mr Wassenberg I advise against. In Mr Smaling's motion to item No. 444 when evaluating the energy agreement, the government is asked to come up with a version 2.0 which makes it a social agreement. I find it hard to believe that the Chamber would make such a statement. We have also concluded this energy agreement with the trade union movement. We have now established that 85 000 jobs will be created by the energy agreement in 2021 on balance. That's very social. I also think it's very social if you move from fossil to sustainable. I also think it is very social if you involve everyone involved: 47 parties who have all agreed to it. I therefore advise the Chamber not to vote in favour of making the energy agreement a social agreement, and I therefore advise against this motion. In Mr Smaling's motion to item No. 445 the government is asked to adjust the policy in such a way that the considerations of the Academy are taken into account. I have already discussed the view of the Academy on 23 January 2015. The report "Biomass 2030, strategic vision for the use of biomass towards 2030" sets out how the government intends to optimise the use of biomass. The government is committed to ensuring the sustainability of the biomass used through ambitious sustainability criteria and monitoring, as I said. The same applies to biomass in coal-fired power stations, but this also applies to biofuels. So we've taken note of that involved, and we've done justice to it in our final consideration and decision-making. That is why I advise the Chamber to change the policy on the basis of that view of the Academy, to which we responded more than a year ago, and so I also advise against the motion in part No. 445. Then I come to the last motion, which is part No. 446 by Mr Smaling, in which he asked for a social cost-benefit analysis to be carried out which would make the estimated prospects for solar and wind energy generation on land, now and in the future, understandable and appropriate for future investments and grants. I don't want to do that for two reasons. First of all, Mr Smaling is always referring to Drenthe. I must contradict the suggestion that a solar park would be an alternative to the Windmill Park Drenthe Monden Oostermoer. This is not the case and the entire SDE+ system is designed to ensure that the different forms of renewable energy generation compete with each other and that the cheapest receive the subsidy. That seems to me to be necessary in order to guarantee affordability. That is why I also advise against this motion in part No. 446.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u378	This brings us to the end of the second-term response. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given and for the fact that he wanted to be with us. The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
