ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Speaking time shall be four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS considers the report of the Central Planning Bureau on long-term unemployment published in June last year to be one-sided. Nearly half of the long-term unemployed are over 50 years of age. The opportunities for older people to come from the WW or assistance to work are limited. More than 100,000 over 50s are out of work for a year or more. The CPB report does not reflect the fact that in reality there is a very complex social problem, which Rabo economists rightly mention as one of the greatest societal challenges of the present. Behind the cold and persistent figures lies a world of personal suffering and disappointment. We are talking about people who sometimes feel literally banished by society, people who feel that they are no longer allowed to participate, while they are dying to, people who want to apply dozens of times, sometimes more than a hundred times, also for less pay, but who want to hear a categorical no. We need to think about what that does to people. One of the worst things that can happen to a human being in life is feeling completely unwanted and unnecessary. That eventually destroys people psychologically and physically. For those people, we have to do it. The report continues and ignores the need for a balance between income and livelihood security on the one hand and labour cost reduction on the other. The fact that poverty is the highest among the 50 to 65-year-olds clearly shows that further interventions in social security, as requested by the CPB, are quite unwise. Long-term old-age unemployment is a persistent social problem that requires a coordinated solution. 50PLUS therefore finds it astonishing that, after years of in vain pulling and pushing and 141 days after the adoption of Mrs Vermeij and I's motion, there is not yet an elder ambassador. I hope it's gonna be there soon. The Minister himself said that what works is known. Then what are we waiting for? 50PLUS knows that the Minister has been discussing an action agenda with social partners for a long time. Hurry up on that. Maybe it's time to think about senior jobs. Job opportunities for older workers and labour cost reduction for employers should be helped by reducing the age limit for the Temporary Act compensation scheme for wage costs in the event of illness of older and former long-term unemployed, the no-risk policy, from 62 years now to 55 years. This 2009 law is intended to address the poor labour market position of older people, specifically 55- to 65-year-olds. The law automatically inspires because it applies to people born before 8 July 1954. Against the expectations set out in detail in the explanatory memorandum to the law, there is no significant improvement in the labour market for older people, let alone in the labour shortages expected in 2009. 50PLUS asks the Minister to set the age at the 55 years originally intended and rather at 50 years. This is one of the instruments that we know will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u3	Mr Krol was right to ask about the ambassador and mentioned short senior jobs. As far as D66 is concerned, the Ambassador could play a role by discussing with employers, but certainly also with employees' representatives, what can be done with senior jobs, even in the form of demotion, no matter how difficult I find that word. Perhaps we can break the taboo and see if there are opportunities to win a win-win for the worker who wants to work in another way, and for the employer. Have I understood correctly to Mr Krol that this ambassador can play a role by looking at what we can do with this taboo?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u4	D66 knows that I am against all forms of taboo, including this taboo. We must bear in mind that people with whom something has been agreed must be able to count on it. You don't need to get those acquired rights. But certainly at this time it would be good to see if we can come up with something specifically for this group, especially for those who are longer at home. That's why I mentioned those senior jobs. The Ambassador for Older People's Employment can play a fantastic role in this. In addition, even a word that is quite rightly difficult in my constituency, emotion, must not be ignored.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u5	I think that is a very open attitude and I welcome the answer. It is true for people who are looking for a job, but certainly also for people who are in the harvest years of their career, to use a more positive term than emotion. After all, they can continue to work with great pleasure in a way that they and their employer like. I am very pleased with this reply from Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u6	I am thinking in particular of people who are at home right now. In addition, there is a very large group of people who want to work for a lower salary, if they have had a benefit for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u7	Mr. Chairman. Mr Krol requested this debate last June because of the high unemployment among 49-plussers. As far as I'm concerned, they could be 45-plussers. The group is quite extensive. It is the group that enters the second part of its working life. Maybe that's how we should define it. Those people are almost out of business. Mr Krol himself said that this has great consequences at many kitchen tables. We have therefore supported the request for the debate. Those aged between 55 and 65 are at great risk of long-term poverty. Single parent families often have to do it with low income. 55-plussers get to work harder than young people when they have lost their jobs. There are also more people in this age group who are disabled, according to the statistics of the CBS. As soon as people retire, that risk drops slightly. The underlying causes are actually more important to us than talking about target groups. The PVV is not a target group, no matter how much older people's unemployment is at her heart. Maybe the subject can even get some extra attention. I believe that we have supported Mr Krol's and Mrs Vermeij's last motion. Let me take a look at Mr Krol to see if I remember correctly. Not the first time, but the second time. That's when we turned to ask for extra attention. It's something, I see Mrs Vermeij laughing even a bit surprised. We believe, however, that any unemployed person is worth the same. Every unemployed person deserves equal attention. That is why we need to talk about the underlying causes. We have talked about it many times, so I can be quite brief, but the welfare state that we have is not able to keep up with open borders. Minister Dijsselbloem is not here, so he cannot defend himself, but I would like to quote him. He said around Christmas in a clear moment that those two phenomena don't go together. That is why I would like to hear a statement from his colleague, Mr Asscher, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I would like to hear whether he still agrees with what his colleague in Finance said at the time. The cabinet has taken many measures that have made it more difficult for the elderly. More important, however, is the underlying cause: the social welfare state and open borders do not go together. We choose to close the borders for mass immigration and asylum influx, but by maintaining the welfare state and the open borders together, we are in the midst of a social collapse. I've called it that before. The towering loads cannot be sustained. We can't feed everyone in the world. It just doesn't go together. The borders are still wide open. There are billions going to the asylum industry. The increase in the AOW pensionable age means that people remain unemployed longer before they are retired. For many people there is a real poverty trap. That leads to uncertainty. The elderly appear to be the child of the account under this cabinet. Yesterday we talked about reducing pensions. We have nothing to do with a short-sighted cabinet that is cramped with the ECB's interest rate policy, which makes it uncertain, but does not look at its own political actions. Again, it is about the underlying causes. Closed borders for asylum entry, no mass immigration, no more labour migration from the EU. That kind of thing we have to stop, then there will be light at the end of the tunnel for every unemployed person. That's worth a lot to us. All age groups are better off with it. I conclude with a very brief sentence that summarises my input: stop the social collapse, close the borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u8	Mr. Chairman. There are two major problems in this country. One is growing inequality and the other is high unemployment. The Minister is working very hard to combat unemployment. We have senior ambassadors, youth ambassadors and action plans. The Minister spends money on the Action Plan 55-plus works, training vouchers, network training and placement fees. You can't think of it that crazy or he's trying; the minister really wants it. But what does it do with unemployment? There are far more job seekers than the Minister's unemployment figures show us. In addition to the 588,000 unemployed who were known by the end of 2015, half a million people, who are not working and are partly discouraged, also want a job. Almost half of those people are 55 years of age or older. In addition, more than 1 million people who already work want to work more. Does the Minister recognise that with the more than 2 million people looking for work or for more work, unemployment is much greater than the Minister wants us to believe? Many older jobseekers are immediately entering the assistance. By the way, now that I have just passed the 40, I find it a bit of a strange phenomenon that at 45 or 50 you are already an older job seeker and problematic. The labour market is so sick today, but good: improving. The only person who does find a job will find a short-term job. The broadcasting sector is getting richer, but the job seeker has not been helped. Will the Minister at least demand an annual contract for employees in return for the subsidy they receive? Will the Minister also stop the senseless torment of older job seekers? It doesn't make sense to have to apply for your own rejection every time, does it? Applying for a job? Yeah, but only if it's proven to be useful. It is too crazy for words that with nearly 2 million job seekers, the Rutte/Asscher cabinet is accelerating the labour market for even more elderly people. If the Minister wants to combat unemployment, he will reverse the accelerated increase in the AOW age, because then you will really free up places for older job seekers. If the Minister continues to do what he is doing, he will do it with good intentions, but without measures that are really going to get him to do it. He should ensure that more jobs are created instead of more people who have to compete with each other. If he does not, he will go into the books as a neoliberal Minister for Social Affairs who did not fight unemployment but waged the attack on the jobseekers. Turn the tide, I'd like to call him. Ensure more purchasing power and real jobs by investing in the hands of the bed, by converting taxation on housing corporations into an investment obligation, by focusing on public jobs for the long-term unemployed in the assistance, by stopping work without pay and by making flex more expensive than fixed. Given the number of jobseekers, the existing work needs to be distributed more fairly. We have less than a year to go until the elections and... Mr President, I can see you sighing, but time is really running out for this Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u9	I'm not sighing at all; I hear you very interested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u10	Okay, then it's just because you're working really hard. It is indeed important enough to go back less than a year to the elections. I would therefore like to say to the Minister: do it now, turn the tide, turn the wheel and do something about unemployment! If he does, he'll help the older job seeker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u11	Mr. Chairman. Just before the summer, the Central Planning Bureau was the alarm clock about long-term unemployment, because much more than in other countries it is mainly the elderly in the Netherlands who are long-term unemployed. On average, a quarter of the long-term unemployed are over 50 years old in the European Union, but in the Netherlands it is over 40%. This is not only because of the crisis, it is a structural problem. It is also one of the reasons why this particular group of people is more or less between 55 and 65 years of age, as it turned out recently, more often living in poverty. The last time we heard from the Minister about the state of play in tackling long-term unemployment was 30 November last year. Then the Minister went to discuss concrete actions with the social partners. We are four months away and, of course, I am very curious as to what concrete actions are now in the pipeline. I am also looking at the implementation of the motion I tabled together with Mr Krol. In this discussion, we asked the Minister to consider collective agreements and their impact on the opportunities of older people in the labour market. Unfortunately, a quarter of employers are concerned about the relationship between the productivity of older people and their costs. This is not because they believe that older people do not earn a slightly higher wage because of their experience, but because, for example, older people's days or the fact that in the Netherlands the gap in pay between someone aged 30 and someone aged 60 is greater than anywhere else in the Western world, restricts the chances of older people on the labour market. I am very curious as to what the discussions have resulted in. I am pleased that the Minister promised two weeks ago that he would like to launch another analysis of that pay gap. I am also curious as to how far the social partners are going to look again at wage formation on the basis of their responsibility. I assume that in such a conversation people will also look closely at the construction of this transition fee. The way in which it has been developed, in relation to age, can result in people becoming less mobile, even though we consider mobility important for their employability. In the letter of 30 November 2015 previous speakers said it was also announced the arrival of a figurehead, following the vote adopted by Mr Krol and Mrs Vermeij. Of course, I'm very curious when it comes. The scout seasonal labor was fortunately found very quickly. Finding this figurehead seems to take a little more time. Is the Minister going to surprise us later? Does the Minister intend to discuss with that figurehead. or with the ambassador or whatever you want to call him............................................................................................................................................................................................ I think it's a terrible word, because it sounds like the opposite of promotion. Who's for that now? But I also speak to a lot of people who say: I've been pulling the cart for years and now, in the harvest years of my career, I'd like to give it another push, but I don't have to pull it myself anymore. Many wonder what ways are to take a step back. How do I keep my job in a way that I like and which my employer likes, during the last years of my career, the years of my career? Is the Minister prepared to ask the figurehead to play a role in this vis-à-vis the employers, but certainly also vis-à-vis the workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u12	D66 suggests, as we are used to from D66, that wage costs are the problem. However, when we look at the state of business and the state of business in the Netherlands, we see that profits are growing and that the share going to the labour factor is falling. That's where there's pay space, as the Dutch Bank says. Then I find the problem that D66 once again wants to lay the bill on the workers. My question is: what do you actually ask employers, Mr Van Weyenberg, except that you want to make people even cheaper and that you want to give them more subsidies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u13	I think we have asked employers for all kinds of things. For example, Mrs Karabulut and I once made plans together to increase, for example, the number of people with disabilities to be employed. I am glad to be able to explain: the wage costs sec are not at all what I am talking about here. I have drawn attention to the fact that the difference between what someone earns at 30 and at 60 in the Netherlands appears to be much higher than in the Scandinavian countries, for example. At the same time, long-term unemployment among older people in the Netherlands is also much higher. I have already asked the Minister to investigate this now. I am concerned that an employer should not consider what you and I would like him to do if he could employ three young people for the money he can employ two older people. I regret that you are immediately back in the taboo atmosphere. Let us now see what we can do about this! That is in the interests of the older job seeker, an interest that you and I stand for, I say to Mrs Karabulut, through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u14	No taboos, but D66 is once again attacking workers instead of doing something about that disease on the labour market. Because yes, it's true: they can get them cheaper. They can get them cheaper through labour migration. They can get them cheaper by age. This also has to do with the fluctuating flexibility and uncertainty. Let us take a bit of a sound approach to this and raise these prices so that it can be more balanced. I'd like to make a suggestion. If Mr Van Weyenberg wants to do something about wages, let him start with the top salaries at the top of the business world. That's about millions. They're out of proportion to the basics anymore. If we start there, there will be even more room to recruit older workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u15	There really is a false contradiction created by pretending now that the things I say would not be good for job seekers, who are now on the side of the road. At the heart of the division of the labour market is that people who still have a job in this country have ample protection, but that the gap is so great that people with a temporary contract are now almost two million people and older people who lose their jobs are not getting involved for all kinds of reasons, whether it is a collective agreement or legislation. I think it's a challenge to do something about that division. I would like to work with Mrs Karabulut in this direction to narrow the gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u16	I have good news for Mr Van Weyenberg. In the Netherlands, demotion is not taboo. A study has recently appeared in MeJudice. It says we're the frontrunner in discussing emotion. The big problem with emotion is that employers do not want to engage in the conversation. It is not so much the people who are on the sidelines, because they want to work. That is also my experience from the conversations I have with people who are on the sidelines. I haven't had a single conversation that showed that people aren't willing to do that for less. What are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u17	Mrs Vermeij is absolutely right. The main route I was referring to was people who have a job and the question of how we make sure that people, as we continue to work longer, can do it in a way that suits them. You can call that a slide after retirement. That's what you call emotion. It's called harvest years. I note that there may still be obstacles. What does that mean, for example, for retirement? I'm still hearing that. Indeed, I still hear that the conversation in companies is not always held, that employers are not always open to it. That is why I asked whether the figurehead could not play a role in this, not only to employees but certainly to employers. Knowing that retirement age is rising, it is a shared interest that we can keep people working and employable in a good way and in a way that suits their own preferences. I agree with all the comments made by Mrs Vermeij. At the same time, we can win a world there. My question to this figurehead is: get on with it. What are the obstacles to employers and to the rules? That seems to me to be a very good task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u18	Thank you for that. Moreover, this study, which I can hand over to Mr Van Weyenberg if necessary, shows that employees often want to have this conversation because employees like to stay at work, but in many cases it does not happen from the employers' side. But the willingness is there for sure. This willingness is very strong for people with high levels of education and income.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u19	That's exactly why I'm not here arguing for anything from a law or anything but asking the figurehead to do something with it. I note, however, that the word 'demotion' does not always evoke positive feelings. Mr Krol rightly said that. I think it's a bad word, too. The question is how we can grasp the opportunities that demotion offers, not by using it as a disguised austerity measure for companies, as we have seen in the past, because then you have no support. It should be used to ensure that people can continue working in a manner appropriate to them. Finally, I would like to ask about the extension of the duration of the WW. Social partners want to make agreements on this in collective agreements, although it costs tens of thousands of jobs and, as far as I am concerned, does not increase the chances of finding a job. The UWV will now participate in a test of social partners. However, in response to questions from my group, the Minister could not in any way indicate what such a regulation would look like. Can he guarantee that the UWV will not take irreversible steps or make commitments to social partners before it is clear what the conditions and consequences of that extension of the WW are and that we will be informed of this first as a Chamber? Will the Minister also ensure that if agreements were to be made, my group would not be a fan of that, but that is not a secret thing that can be reversed and that there is not, for example, a private-law agreement, which means that this house will not be able to move forward for the next x year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u20	Mr. Chairman. The persistently high level of unemployment is a subject that we have discussed regularly with this Minister in recent months. We did so in debates on job plans, the problems with the Work and Security Act and the relationship between economic growth and, at the same time, the high level of unemployment, specifically the problem of long-term unemployment among older people. This debate was requested by Mr Krol about nine or ten months ago on the basis of a CPB report, which is about long-term unemployment among older people. Since then, of course, the necessary has happened. The action plan has already been mentioned here. In addition, there is an ESC opinion on the proposal on payment of wages in the event of illness and the position ofzzp'ers that the CDA has done in the budgetary treatment. There is also the motion by Mr Krol and Mr Vermeij on the appointment of an ambassador for older people's unemployment. Unlike the PVV, the CDA Group also supported Mr Krol's first motions on this point. I can't wait to see where that ambassador is. Mr Krol just mentioned the number of days on the day. That was 145, I hear. That's pretty long. I think it's high time this ambassador got off to a real start. Following on from Mr Krol and Mr Van Weyenberg just now in an interruption debate with Mrs Vermeij, I would also like that ambassador to look at what Mr Krol calls senior jobs and make it possible to discuss emotion. It is precisely this research that Mr Vermeij cites that shows why it is necessary for the ambassador to get on with it. More and more employees are willing to talk about it, but there are not enough employers ready to fill it out yet. That's what the investigation shows. Then I say to colleagues Krol and Van Weyenberg: it is a clean task for the ambassador to succeed. A second issue concerns the no-risk policy. It's been mentioned here as well. This policy was set up in 2009, precisely in order to eliminate the problems with the payment of wages and the risk of incapacity for work of older workers. It was people from 55 years of age, but it is linked to a date of birth, which means that you now have to be almost 62 to qualify for it. However, the problems of long-term unemployment of older people have not been solved and this is a step in the way. Would it not therefore be reasonable to bring that age back to 55 years, because next year it will be 63 and then 64? The medicine is necessary, but will not be used at all. Re-integration is also an issue highlighted in the CPB report. I would like to ask the Minister about last week's report on the reintegration budget in municipalities and what they can do with it. 47 municipalities will no longer receive a budget for reintegration at all, as a result of problems with the new distribution of the assistance budget. There seems to be intense discussion within the VNG, with a number of municipalities saying: if you get less budget, it does not matter whether it goes from two tonnes to one tonne or from one tonne to nothing. I think it is a rather special argument, because it seems to me that it is very worrying if municipalities do not have a budget for this at all. Can the Minister state the state of play in this discussion and what role he sees for himself and the department in this discussion? I am also asking this question on behalf of Mr Schouten of the Christian Union, who cannot be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u21	Mr. Chairman. This subject is of great concern to all of us. We are talking about people who are not old, who are unemployed and who are then really hard to get back to work. I read in Het Financieele Dagblad that in the financial sector it is already about people from 40-plus. So it's getting crazier when it comes to age categories. That is why it is a good thing that the Central Planning Bureau looked at this more than a year and a half ago. Moreover, we were not very pleased with all the measures involved, even though there were very wise things in the CPB note, because many measures were based on limiting benefits to people without jobs, in order to ensure that they would look for a job more quickly. In my view, something else is needed and something else is happening in our labour market. That also has to do with images. That is why we have tabled a motion, together with Mr Krol, who had already taken the initiative to do so, in which we called for a look at all the prejudices, a list of all the facts and talks with employers about what is actually hindering them in their policy of hiring new staff. That way we can find out what the differences are. Is it the labor costs? Or is it indeed the payment of wages in case of illness, which is looked at by the ESC? Is it about the degree of flexibility or the degree of work that people have or do not have or radiate? Is there therefore a need to address the training budgets? We have educational vouchers, but we have also seen that they are very rarely used. I'm asking the Minister to go into that. We have a mobility bonus for employers to hire people. We have made it easier, including for SMEs, to use them. My question to the Minister is whether there is anything to say about this. Is that gonna work? We do have other measures that will be relevant. I agree with Mr Heerma that the ESC's path to pay for sickness is also very essential in the discussion about people who are on the sidelines for a long time. I have a few more questions that have not yet been asked by previous speakers. In the CPB note I noticed a sentence about an effective reintegration policy. We have talked about this in the Chamber for a very long time, and we are still talking about it. This sentence reads: Long-term journeys are also more effective for older people. Unfortunately, we have to note that there are very few long journeys. This applies to both the municipalities and the UWV. Can the Minister reflect on that? We have, of course, taken a step forward, but probably not yet with the desired result, because there needs to be much more personal guidance to see what some people lack when it comes to their capabilities for the next step. Finally, I would like to ask a question because otherwise it may remain. We supported a legislative proposal, which was also Mr Van Weyenberg's explicit wish to continue working after reaching the age of AOW. We have also included an evaluation clause to see whether this will not lead to displacement. That is also relevant in this debate. I would also like to ask the Minister about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u22	I have a question concerning the interruption made by Mrs Vermeij during Mr Van Weyenberg's speech. In my view, Mr Krol's plea for senior jobs and for the importance of the ambassador getting on with it and, therefore, with the taboo that is on the move, is only strengthened by the research that Mrs Vermeij has just mentioned. Does the PvdA Group also see this and support the plea that the Ambassador is also going to deal with the creation of senior jobs of this kind and the breaking of the taboo that is on the move?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u23	First of all, I must say that I find the name abominable. I feel disgust with the word alone and I think the group itself feels the same way. That does not alter the fact that the conversations I have with people show that people just really want to get to work. By the way, I think the link with emotion is a very strange one. Demolition can be a matter of having a job and not getting a job. Then it's about the step to work. My impression is that people are then willing to do it for less or in another way. Demotion is really about a different discussion, because emotion is about having a job and making sure that people stay at work in a good way. I want to have both discussions and find them interesting. I also know it's already happening. In fact, there are even collective agreements. That's what I just mentioned. That is why I would not call it taboo. Sometimes we think we have a taboo in the Netherlands, but then it doesn't turn out to be taboo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u24	First of all, prevention is better than cure. So if that senior ambassador were to be able to prevent people from becoming unemployed for a long time, such an ambassador would be very useful. The uncomfortable feeling I get with long-term unemployment among the elderly is a bit bigger than the uncomfortable feeling I get with the word "demotion." Long-term unemployment among older people is a very big problem in the Netherlands. If companies are willing to talk more about emotion, which according to research is not the case, people can be prevented from becoming unemployed for a long time. Those people themselves want to talk about it because they don't want to lose their jobs. They know they're gonna get in trouble once they're out. That is why these two subjects are related and Mrs Vermeij should step over that uncomfortable feeling and see that there are opportunities here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u25	If you read that research correctly, then there should be a discussion with employers, as far as I am concerned, first of all at the collective agreement table, because you should bring together interests of both employees and employers here. So I do not see that there is a taboo on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u26	I am glad that Mrs Vermeij also wants to work on this in a way that is win-win for employee and employer. We must try to come up with solutions to this and I think there is still a taboo to be broken here and there. I would add that a new word would indeed be very nice; I have sometimes used 'harvest years'. Mrs Vermeij mentions a number of problems around the opportunity to keep your job or, if you've lost your job, to get back to work as an older person. One subject she didn't mention. I just wanted to make sure that was a coincidence. We also need to look at what is in collective agreements. I am thinking not only of the old days but also of the wage curve which raises questions because I think the gap is large. Does Mrs Vermeij agree with me that the collective agreement should also be a subject of that discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u27	First of all, I want to correct something. "We" have to do something about it. I have also just told Mr Heerma that I believe that this dialogue between employers and employees should be conducted in the first instance. Before we, as politicians, settle something together, it is first at the collective agreement table. Mr Van Weyenberg has rightly asked questions to the Minister about the wage curve before. The minister's gonna work on that. The wage curve doesn't exist. In the maintenance sector, the wage curve runs for up to 30 years. Then you're at the top of your curve. In many other sectors, it ends in 40 years. In education and care, it also ends for the 40th year of life. So the wage curve doesn't exist. The wage curve already runs much flatter in all states than ever before. I am therefore interested in the results, but I do not believe that we could do anything with one outcome. I know, by the way, that extensive discussions are currently taking place at the same collective agreement table. This concerns relief measures, old age days, but also a higher minimum youth wage. Those two last things are often mentioned together. Fortunately, they are also discussed many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u28	I agree with Mrs Vermeij on the minimum youth wage. The states, which we discussed earlier and which showed that the difference was 60%, and in Sweden and Finland, for example, 20% to 30%, indeed raises questions. For the sake of completeness: closing such a gap can be done in two ways. This can also be done by ensuring that people earn a bit more before, especially in expensive times. That is also a way of reducing the gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u29	It would be nice if all those young people had a nice contract in a permanent job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u30	Mr. Chairman. Last Tuesday I had a group of "elders" here to visit. I put that word in quotes, because you still think of such a drawing from children's books of a grandmother with grey hair and a knot, but fortunately people of 55 look a lot younger nowadays. I would say: look at Mr Krol, who is now clearly waving his arm. But it has just been said that nowadays when you are around 40 you may already fall into the category of older people. Anyway, I had that conversation with those 15 people and about ten of them had recently or a little longer ago lost their jobs. Several people pointed out that this is an incredible drama. That goes way beyond losing your income. People say they're obsessed with birthday parties because they can't tell us what they've been doing the past week. They lie awake at night because they wonder if they can continue to pay for the house where they have lived for 30 or 40 years. In short, a job, work is much more than just an income. Unfortunately, long-term unemployment among older people in the Netherlands is a specific problem. It is not possible to solve this problem for these people by giving older people with jobs all kinds of benefits, for example in collective agreements. After all, benefits don't help you if you don't have a job. With the best intentions in the Netherlands, we have done a lot of good things for people who already have a job, but that is sometimes at the expense of people who want to get a job. Employers tend to lose their heads partly because of policies to hire older people. Think of things like higher labour costs and extra leave days. Too often you hear from older workers that employers already drop out as soon as their age comes into the picture in job applications. This is partly a policy, but it is also an image issue, as stated in the Minister's letters. Although we did not vote in favour of the motion asking for an elder ambassador, we later said that, once he or she is there, we will do everything we can to make it a success. I think it is very important to bring employers down in a very smart way of unfair prejudice over older people. The best recipe against unemployment is, of course, a healthy economy. Let us also stress what has been going well since this cabinet took office. Public finances are back in order, we have made it possible to reduce the burden of 5 billion, and employment is rising, albeit too slowly, but it is rising again. Another note from the CPB came out this week. It states that we are in a structurally good position. The CPB notes that long-term unemployment could go back to the old level, but that we seem to have a structural problem in our system with regard to older people's unemployment. In response to things that were said just outside the microphone, I say again that the cabinet has done a good job. I come now to another point, but I see Mrs Karabulut standing at the interrupting microphone. I don't know if she has anything else to say about the previous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u31	The answer to the question of whether it is going well depends very much on the perspective from which you look at it. I think that the rich part of the Netherlands is indeed doing well and better, but that the middle class and the people with the lowest incomes are quite dramatic. The prognosis we had yesterday also shows that unemployment is falling slowly and that inequality is going to grow hugely in the years to come. 2 million people, including older unemployed, are looking for work or want to work more and there are 130,000 or 138,000 vacancies. What is Mr Van 't Wout going to do about this image problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u32	I do not understand the link between an image problem and the previous old-fashioned socialist, economic argument. That's what Mrs. Karabulut needs to point out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u33	Mr Van 't Wout could simply answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u34	It will be better if Mrs Karabulut makes the question clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u35	It is, of course, about the fact that the VVD always beats itself to the chest that it is the job champion and is good for the economy, while it is not so good at all, there are 2 million people looking for a job and unemployment is only growing. In other words, we can talk about ambassadors here, we can say once again that it is up to the workers and that we must return wages, while people do so, but at the heart of the problem is that there is just a huge shortage of jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u36	That is why it is such good news that the CPB came again this week with the state of the country for the coming years. The CPB sees that economic growth is continuing and that we will soon be given extra room in future Cabinets, whoever may be in them, in order, for example, to do more burden relief so that more jobs are created. I am incredibly proud of all the reforms we have made here, which have sometimes hurt a lot, and that we have pulled this country out of the crisis. No, we're still a long way from here, but we need to continue on this course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u37	I would like to make one more attempt, because 5 billion reliefs, a large part of which has gone to the rich as a gift, which is not so crazy with VVD policy... will not lead to it, even if you look at the report from the Central Planning Bureau, that there are indeed more jobs and that everyone in this country has a bit of a good thing. On the contrary, the uncertainty and the division grow, let alone the brutality. That is all growing and the measures do not have that impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u38	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u39	My question is whether, perhaps, with 2 million jobseekers, we should reverse the accelerated increase in the AOW age so that fewer elderly people need to apply uselessly for jobs that are not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u40	Mrs Karabulut paints a rather apocalyptic picture of the state of this country. No one denies that there are still problems and challenges, but we are much better off thanks to very difficult measures taken by this cabinet. I'm proud of that, and I'm full of it. We also see that we are in a better position in structural terms. The measures have been very sensible. Is that what we're dealing with? No, because of course it is not just in macroeconomic measures. You also need to look at whether there are things in the way we've set up the labour market that oppose older people or make them less mobile, because it might be unattractive to take another step in your career after your 50th. We have to keep working on that. In the spring, at least ten days according to the calendar, the Minister comes up with a plan to tackle long-term unemployment in the elderly. Partly at the request of the VVD, that plan should really be very concrete and include manageable objectives. The Minister said that without taboos, he is speaking today more often than not to look at measures. We'll hold him to that, too. I would ask him to include the following issues in this approach. Give an analysis of why the Netherlands is doing a little worse than the countries around us in terms of structural ageing unemployment. What can we learn from our neighbors? Go into Mrs Vermeij's question about the effectiveness of reintegration policy. In a separate frame in the CPB report, it says that we do not have enough picture of whether this works. Take a look at how the post-employment reflection model might counteract the fact that older people remain mobile in the labour market. Finally, please speed up the reduction of all these agreements in collective agreements that do not help older people, but rather keep older people off the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u41	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u42	Mr. Chairman. We are right to discuss this issue more often in the Chamber; earlier this month, for example, in a general discussion on the labour market in particular, we discussed the problem of long-term unemployment among older people. That is right, because this is a major problem for the people involved and therefore for society as well. I repeat Mr Van 't Wout: having a job is more than just having an income. It is also about social contacts, self-confidence and opportunities for development. All these elements cannot always be expressed in figures, but are incredibly important to all of us. If you are unemployed for a while, it may also be that skills and skills are declining and that it will then become even more difficult to get to work. The best way to combat long-term unemployment is economic recovery. Now that the economy is recovering, you can also see that the number of vacancies is increasing and the number of long-term unemployed is falling. The number of jobs increased by 48 000 in the fourth quarter of last year. That is the strongest growth in employment in four years. There are also for the first time more than 10 million jobs in the Netherlands. Long-term unemployment is declining. In the fourth quarter of 2015, 240,000 unemployed were looking for work for 12 months or more. This is 30,000 less than in the last quarter of 2014, but, as was rightly the case in the first period, not everyone benefits from the labour market to the same extent. For too many people, especially 50-plussers, economic growth itself is not enough. Of the unemployed 45+, 61% have been looking for work for a year or more. That share barely decreased compared to a year earlier. I am very concerned about that. I know the same goes for the Chamber. It is good to take a look at the employment rate of 50-plussers in general, which has improved tremendously in recent decades. The employment rate increased and people retire later. 50-plussers do not become unemployed more often than other groups. Once they have become unemployed, the problem arises that they find it more difficult to get a job. This indicates a poorly functioning labour market for older people. So we face a challenge. There is no simple solution to substantially reducing long-term unemployment. Leading Dutch economists Fortunately, we have distributed in our country a lot of leading economists about what is the best solution to tackle unemployment among 50-plussers. The reasons differ from one person to another. However, we see that the manoeuvrability and mobility of 50+ people in the labour market is limited, also because knowledge and skills are not always up-to-date. Furthermore, the image of 50-plus employees among employers is, wrongly, less positive. In addition, the search efforts of 50-plussers do not always match employers' demands. The Central Planning Bureau notes that longterm unemployment among this group is more than a cyclical problem; it is a structural problem. The other side of this story is that the employment rate is increasing structurally. This is actually the only group in which it has continued to rise in recent years, even during the economic crisis. In 2010, the net employment rate of 55-plussers was 53%. In 2014, it was almost 60%. The document of the Central Planning Bureau states that fundamental revisions are needed. The recent reforms and the existing measures partly respond to the proposals made by the Central Planning Office. Many measures have been taken in recent years. They came to the speeches in the first term. The Central Planning Office says that a temporary wage subsidy can be effective in combating long-term unemployment. We have provided for this in several ways. For employers, the mobility bonus makes it financially attractive to employ a person aged 56 or over from a benefit. There is also the possibility of testing. In order to obtain a fair view of an employee before taking up employment, a test placement may be chosen. During that period, an employee is employed with maintenance of benefit. Since 1 July last year, the WW has had a system of income relief. If a WW'er accepts a job with a lower wage than before, I share the view of the MPs that jobseekers are almost all inclined to do so, because it is not a joyful existence in the WW and you are eager to get back to work, then the WW fills up that gap for the remaining WW duration, making you make progress when you start working. In addition, there is a no-risk policy for jobseekers who were born before 8 July 1954 and are in the WW for at least one year. If these jobseekers are now going to work, there is the compensation scheme for older workers, in case such a worker would unexpectedly become ill. There is also the ongoing Action Plan 50PlusWorks, aimed at helping unemployed people over 50 to get to work. The core of it is: training for 50-plussers with which they are taught in the labour market on the basis of their knowledge and skills and their competences. VU in Amsterdam investigates the net effectiveness of this type of network training. I have already promised the Chamber that it will carry out this investigation and report the results as soon as possible. The first short-term results show that participating in such training has a positive and effective effect on the outflow from the WW. Participation in such training increases the outflow potential by 3 percentage points within nine months. This represents a relative increase of 9%. The effect increases over time. The observation period is still too short to comment on the long-term effects, cost-effectiveness and quality of the job found afterwards. However, it is important that we now see these first encouraging results. The Central Planning Office also proposes that some long-term unemployed be retrained in order to improve their position on the labour market. This is why the above Action Plan introduced training vouchers: a training-oriented subsidy for job seekers or employers who employ a 50-year-old. On 1 May, at the request of the House of Representatives, these training vouchers will be made more widely available, so that the whole group of job seekers can retrain themselves for promising occupations. Reforms in the field of dismissal and WW have also taken important steps to improve the labour market position of 50+. For example, with the Work and Security Act, the link between age and the level of remuneration after dismissal has been abandoned. In addition, the Work and Security Act stimulates the active search for work even more than before. The duration of WW benefits has been reduced; the maximum duration is reduced gradually. Also, what is meant to be accepted "appropriate labor" has been tightened. The counterpart of this is the resumption of pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go. In addition, we have eased the burden on labour. This leads to a structural improvement in employment which also benefits older jobseekers. Still, more is needed. We discussed this in November last year when we discussed the budget for this year. I am in agreement with the social partners to come up with a common approach to further strengthen the labour market position of 50+. This requires an integrated approach that addresses all bottlenecks as much as possible at the same time. This integrated approach should ensure that the 50-pluser is more manoeuvrable, stronger on the labour market and able to re-direct his or her career. The approach should help to remove prejudices about functioning. I will be presenting that approach to the Chamber shortly. Spring has now begun; we have seen this not only on the calendar but also on the calendar. What's it all about now? I've agreed with the Chamber that the Central Planning Office would also look into this. Moreover, the spring decision-making process is relevant to ensure that there is not only a plan, but that we also release resources for it. Mr Krol has rightly asked who will be the figurehead to remove the prejudices over 50-plussers. I do notice that a future figurehead soon becomes the mailbox for all the complicated cases that need to be resolved. We still have to look at that. I can't tell who's gonna be the figurehead yet, but it won't be long. I expect to be able to come up with a name in two weeks. I am positive and enthusiastic about the direction it is taking now, but this has to be done first. Then I'll share that figurehead with the room. I see an important role for him or her in changing thinking about the elderly, the atmosphere surrounding it and the way SMEs look at it. I've travelled the same route as Mr. De Graaf. First opposing and finally convinced, I now threaten to get excited about the added value of such a figurehead. Mr Krol and Mr Heerma asked whether the age for the no-risk policy should be released, which was now set on 8 July 1954. Unfortunately, we are dealing with a reduction in the resources available. The speakers are also aware of this. I appreciate their suggestion, because this is indeed one of the instruments that I think are important. I'll take the suggestion to the social partners, but it costs money. We must be able to provide it with cover. I'm not saying no right away, I'm taking the suggestion, but I can't say yes right away either, because it's an expensive suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u43	I understand that it has budgetary effects, but I also see the Minister's benevolent attitude. I believe that there is every reason to reduce that age, because when the scheme was introduced, the assumption was that the problems in the labour market would be much smaller. However, reality is different. My impression is that the budgetary impact is limited and that it is little money. Can the Minister give an estimate of these budgetary effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u44	I will go into that when I come out of the talks with the plans. I don't have this ready right now. I do know that there are budgetary effects. I might be able to put a second-term number on this. There are six experts in the box who can shake this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u45	There is another question. It's an interesting thought. In my opinion, we had all failed to understand exactly what is happening with age and that this is being phased out. But it has to work. Can we also take into account the experiences of recent years? If it had no budgetary impact at all, it would not have been good, because that would mean that little use is made of the instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u46	That's the countermal. It is a requirement that we must make this kind of plan together: they must be effective. I have just given a brief outline of the measures we have taken. I'm proud of them, and I think they're important, because this means you don't abandon people. We also need to look at the measures that are most effective. How do you get the most out of your euro? What do the elderly benefit most? How is it that some measures are being used less than we expected and wished for? We will look at this ourselves, but scientific research is already being carried out on specific areas. I know that the Court of Auditors is also looking at the effectiveness of the means of reintegration, and that comes with accountability. That is why it is important to give a picture and a sound in the plan that I am making of what we know about the effectiveness of the measures that have been taken. The same applies to this measure. The SP suggests requiring employers to sign at least one annual contract. I understand that very well, because of course you want people not just to come to work for a little while. You also want it to be good work and to create a lasting employment relationship. With different measures, we make different demands on employers' return performance, including the length of contracts. This is also one of the subjects that I take into account in the discussions with the social partners. What can we expect employers to return to security for job seekers in exchange for labour market subsidies, no-risk policies and additional facilities for employers? You're not gonna give people a day's contract, because then we won't have achieved anything together. However, if you push the demand too far, you run the risk that the medicine will not be used. So you miss the effect of a follow-up contract, because once you start working together, you often like it well. That's what you often see in practice. This balance has to come back to the discussion with the social partners. In addition, I asked the Economic and Social Committee to give its opinion on the labour market position of long-term jobseekers, also on the basis of the motion tabled by the Christian Union in the First Chamber. The ESC will therefore also have to look at this element in order to find out how jobseekers are most helped. You would prefer to have a permanent contract for everyone, but then you have the chance that the instruments are not proving to be effective enough. How do we find the right balance in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u47	I'm glad the Minister is thinking in that direction, too. That is necessary, because we see so far that the balance sheet is always, or in many cases, negative for employees. What's the Minister thinking about himself? What will be his input and when can we expect a feedback from that conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u48	To begin with, in the action plan, which should come in spring and rather not at the end of spring, it will be 20 June. We're all in a hurry. The impact of the discussions with the social partners is reflected in that plan. What's my angle on that? That's a fair question. I want an optimal balance. I would like to set up the measures so that employers will use them and that employees will have as much security as possible. That will not be an unlimited contract and it will not always be a contract for a year, but maybe we can get close to it. That depends on the amount of money we have left for that and how it goes about fighting prejudice. I would like to achieve that the large group of people who are eager to show their talents and use them on the labour market will also have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u49	Do I have to think about something between six months and one year? This is a bit crazy, because we're talking about talented and experienced employees. It is quite ridiculous that we should hang subsidies on them and that we should actually be begging employers. I don't want to, and I really think we should stop doing that. Anyway, let's try. It should not be small hyper-temporal jobs through the agency, because then we will babble the greenhouses of the agency. It must be a six-month or an annual contract. We also need to be able to measure the results, because we can't do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u50	That's two ways. The first one is about a wish. I share that wish, but I think we agree that we depend on employers to give people a job. That's why they're called workers. We cannot oblige that from here. We do want people to work sustainably, otherwise we would not use these resources properly and not handle taxpayers' money properly. The second is the requirement of measurability, so we need to be able to demonstrate its effectiveness. That goes for the things we've already put in place, but also for the new plan. I agree. The SP also asked about the job application obligation for older people. Because of my conversations with older job seekers, I recognize the frustrations very well. One often writes dozens, sometimes hundreds of letters and gets standard reactions back. I would indeed like to use the coming period to talk about more effective methods of shaping the search for work for older people. We can ask ourselves whether it has now been designed in the smartest way possible. That duty now leads to a great deal of frustration and very little result. We also do not want that duty to disappear, because in fact you write people off with it and leave it entirely to chance. I think we are right to ask people to commit themselves to getting back to work, but with the SP and many others I have my doubts about the way in which this is being put into practice, and in particular about the open application letters of older people. If something doesn't work out, we need to think of something smarter. This is one of the subjects I am discussing with the social partners. If we manage to think of something better for that, it will have to be included in the action plan. The SP noted that there is a very large group of people who would like to work more and also a large group who would like to work less or not. It is known in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u51	Let me come back to the last point, because that is also about services. Many of the complaints I receive by e-mail or through our ombuds teams are about older job seekers who do write letters, but do volunteer work and want to consult with the UWV. The default answer of the UWV is: this has consequences for your benefit, point. Is that also the subject of discussion with that approach? It is part of the whole process of personal services and people's interaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u52	Yeah, it's the subject of conversation. No, it's not all in this plan. In itself, it is useful and necessary to improve the service of UWV. Resources have been provided by the Chamber to see whether more service can achieve more results and help people get to work sooner. Based on what I've seen and heard from UWV so far, there's music in there. I think it can be rewarding to give people a little more space to provide personal services, not on the ticket tip, but on people who have that chance of success, to ensure that they get out of the benefit situation early and get to work. I do not think that all this should be included in this action plan and that we should now focus on this specific but still broad problem of older long-term unemployed, but of course there is a link. I also recognise very much what Mrs Vermeij says, namely that in recent years, also as a result of austerity, it has often been "crooked kitchen manager', including in the service sector. Often UWVs would have liked to do more but they didn't have the space for that. We have already provided funds for this in the Action Plan 55PlusWorks. I think that there too a better balance is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u53	Thank you for that answer. From the many letters we receive from at least a lot of people, there is quite a bit of frustration. I hope that will really change, also because of the way in which the UWV deals with these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u54	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut spoke about the large group of people who feel discouraged and the large group of people who would like to work more. After such a deep crisis in the labour market, this is a well-known phenomenon. If you take a closer look at yesterday's Central Planning Office figures, you will see that after such an exceptionally difficult crisis, it will take a very long time before the labour market is fully restored. It does happen that good news is also included in the report, but it takes a very long time and therefore also for the people who suffer from it. In the meantime, the labour market is certainly attracting attention. It is precisely the group of unofficial unemployed that we are also seeing increasingly returning to the labour market and actively seeking and motivated by this attracting labour market, for example by the 5 billion package. This increase in labour supply, which in itself is a positive development for the Netherlands and for those people, also makes the fall in unemployment slower than if that group did not return to work. On balance, therefore, the long-term development is positive, because we are working with more people and we are carrying with more people the burden on the social services that make this country such a fine country, but it is causing a slower decline than you would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u55	It is not 588 000 people, as the Minister communicates, but 2 million people, as the Dutch Bank has recently put out in a note. That's quite a difference. Does this minister recognise that unemployment is greater than he communicates with his figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u56	The figures I communicate are the figures according to the definitions we agreed with the Chamber. In addition, we know that too, and we also communicate about this ourselves.There are many people who would like to work more. The Netherlands Bank also points that out. I acknowledge that there is a difference between 2 million and 0.5 million. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u57	If the Minister acknowledges that, the question is what is he doing with this information. There's a huge offer. If you sell 2 million against 138,000 vacancies instead of 600,000, that makes quite a difference. We are talking here about people who are simply no longer in business and about a huge shortage of jobs. Does the Minister recognise this and is he prepared to invest in such a way as to increase the number of jobs available, for example by reversing the accelerated increase in the AOW age next year? That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u58	On the first part of the question, the answer is yes. Employment growth is crucial. And we can see that. Again, there was a growth of almost 50,000 in the last quarter of 2015. The second part of the question contains a misunderstanding. The number of jobs will not increase if you reduce retirement age again or if you stop the rise in retirement age. That is not going to increase the number of jobs. The number of jobs is now growing as a result of economic recovery. It grows by investing and spending again. The art now is to continue that growth, so as to sustain it and ensure that economic recovery can continue, and in the meantime to ensure that we get people back into the labour market. For the group of people looking for long-term work and over 50 years of age, structural problems are at issue. That's why we're making a specific plan for them. The spokesperson of D66 also calls for a debate to be held and to be discussed in the discussions with the social partners, precisely because wages and productivity need to be balanced. As I have already indicated, we are talking to social partners. I say to Mr Van Weyenberg that this discussion should also focus on preventing long-term unemployment. Adapting the work to the skills of the employee may be necessary to keep someone permanently employable within an organisation. This adjustment may be necessary, for example, because the job becomes too heavy and therefore threatens unemployment or because the employee can use his knowledge and skills better in another place or in another way. Adjustment of work can also be accompanied by a decline in income. But it can also mean a step sideways or sometimes even up. How can you allow companies to make the conversation about these kinds of adjustments better? In my view, that is one of the main questions that you cannot apply in general to all workers..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The research quoted by Mrs Vermeij also shows this. I believe that, apart from the problem of unemployment, the rapid change in the labour market requires more manoeuvrability from organisations and workers, but that you must enable people to do so. The question that needs to be asked in a safe environment, in an open conversation with executives, is: how can I continue to contribute with pleasure and health until my retirement while the work changes quickly? That conversation should be held in organisations in the Netherlands. Workers understand very well that if they start to work less, if they start to do other and lighter work, that also means something for their reward. This was a long version of the answer yes. However, I think it is important to provide it with that context because, as the Members of Parliament themselves say, it is not just about taking money from someone. No, it's about how to keep people in the Netherlands working with pleasure and healthy. We have a huge interest in that. The spokesperson of D66 also asks to ensure that the UWV does not take irreversible steps with regard to the repair of the WW duration. The UWV is not going to take irreversible steps. We have talked about this before, for example by means of privacy rules. In addition, social partners can already make agreements in collective agreements, including on repair or over-statutory WW. This has also been confirmed in the social agreement. The role of the UWV is to provide data for the implementation of such schemes if it wishes. I will then report on the establishment of such arrangements in the annual report on collective agreements. This means that, apart from the agreements already promised on those privacy-like elements, I see no reason to impose further restrictions on the UWV now. It already has a limited role and it is an independent competence of the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u59	Have I understood correctly to the Minister that the figurehead is going to discuss the subject of demotion again, another word is going to fit in with it, and its discussionability is going to take it into account in his work? My second question concerns the last point. The Minister and I disagree on those additions. I do not want the UWV to conclude contracts with which politics is attached in the future. Have I understood correctly to the Minister that UWV is cooperating, of course within the privacy rules, and that there is no private-law commitment that will in future limit the room for the Chamber to make a different choice? That was the limit I was looking for. There should not be a ten-year exchange of data between the UWV and Raet, which we are attached to, even if in the future a majority of the House says: let us not do this anymore. It must not be the case that the government, the UWV, is committed to something, which means that we are also attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u60	Now I am beginning to wonder whether this is a balanced request in the light of the debate we are having today. I have indicated that UWV must comply with all data exchange rules. I see no reason to intervene in UWV's private-law roles and powers, which it exercises within the framework given by us by public law. That means I'm not gonna send UWV to do all kinds of things. Nor does it mean that I impose a speculative, fictitious ban on a possible contract. Firstly, the question is whether this is reasonable. Secondly, is this helping to solve the problem that we are discussing? I would not like to get in the position of blaming Mr Van Weyenberg for trying, through this innocent request, to achieve something that he failed to achieve at other times, namely to prohibit the social partners themselves from making use of their power to make such an appointment. I wouldn't want to get into that position. That is why I would now like to pass on this request to Mr Van Weyenberg politely, not to do so here. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to turn it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u61	I will come back to this in second place. The reason I am asking is not because I want to enter the area of the social partners. I like that, but that wasn't what I asked right now. I didn't ask my question either because I think it should stop cooperating with UWV. I may think so, but we have talked about this before. I am concerned that there may be an outcome that will bind the hands of the Chamber in the future. If the Minister says that he hopes that this motion will be held for a moment because he wants to take a more careful look at it, then I will understand that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u62	That is how I know Mr Van Weyenberg: reasonableness itself. I'll see what comes in second. I note that ginnegappening is responding to this. I also know Mrs Karabulut as a reasonable person, no misunderstanding about that. I will soon turn to Mr Heerma's questions on the reintegration budget for a number of municipalities. I know I'm not doing Mr Heerma any favors by calling him reasonable. That's bad for his position in his party. We have recognised the problem presented by Mr Heerma. This is a result of a new distribution system of the participation budget, which started in 2015. As a result, municipalities with a high assistance density are given more than under the old distribution system, which applied until 2014. Municipalities have a low level of assistance. The problem is technical. We're talking to the VNG to do that. Mrs Vermeij also asked me to look at the effects of the Working Act after the age of AOW, particularly at the points of repression and unfair competition between job seekers. Are we seeing any of that already? No, not right now. The aim of the law is to give people who want to continue working a greater chance to do so on the basis of a contract of employment. That objective seems legitimate to me. It is also good for the labour market as a whole. It is, of course, not explicitly intended that the law should lead to the displacement of non-AOW entitled workers. The CPB says that this will not be the case in the longer term. However, the CPB mentions the possibility of short-term displacement. For this reason, a number of specific measures have been included in the legislation. For example, the law has been reviewed two years after entry into force. The question of such displacement can therefore also be raised. Is it true that the training vouchers are only used very limitedly? No, that's not right. In 2015, 9,151 of such vouchers were provided, while the prediction was that there would be 5,500. So that's almost double. Until February of this year 1,565 vouchers were provided. That fits the predictions for this year. Ms Vermeij asked about the impact of the adjustment on SMEs in making use of the mobility bonus. Is that gonna work? It is at least much easier for employers to make use of that bonus. You had the effect that because of the technique behind it, especially small employers, who pay little premiums, really didn't get anything with part of those instruments. This is a shame, because SMEs have a lot of employment growth, there are many vacancies and there are opportunities for older job seekers. I think it is an important task for that figurehead to enthuse SMEs. You don't always reach them through the domes or through the VNO's entrepreneurial magazine. Those people are running their businesses, so we need to find a more direct way. The answer is yes. In any case, it is much simpler and therefore more attractive for small employers to use the tools available. I'm sure it'll work. It was a suggestion from the SGP to do something about it. The SGP is not here right now, but honour who deserves it. I am glad that this legislation is through. Mrs Vermeij also pointed out that for older people in particular long-term reintegration paths and personal guidance were effective. Where does that lead? I think it's one of the key questions to ask is how you can best help job seekers over 50. We have already given the UWV more budget for the application of that personal service. We were just talking about that. It is true: effectiveness must be paramount, and if it means longer work and more personal services are needed, then that is very worthwhile. The VVD asks me to investigate why we are doing so much worse than other countries. That's not necessarily true. Especially with regard to the participation of the 50+ group, we are doing very, very well. In addition, a number of studies have already been carried out, for example by the European Commission. In that you can see that we are particularly weak and that we must also be honest about activation policy. There is also a rather obvious explanation for this: the substantial cuts in the UWV's budget have simply reduced this. You can see that in the results of those investigations. We now have a chance to improve that. The second point that makes the VVD is looking at its effectiveness. I very much support that. I believe that this should be an integral part of the way in which we organise our policies, especially here, where people are so dependent on them and where we have to use a lot of measures at the same time. It's important to look at that. I'll keep that meeting with the Chamber. Paragraph 3 deals with the relief measures in collective agreements. This is an important subject, which is also reflected in this debate. In the 2020 policy agenda, the social partners themselves indicated that generic measures that do not contribute to that other important goal, keeping people healthy and employable, should be converted. This has been done in a number of collective agreements, but not in a number of others. With the social partners, I am now looking at how we could achieve this more quickly. Some measures are needed to keep people fit and happy at work. That's what we're all for, I think. Other measures, which do not contribute to this, should be converted into things that make people more adaptable or otherwise contribute to the proper functioning of the labour market. How this can be done faster, I think is one of the important issues. I am therefore making a commitment to that too. Paragraph 4 deals with the principle of reflection. Transforming the principle of reflection in order to combat the unemployment of older people could be achieved by introducing the libo model: burden in, first out. This means that older people are the last to be eligible for dismissal in the event of dismissal for business reasons. That was how we arranged it until 2006. At that time, the libo model was replaced by the principle of reflection, precisely for the reason that we wanted to spread redundancies across the different groups. In doing so, we wanted to limit the very privileged position of older workers when they were fired. I don't think it would be the right way to go back to the libo system. The principle of reflection is not perfect either. It keeps looking for the right buttons and the right balance. Resignation is a nasty measure. How do you divide up the pain honestly when it goes so badly for employees to be fired? I think that this system is generally more fair than the old system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u63	Nor have I argued for a return to the old system. I have said that you see in the CPB report there this is an aspect of what is important to prevent unemployment in the elderly to remain mobile, even in later stages of their lives. In some aspects of the right of dismissal there are still incentives not to change jobs at a later point in your life. Well, that's improved. I had a question about the big plan. Take a very specific look at what hinders labour mobility and see if we can do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u64	That's where I'm positive. Reliability of older workers is in the interests of the workers themselves. It makes you less vulnerable when you work in multiple places and if you are not necessarily dependent on your current employer's work. You'll be stronger on the labour market. However, that is not something you can arrange if people are already threatened with dismissal. We have been able to do this here and there. With the sectoral plans, we have been able to keep many older people in work by offering targeted training and retraining. It is, however, much better if the organisation is well organized, if its policy is well defined. The regulation should help make it pay to invest in the manoeuvrability of workers and that it also pays for the employee. I agree. This is a topic that should be reflected prominently in the Action Plan. I believe that I have come to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u65	Thank you. I see that there is a need for a second term. I call Mr Krol. Speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u66	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I would particularly like to thank him for his commitment to the ambassador for the employment of older people. Surely I understand that the 141 days are off the table and that he strives for this to be a maximum of 155 days? I would also like to thank the Minister for considering my proposals for the no-risk policy. I've been talking to a lot of employers about that lately. They all regret that the scheme is dying out. In the past, it has been much easier for employers to hire. That's gonna pay off, too. I understand that the Minister must see what it will cost, but I am now convinced, and many experts with me, that it will pay more than it costs. That's why I'm filing the next motion, [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Temporary Law on compensation for wage costs in the event of illness of older and former long-term unemployed (no-riskpolis) contributes to reducing labour costs for employers and increasing employment opportunities for older workers;]] [[Considering that this law was motivated in 2009 by the then poor labour market position of older unemployed people and targeted specifically at 55-year-olds and over, up to the age of AOW;]] [[Whereas, to date, little or nothing has changed in these circumstances;]] [[Furthermore, considering that the law applies to workers born before 8 July 1954 and that therefore the age limit is now 61 years and 9 months and is becoming higher until the law expires;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the law so that it applies to workers aged 55 and over,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-706]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u67	Mr. Chairman. We are dealing with 2 million people who are looking for work or want to work more. There have been many cases here, such as prejudices, unwilling employers and a very idiotic labour market that cares more about capital than about human capital. It's crazy to say that older people should apply completely dull, just to organize their own disappointment. I am glad that after two years Mr Ulenbelt has been working on this for a very long time too, the Minister has promised that we can finally expect good news in spring. At least that's what I'm assuming. If, despite this madness, employers are given a subsidy to give older workers a place on the labour market, so a job, then at least there is a contract. On this point, too, the Minister made a commitment. What the minister does not do is to tackle the two major problems of this time: the shortage of jobs for the growing unemployment resulting from the socio-economic policy of this cabinet, and the growing inequality associated with it. Despite the fact that the VVD and this minister today are pretending to have wonderful figures out, the opposite is the case. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the accelerated increase in the AOW age results in higher long-term unemployment;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the accelerated increase in the AOW age as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-707]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u68	In addition to investing in people and in jobs, that is what this country needs to really fight unemployment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u69	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I look forward to the appointment of the figurehead, but also to the concrete actions that will be taken to tackle unemployment among the elderly and long-term unemployment. I look forward to implementing the motion I tabled earlier with Mr Krol on collective agreements. I welcome the commitment that the figurehead will also look at senior jobs and demotion and explore how that can get a better place in practice. I think it is a good commitment and I therefore reject a motion on that point. I do have another motion on the extension of the WW year. I have listened carefully to the Minister and will continue this motion to give him a week's time to reply in writing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the UWV is cooperating in a pilot project to implement the extended duration of WW in collective agreements;]] [[Whereas in the future other choices can be made as to how to contribute to the extension of the WW;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, if the UWV is to contribute to the implementation of the extended duration of the WW, this is done in such a way that it is always reversible in the foreseeable future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-708]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u70	I am also very much looking forward to working out and the answers from the Minister, who is going to find out about the pay gap and the burden in first out rules. Even with the improved reflection principle, it may still be the case that if you have just arrived as a 30-year-old or 40-year-old, you are the first to go out. That is not an incentive for mobility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u71	Mr. Chairman. During the last six months many things have been put in motion regarding the position of older people in the labour market, which are not necessarily due to this debate, because it has been discussed before. That is the action plan that we have referred to today, which is the important SER advice on pay-as-you-go andzzp currently under way, and that is also the discussion that the Minister will have with the social partners within the STAR on the possibilities they will offer under the Work and Security Act. However, there are still some new issues in the debate today. I do not mean merely the assessment of the Minister's policy and the results of the VVD colleagues. That was a slightly different tone from what we heard a few months ago; the Minister will be pleased with that. It is a good thing that the Ambassador for Older People's Unemployment is actually here and that he is going to look at senior jobs and emotion. I would still like to hear from the Minister in the second term what the budgetary implementation of this will be. It is also very good that the Minister is prepared to look at the possibilities of bringing the no-risk policy back to 55 years. I welcome Mr Krol's motion and we shall hear what the Minister has to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u72	Mr. Chairman. In this debate we are actually taking back what we have done before, but it is indeed bringing new issues to the fore. In fact, I believe that all parties, but at least the Labour Party, are not satisfied with the labour market for people over 50 years of age. I am not consistently talking about the 'work market for the elderly'. The Minister really has the problem on the retina, and I am actually happy about that. He has not often said that this labour market is not working properly in this area, but he has said so today. The Minister also said that things must be done. This creates great expectations about the plan of action that needs to be taken. Actually, there's a lot on the table. There is also a very specific problem on the table, namely that someone who becomes unemployed at an older age has a much less chance of getting back to work. This opportunity is also much smaller for him than for people of his age in the neighbouring countries. This also means that we will really have to do something extra in this respect to ensure that these jobs are created, and that employers simply invite these workers to a conversation and give them a fair chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u73	Can my group count on the support of the PvdA Group for our motion? We should not make any more elderly people long-term unemployed by accelerating the increase in the age of AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u74	The short answer to that question is no. The long answer to that question is that behind that reality lies the fact that we cannot assume one-on-one that if we stop raising the age of AOW or bring that age down again, there will be more jobs for this category of people. All studies show that there is or can be no one-to-one link between them. So we will really have to look at the problem much more specifically. People who lose their jobs and are in a certain age group can find it very difficult to get a new job. We will therefore have to look at what is happening specifically on the Dutch labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u75	We are talking about older jobseekers who have lost their jobs. The older they are, the less chances they have. Mrs Vermeij knows that, too. But she says to the people in this group: you need to apply even longer and get even more frustration. Mrs Vermeij knows there are no jobs for this group, right? Isn't that the kind of problem you're gonna exacerbate? You can't deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u76	That is why I put a question to the Minister about that final phase. I actually asked that question with Mrs Karabulut. In the latter phase, people are therefore burdened with a job application obligation which is sometimes very complicated and which sometimes does not seem to end, while those people could also give a good interpretation of their lives in a different way, preferably with real work. Sometimes, however, they do so in a different way. I have heard from the Minister that he is discussing this with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u77	Mr. Chairman. I don't mean this negatively, but this is kind of a "intermediate debate." We have, of course, discussed a number of measures some time ago and we are all full of expectations about the big plan that the Minister is coming up with this spring. According to the VVD, the profit of this debate is that there are now a few things in that plan that my group really likes to see in it. However, I would like to ask the Minister to come back a little more clearly on two points. First of all, he easily crossed my point about the international comparison. I really don't expect big piles of pieces to be dug through. And yes, of course in the Netherlands we are doing a lot better than in other countries. However, in the case of structural unemployment among older people, the Netherlands is simply on the wrong side of the line, also compared to countries that are quite similar to our country. I think you should just look at that with an open eye. I hope the Minister can devote some analysis to this in his plan. The second point concerns the austerity measures in the collective agreement. You can see some movement in that over the last few years, but as far as the VVD is concerned, that doesn't happen fast enough. The Minister now states that he is discussing this matter. If he presents that plan, I'd like to hear from him what progress is and what numbers and dates are trying to achieve. Because, as the Minister knows, the VVD believes that it is up to the political, in this case the minister, to do something about it himself if it does not end up being quick enough with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u78	The Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u79	Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask Mr Krol politely for his motion on item No. 706 about the no-riskpolis to hold for a moment. It concerns the amendment of the law on that age. I understand his plea, but there are a few reasons why I'd like to take a look at that. I want to look at the costs, but also at the effectiveness in the light of all the other measures we are taking. All the more so because this is a measure that is attractive on the one hand, but on the other hand carries the risk of confirming the prejudices of employers, because he stresses that there is apparently a risk. Nevertheless, Mr Krol has rightly regarded my attitude as positive. If he wanted to hold the motion, I wouldn't have to advise her now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u80	I am very pleased with the Minister's suggestion, but I would like to know what date the Minister has completed that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u81	So I have to go into this in the more often mentioned action plan, which has been promised that it should come in the spring. I have reinforced that commitment again with the announcement that this should not be on 20 June, but rather earlier, although 20 June is still the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u82	In that case, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u83	At the request of Mr Krol, I propose his motion (29544, No. 706). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u84	Mrs Karabulut's motion on item No. 707, which wants to bring down the AOW age again, lacks coverage. Besides, I don't share the consideration either, so I advise against her. Mr Van Weyenberg's motion on item No. 708 I also advise against. The UWV now works within the existing legal frameworks. They determine what the UWV can and cannot do and they are also determined by the Chamber. If anything should change, these frameworks need to be adapted. However, an additional adjustment or limitation would not be considered here, because then you will intervene in the way in which the UWV should or could move against private contract partners. I do not think that is necessary, not even in the light of the concern of Mr Van Weyenberg, whom I know and understand. There is no need to enforce this through an extrajudicial limitation of the UWV's capabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u85	The answer confuses me somewhat, because I am not asking for an extrajudicial restriction at all. I'm just asking you not to do things that make us commit. The minister just said in a subtlety that my care is not necessary. That'd be great. So is the UWV going to make agreements that, for example, a new government is bound to for a number of years or not? If the Minister says that's not gonna happen, I can withdraw the motion as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u86	I cannot, of course, make that commitment; that would be very strange. The UWV must act within the law as it is. The fact that there will be elections in a year's time and not in four years' time should not matter. After all, we do not know what these elections will bring or what the new government will bring. This would mean that any public authority would be able to conclude contracts for a maximum of one year. That is unreasonable and not democratic. There are frameworks for what the UWV may or may not do; which are changed when the legal frameworks are modified. That is what politics and this Chamber itself are about. You can do that at any time of the day. But to say that, in view of a possible new government, the possibilities of concluding ordinary legitimate contracts should be further restricted, I do not think that it is reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u87	Does the UWV intend to make agreements on the provision of data that bind it for a longer period of time and cannot be cancelled in a shorter period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u88	I don't know. That seems to me to be a request for information. I want to be able to answer them precisely and correctly, and I am happy to do so. Whatever the answer is, however, the principle position is that you should not do things other than in three years' time on the basis of the fact that there will be elections in a year's time. That's a strange way to look at reality. I'll answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u89	I would have asked the same question if the elections were in three years' time. I'll hold the motion now. I'll wait for the Minister's letter. Maybe he can tell me when to expect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u90	In a week or two, Mr. Chairman. The communication with the officials went lightning fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u91	I saw two fingers, but that could mean two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u92	No, I interpret it as two weeks and see that the civil service isn't pulling out white.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u93	At the request of Mr Van Weyenberg, I propose his motion (29544, No. 708). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u94	I have one more question for the Minister. That is a question that, having heard this debate, is bubbling up in society. One term has been dropped very often. That's a figurehead. Is that figurehead gonna be a paid job? And if so, will it be someone older and looking for work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u95	If you let people do work, I think you should basically pay for it. I see to Mrs Karabulut that we are once again in agreement on that point. The figurehead shall be suitable for the performance of this function. I'm gonna fill that out to the best of my ability. Then we will see whether Mrs Karabulut is satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u96	Of course, it sounds funny, but we know that there are a lot of qualified job seekers, especially within this group. Wouldn't it be nice if we selected someone who has the experience, feels the pain and knows exactly where the problem is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u97	Anyone who is not motivated to do that work and who is not looking for that work will not be willing to act as a figurehead. So there is no alternative but to accept Mrs Karabulut's wish. I can't give someone a job that's not looking for that job. That doesn't fit our system either. Mr Heerma has asked me to deal with the cost of extending the no-risk policy. He's back there. I told you this would cost more money, but I still don't know exactly how much that will be. This depends on a number of elements, including the design. In response to Mr Krol, I have just said that I want to look at the effectiveness of the instrument and the possible impact on the employer's pre-existing prejudices. That is why I want to include it in the action plan. Mr Krol was already prepared to hold the motion on that point. I therefore hope that this patience will prove contagious, I say in the direction of Mr Heerma. The PvdA gives an important message that the whole thing should lead to a fair opportunity for people who are looking for work again. That also seems to me to be an important leitmotiv. Honestly, that's what people want most. It's not about all kinds of things more or less, but about a normal chance at paid work to show what you can do. I think that's what motivates us all. The VVD says: Don't be so economical with that international comparison. Maybe I was a little short on that. Of course, I am very interested in those elements in which the Netherlands is doing less well than comparable countries. Where you can learn something from that, we should definitely do it. On this one, I admit it. I agree with Mr Van 't Wout. We've talked about relief measures before. It is crucial that they are converted into agility promotion in the interests of workers themselves. The VVD indicates: otherwise we will do it. However, you come to the question of whether this is up to us. It is private parties who make agreements with each other: employers and employees. Sometimes we find them sensible and sometimes we find them less sensible. That is why I have also indicated that I want to talk to the social partners. They have included in their own agenda the ambition for 2020 that employment participation among that group will continue to increase and that austerity measures that do not contribute to the healthy and enjoyable achievement of the final goal will be rebuilt. I think it's the most productive thing right now to stick to them and point them out. We need to see if we can make agreements on this that can land in the plan. I understand very well that the VVD expects a lot of that and also wants to see that in the plan. I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u99	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next week. I thank the Minister and his officials and suspend the meeting for dinner break.
