ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u1	Mr. Chairman. It's contract time. Then we are often approached by healthcare providers because something is not going well. They are not contracted for unclear reasons, or there are requirements and conditions that they cannot actually meet. In order to address this irritation and this imbalance between large health insurers and small healthcare providers, it has now been agreed that dispute resolution will take place. We support that. We are curious to see how the Minister will follow the practice. Turns out it's common? Are the procedures going to be long? Could she say a little bit more about that? What we do not think is going well is that new thresholds are being put in place in this dispute resolution. Small healthcare providers have to pay high own contributions. That can in itself be another threshold to restore balance. We would like to fix this and therefore submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the own contribution to the arbitration costs for small healthcare providers may exceed €10,000;]] [[Whereas this is a disproportionate risk for small healthcare providers and therefore raises a threshold for independent dispute resolution;]] [[considers that this fails to meet the objective of this proposal to restore the balance between health insurers and healthcare providers in the contracting process;]] [[calls on the Government not to ask for its own contributions to the arbitration costs for healthcare providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-790]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u2	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u3	Mr. Chairman. We will evaluate in two years' time, so we can give an idea of how the dispute settlement process is going. In the motion, the government is asked not to ask for its own contribution to the arbitration costs for healthcare providers. This arrangement was not made by us. The settlement, the settlement of disputes, has been agreed between the parties themselves. Those parties themselves have also agreed in good consultation on the allocation of costs. The concession scheme has been agreed to ensure affordability. The parties themselves have agreed to try to resolve any disputes between themselves first, or with mediation; that is cheaper than an arbitration procedure. I didn't make the rules. I therefore do not see any role for myself in determining what funding should look like. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u4	I fully understand the Minister, who says: the parties themselves have set the rules. I'm just wondering this. Suppose there's a small party, a little caretaker who doesn't have any money. Is there still a possibility, by means of a hardness clause, of getting into a concession scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u5	Because the parties themselves have agreed to go to mediation first, such a small party immediately gets at no cost hearing the problem. All kinds of dispute committees have arisen in the country. They themselves agreed to this by mutual agreement. So I didn't play any part in that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u6	The right conversation seems to me to be the step to restore the connection. I think that's reassuring. Imagine if you couldn't get out. Who can turn to such a small caretaker if mediation doesn't help? And again, mediation is a really important first step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u7	A very important and cheap step. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's You shouldn't judge or stand against each other if you don't have to. If there's really no other way, there's a procedure. It is decorated by the parties themselves. I didn't have any involvement in that. There isn't one dispute committee either. The Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act has also led to various dispute committees. They make parties themselves. They make agreements about how they do things. What we agreed at this dispute committee is that after two years we will evaluate whether it is a threshold and whether the agreements are good. Parties can also adjust themselves in the meantime if they think it is not working properly. Now that that has to start and they have just made the rules themselves, I wouldn't think it would be a good time to go into that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u8	Mrs. Leijten. No, Mrs. Bouwmeester. You've asked a question twice. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u9	This dispute resolution has indeed been brought about by pressure from politics. There is a imbalance between the health insurance companies who conclude the contracts and decide how much money is against them, and the healthcare providers who are actually out of a position if they do not get a contract. I said, it's good that it came. The Minister has also said that it is a good thing that it has come. She has said several times in debates that this is a good instrument. What strikes me is that there is indeed another barrier being created. Could the Minister perhaps say that she thinks that the smallest parties, who can feel this imbalance the most, should not have that threshold? A statement by this minister as authority and ultimately the head of care would be important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u10	The landlord.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u11	You'd want it sometimes. What matters to me is that such a dispute committee is not a nose wash, so it is being used. If bumps are raised that do not make use of them, it has failed. Sometimes you can say: oh, how bad; there will be so many things, so it will not be right. I'm thinking, if there's going to be so many cases, you didn't set it up for nothing. It is important for the parties to be able to find their way. I hope, however, that the parties who find their way to it will be able to solve many cases with mediation. I will also explicitly ask for this in the evaluation. It would be my greatest success if we in mediation were to solve almost everything. This Disputes Committee can only work if it is used by parties who wish to make use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u12	You're sticking to the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u13	I maintain the view that I want to start off first in order to be able to judge whether it has created unjustified bumps on its own. I'd like to point out that you pay if you lose. So if a small health care provider is in his right, he doesn't have to pay anything, because then the health care provider pays.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u14	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u15	That's when there's a result. To participate in the dispute resolution you do have to pay in advance. That's where the crux is. I agree with the Minister: it would be best if the field were to come out and if it could go through mediation. That's good to eliminate the imbalance. Let us above all have a lot of things, because then we will learn from them. But where can a party that does not pass through the mediation and that cannot turn to the dispute resolution because of the financial thresholds, which means that it is no longer part of the evaluation? Can they report to the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u16	At least they'll have to report to the NZa. Then the NZa can keep up with that and we can take it with us in the evaluation. But the costs are €3,500 for the healthcare provider. For amounts from €3,500 to €10,000 it goes to the insurer. So we are talking about €3,500. That does not seem insurmountable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-33.u17	I propose that next Tuesday we vote on the motion.
