ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u1	Mr. Chairman. We look forward to this debate with the Secretary of State, but we would have liked to have had it with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. We are, of course, justifying his absence and hope that this is not about too serious matters. I had prepared a number of specific questions for the Minister concerning his letter of 25 November on purchasing power developments. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to answer a number of questions in this area on behalf of the cabinet. Today we are discussing several legislative proposals that regulate the tax regime for 2017. We also look back at the policy of this cabinet of the Labour Party and the VVD. Taxes are first of all there to enable the government to finance important social services, such as education, health care, safety, social security, etc. In doing so, we assume that the tax contribution of companies and citizens is sound, proportionate and reasonable. In addition, we use taxes to avoid vulnerable groups and to promote socially desirable activities and socially desirable behaviour. In this light, it is distressing and embarrassing that the cabinet closes its reign with a third place on the tax havens list. Yet this is now happening with the research of Oxfam Novib, in which the Netherlands ends as the third tax haven in the world, after Bermuda and the Cayman Islands. This tax avoidance is at the expense of third world countries, among others. I would like to comment on this later. In addition, purchasing power and simplification are key themes in the 2017 Tax Plan. There is also a proposal on charging stations for electric cars. In particular, I have a number of questions for the cabinet about purchasing power and electric cars. First, I have some questions about income policy. In the context of the General Financial Reviews, on behalf of my group, I have questioned the development of income under this cabinet. After all, it was intended to become fairer. That was one of the main goals of the Labour Party and its new leader, Minister Asscher, who unfortunately cannot be present today. Transfer by the Central Planning Bureau confirmed the uneven income development. Lower incomes to 175% of the minimum wage improved by 4.3%, the highest incomes above 500% minimum wage 7.2%, and beneficiaries 3.8% compared to workers 9.1%. The 2016 Tax Package, with a tax relief of 5 billion, has further increased inequalities between workers and non-working people. The ginicoefficient shows an increase in inequality through this 5 billion package. The highest incomes also benefited from relief in this package, whereas they do not need it at all. The cabinet also shows that. These incomes already have sufficient income growth due to, among other things, autonomous wage developments and low mortgage interest rates. As a percentage, income trends are uneven and much stronger in hard euros. The people with an income up to 175% minimum wage received €830, the group with an income up to 350% minimum wage over €2,500 and the group with an income above 500% minimum wage over €5,300. Nevertheless, in his letter of 25 November, the Minister for Social Affairs wrote: "The income policy has reduced income inequality in the cabinet period." Yes, you might say that when you only look at the workers and leave the beneficiaries and pensioners out of the picture. But even then, as we can read in response to questions from the SP on page 24 in the note following the report, it turns out that the first quartile population is the lowest income groups; it is a mixed group with among others benefit recipients, pensioners and lowest income recipients who have only improved 0.9% thanks to the policy of the Rutte II cabinet. At higher incomes, the third quarter improved 2.9% and the fourth quarter 1.9%. In short, government policy itself has clearly given higher income groups more purchasing power than the lowest income group. I would like an explanation from the Secretary of State. We see some light between his response to income trends and the letter from the Minister for Social Affairs. According to the purchasing power figures in Minister Asscher's letter of 25 November, benefit recipients improved 2% between 2012 and 2017, 0.1% of which by government policy. Workers improved 7.9%, of which more than 3% due to government policy. In short, income inequality between workers and beneficiaries has been considerably increased. Pensioners have fallen by an average of 0.6% over this period, of which about 0.4% due to government policy. Moreover, it is good to say that the low-income pensioners have made some progress, i.e. 2.1%. Nevertheless, the question remains: how can Minister Asscher claim with these figures that government policy has reduced income inequality? I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State on behalf of the cabinet. My group also wonders why, with the 2017 Tax Plan, the cabinet has not done more for the lower incomes, which have deteriorated, as can be seen from the tax developments so far. In the House of Representatives GroenLinks, together with the Socialist Party, tabled an amendment to increase the elderly discount and the general tax discount, which would benefit the lowest incomes. This would also remove the burden relief from the 5 billion higher income package, which we believe is wrongly given and not necessary, in favour of low incomes, including the benefit recipients and the elderly. With the 2017 Tax Plan, why did the Cabinet not choose to correct the increased inequality, but it is in itself neat, but it only applies to this year's GDP increase of more or less the same purchasing power of all income groups, both workers and benefit recipients as well as older people? In short, why didn't the cabinet correct this year what broke up in previous years? Minister Asscher also says that ensuring balanced and activating income development is one of the key objectives of this cabinet's socio-economic policy. We would like to hear from the cabinet how balanced it is to consciously widen the gap between workers and benefit recipients. That is what this cabinet does until 2016, as it itself writes in its own letters to the Chamber. We would like to hear a reaction from the cabinet. The cabinet motivates this by stating that this has increased the incentive to start working on a benefit basis and is therefore good for the employment rate. But what is the story of the cabinet for all those people in a benefit who want to work but not find a job, for the unemployed 50-plussers, for the young, especially those with an ethnic background, and for women in lower paid jobs who are on the streets, such as in home care? What does this stimulus contribute to the situation of this group of people, who are still on the sidelines and find a very difficult job? I had a number of more technical questions about the letter from the Minister for Social Affairs. He shows, among other things with the MIMOSI model, that inequality has indeed been reduced in this cabinet period. I'll leave those questions out of it. However, I ask the Minister why the cabinet is doing so little about the prediction made by the CPB in the Macro Economic Recognition 2017 that, as a result of the changes in the policy that have already been made, the gini coefficient will increase by as much as 2.9% after 2021. In short, inequality will gradually increase year by year thanks to the policies deployed, to as much as 2.9% in 2021. I'd like to get a reaction to that. I would now like to ask a number of questions about tax avoidance. I've been referring to it for a while. The cabinet says it will tackle tax avoidance, but in reality the Netherlands is a country that is constantly on hold when it is discussed at European or international level. Indeed, the Dutch Presidency has produced a deal, but it is modest. In the meantime, the Netherlands, through Minister Dijsselbloem, has again put a brake on tackling the "hybrid mismatches," the abuse of the differences between tax systems, by demanding that the only Member State be delayed. Overall, the Netherlands likes to stick to its own advantages of its attractive fiscal environment. The fact that the Netherlands is in place three is on the list of tax havens in the world, speaks volumes in that respect. So we're very bad on it internationally, but action...hoo! A mismatch in this hybrid cabinet? Recent research by the GroenLinks Group in the European Parliament showed a new example: the company Zara also likes to use the attractive fiscal environment in our country through a subsidiary in the Netherlands. Starbucks still pays far less taxes than the coffee shop on the corner. The European Commission has therefore referred to this as "state aid," but there is still a procedure in place. Third world countries therefore miss large amounts of tax due to all these smart tax constructions of companies. Worldwide, the amount involved has now risen to around EUR 100 billion. We find this indigestible, unsolidar and contradictory with policies to strengthen the economies of poorer countries. The Secretary of State has spoken firmly about the empty letterbox companies in the Netherlands. He thought they should disappear from the street. But what does the Secretary of State do about it? In total, even in the Netherlands, there is a huge tax avoidance via these constructions. In this way, about 4,000 billion flows through the Netherlands. The cabinet says: we are going to tackle this through a multilateral instrument (MLI) in the OECD context. But there are hardly any agreements and actions yet. The Secretary of State even wrote that the MLI is mainly the implementation of existing treaty policies. However, it is precisely within this existing Treaty policy that the empty letterbox companies have completely gotten out of hand. My GroenLinks colleagues in the House of Representatives did not want to wait any longer and together with the Labour Party in the House of Representatives have tabled a motion asking for firm substance requirements, which we can impose on companies in the Netherlands and which legally lay down that there must be a real economic activity that is proportionate to the size of the company, read the turnover. Unfortunately, the cabinet has denied this motion. My question to the Secretary of State is: didn't you want those empty letterbox companies out of the street? I ask him: why didn't you take a step and why didn't you embrace this motion? There was no majority for the motion. To our surprise, the D66 Group also voted against. The motion was therefore rejected. For now, we are waiting for further steps. Surely it can't be that, after such a firm statement, little happens? I ask the Secretary of State, what will be your actions? In addition to the construction of the empty letterbox companies, we have a whole set of other constructions that facilitate tax avoidance in all possible ways. For example, companies have huge deductions through the innovation box, a total of 1.6 billion. But it is extremely poorly defined what "innovation" is. It is very easy to obtain tax rebates in this way. The OECD is therefore already talking about the so-called nexus breach, which should limit this tax reduction. However, a company can still count the cost of innovation by a factor of 1.3, a bonus of 30%. My group is wondering why we are actually keeping this generous arrangement alive. Research by the CPB has shown that every euro we miss in tax revenue through this construction, but €0.54 in R&D expenditures, that seems to me to be just a loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u2	I would like to hear from Mrs Vos how she appreciates the measures under consideration regarding the innovation box in the tax package before us in the context of her statement just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u3	We know that there is now a proposal that should ultimately lead to a savings of 160 million on the innovation box. That is a step in itself, but it is a very modest step if you sell it against the total size of the innovation box, which will ultimately give us some 1.6 billion in tax revenue. In my group's view, what this yields is not proportionate to what it costs us in terms of tax revenue. We think that we could spend the money in a much better way than through the innovation box. Why, so I ask the Secretary of State, aren't we gonna stop handing out that bonus at all? You'll be able to count the cost of innovation by a factor of 1.3. That's a 30% bonus. Is the Secretary of State not prepared to at least delete that bonus and say: you can only cut whatever you spend? The Secretary of State wants to use the search and development tickets more firmly. In what way does he think that this will help to prevent improper use of the innovation box? My group also notes that we are still very friendly to expats. They do not have to pay taxes on 30% of their income if they have a scarce talent and earn above average, because they need that money for living in the Netherlands. It seems to us that they can afford that easily. The Court of Auditors has also asked questions about the effectiveness of this measure. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to this provision. Finally, I would like to focus on the issue of greening. The cabinet seems to say: well, the greening of taxes has been completed; we already do a lot in the Netherlands. In fact, however, little has happened since the 1990s, while the environmental problems are really crying out for strong financial incentives that tax and reward pollution cleanly. The advance of cleaner cars has been slowed down with last year's Car Letter. My group did not agree with that. We anticipated that the new policy would in fact lead to less CO reductions than existing policies. We did not think that could be explained in view of the climate problem. A bright spot is the steps on charging stations for electric cars, thanks to a motion by D66 and GroenLinks in the Lower House. It is good that the energy tax on electricity is reduced through the public loading posts, so that it no longer constitutes an obstacle, but we would also like to see a reduced tax rate for home loading. Abuse can be avoided by limiting this rate to a maximum of kWh. Does the Secretary of State want to respond to this? The Radar television programme recently revealed that operators of charging stations charge different starting rates for their electricity. These range from €0.12 to €2. That's a big deal. The prices you have to pay for the electricity supplied can also vary enormously, from €0.20 to more than €1 per kWh. This is very unfortunate for consumers, because they do not know in advance what they are doing when they use a certain loading post. This can also eventually discourage the use of these charging posts and the increase in electric traffic, because it is extremely confusing and you just don't know what you're up to. Is the Secretary of State prepared to arrange for users of charging stations to be familiar with the start-up rate and the electricity tariff in advance? We would therefore like to see greater transparency on this point. I also ask the Secretary of State to respond to Carlo van de Weijer's proposal from TU Eindhoven for a temporary purchase subsidy for second-hand electric cars. Many electric cars are used as leasing cars in the Netherlands, but disappear after the lease contracts have been concluded abroad, while they are still in good condition. This also eliminates the environmental gain, which in fact has been paid with Dutch tax money. TU Eindhoven therefore proposes to retain these cars for the Dutch market by introducing a purchase subsidy for a second-hand electric car from the leasing market. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u4	I don't quite understand that subsidy for second-hand electric cars. We have seen a lot of electric cars coming by in the field of subsidies. If I understand correctly, those electric cars have a huge environmental advantage. Let's just assume that's true. What difference does it make if the car is in the Netherlands or abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u5	If I were you, I would think: that electric car was originally purchased with Dutch tax money, so it would be nice if we could retain the profits we are making in the Netherlands. We ourselves must meet our climate objectives and our air pollution objectives. We still suffer from excessive air pollution in large cities. I would therefore like to see this environmental gain retained for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u6	So it's just about accounting, because for the climate it doesn't matter at all. It's just about accounting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u7	No, it is about that we in the Netherlands consider it important to stimulate electric car traffic, because of the climate but also because of the air quality. And we have a lot of problems with that in the Netherlands. So let us make sure that we solve some of those problems with the help of the electric car.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u8	I do not fully understand the answer you have just given to Mr Van Strien, certainly not in the light of the Autoletter II, which we have also dealt with in this Chamber. There is no doubt that the tax subsidy of the electric car or of hybrid plug-ins has undesirable road leak effects. Among other things, it showed that car manufacturers were going to make special cars for the Dutch market while letting the dirtier cars drive around elsewhere in Europe. That is the so-called waterbed effect. So I go very far with the argument of cleaner environments and cleaner cars, but it is really very naive to think that it should stop at the border. The sale of electric cars elsewhere in Europe cannot be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u9	No, of course not. I also fully agree with you that this does not end at the border. However, this is a specific measure. In the Netherlands, we have, more than in other countries, a policy that stimulates the use of electric cars. I'll share that with you. We have many electric cars through the leasing market on our roads, which have a good effect on, for example, air quality. I regret that once the lease contract is over, these cars are going to go abroad massively. I'd say try to keep those cars in the Netherlands. We can still take good advantage of the benefits for air quality and climate that this brings. That's my proposal. In any case, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he sees anything in this or whether he thinks it is a nonsensical measure. I assume I'm about to hear a clear answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u10	Just a little longer. You've learned so much about this. Every time it comes to this issue, this really turns out to be a point of GroenLinks. Then I think it's a little too easy to leave this with the Secretary of State. I am simply asking you: how would you arrange for these electric cars to stay in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u11	That's what I just said to you. You could introduce a purchase subsidy for a used full electric car. It must be temporary, because it is, of course, also a measure with which you must be extremely cautious. That must therefore be done for a temporary period, as long as so many of those leasing cars disappear quite massively abroad. That is the measure I am proposing. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he sees anything in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u12	I'll come back to this brilliant proposition. What if the owner of this used car is going to sell it again? Does it have to be funded again? Does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance keep records of this? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u13	The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is not going to do that anyway. These are important implementation issues, which, of course, you need to think carefully about. I agree with you that we should not have an endless sales circuit, which means that everyone is constantly putting subsidies in their pockets. In any case, I do not think that this is desirable; I am happy to agree with you on that. Of course, we shouldn't do it that way. It must really be a subsidy that contributes something substantial, namely that the car does not go abroad but stays in the Netherlands. I am extremely interested in the answer. Large electricity consumers still pay an idioticly low electricity tax rate, i.e. 1/200 of the consumer tariff. Why not encourage the large companies, which also do not comply with the energy savings agreements that have now been made in the energy agreement, to invest more in energy saving? Raise the large consumer charge slightly and say: you can keep that money yourself, but you have to put it into energy saving. Why is the cabinet not prepared to think about this? Would the Secretary of State still consider taking a first step in that direction? We also see that the sustainability and energy savings of the existing housing stock are extremely slow, while there is, of course, a huge profit to be made. I have also quoted this example in the General Financial Reviews. This is of great importance for both the climate and the environment, as well as for the wallet of the inhabitants, because this really leads to a reduction in the burden. Of course, it is also important for employment and economic activities in the construction and installation sectors. Would the cabinet be prepared to reduce the landlord's tax on housing corporations in exchange for investments in sustainability and energy saving in social housing? Then I come to the food agenda, but maybe it's a long way away from the Secretary of State. We find it interesting that this cabinet has a food agenda, because it believes that fewer animal proteins should be produced and consumed and that we should go more towards plant nutrition. That's great. But the instruments to get anything going in this transition are really lacking. Is it not worth considering adding fiscal instruments to this agenda, such as differentiation in the VAT rate or levies on the production and use of animal proteins? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Finally, I would like to add my voice to Mr Backer's nice question on the blue envelope. It is indeed going to disappear, but the VVD Group, the own group of the Secretary of State, has requested that the blue envelope be retained. How does the Secretary of State look at that now? We are waiting with interest for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. The last Tax Plan of a missionary cabinet invites us to take stock of the tax balance over the past few years. This balance is not particularly positive for the Christian Union Group. Upon his arrival, the Secretary of State spoke of cleaning up the tax attic. He's gotten himself energetic, and he's gotten his kicks kicked out of it. We were allowed to observe that in this house. But it wasn't allowed to come from a hell of a cleanup. It seems that the tax tidying up is limited to moving boxes from one corner to the other corner of the attic. The Netherlands was in desperate need of tax remodeling, but the reform of the system did not come, despite a strong boost of 5 billion. My group deeply regrets that. But there's more business. The abolition of the VAR and the introduction of the ill-thought-out Law DBA led to great unrest and uncertainty among the army of one millionzzp'ers, after all, vision was lacking. The much-needed policy development is now being transferred to a new cabinet. There is also too little progress in the dossier on the capital levy on fictitious returns. This is a thorn in the eye for many benevolent taxpayers and diligent savers. At the present rate of savings, a saver soon pays more capital efficiency tax than he or she makes in return. And we are not talking about large assets, but about €50,000 in savings for an individual at the current average savings rate of 0.45%; a savings rate that is also below current inflation. The marginal pressure I come here to talk about this takes extreme forms, especially in the case of a earner. The reorganisation of the Tax Administration has got out of hand in terms of costs and also leads to perverse harm effects. What makes fiscal policy so tough? Why do we manage in other cabinet files? I refer to the increase in the AOW age, long-term care and housing market. Why can't we do it there and why can't we do it here? What are the lessons that the Secretary of State himself, looking back, has drawn? Last year around this time, we had a heated discussion with the Secretary of State on the 5 billion reduction of charges, which was intended as a lubricant for the system review. This revision has not been carried out, and that was undoubtedly a bitter disappointment for the Secretary of State himself; "a missed opportunity" in his own words. However, we believe that the unbalanced burden reduction continued and would support the economic recovery and create 35,000 jobs. The Secretary of State will remember that. However, this reduction was probably not necessary for this purpose. The CPB's draft and December estimates of this morning confirm that. It seems obvious to me that the reduction of the burden was and is necessary in order not to increase the collective burden, but of course not without a system review. Fortunately, in the years to come, there seems to be room for a substantial tax review, but looking back, this 5 billion relief still does not deserve the price of beauty. I assume the Secretary of State still thinks so, too. There is a new poverty trap in the Netherlands and now not so much between people with benefits and workers, but between people with a statutory minimum wage and people with a moderate wage. The marginal pressure has assumed unheard-of proportions here, especially in the case of earners. Calculations made by the Secretary of State itself show that for a single-earner family with two children in a rental home, a gross income increase of €10,000, for example from €22,000 to €32,000, leaves only €355 below the line this year. Let me take this into account: this is a tax burden of 96.5%. And for a family with an income path of €27,000 to €32,000, an income increase of €5,000, even €57 goes down. That is unjust and inexplicable. Mr Van Rij has already mentioned this. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State on this. My prediction is that the Secretary of State will do this in his reply by stating that the income policy pursued has been positive in many respects, that the fall in unemployment, the fall in entry and the fall in part-time work have developed favourably and that this is only a small group. But, as my group opposes, it affects a much larger group. For all single-earners, the marginal pressure in the income path from statutory minimum wage to modal has increased from 60% to over 70% in this cabinet period. And if this involves the phasing out of the various surcharges, then the pressure gets even higher. The result of reducing the poverty trap around an income of €20,000 is that marginal pressure is increased elsewhere. How does the Secretary of State assess this marginal pressure for earners on the basis of his principle of justice? I am sure Mr Schalk will be discussing this in a moment when it comes to the elaboration of the research into the implementation of his motion. Getting to work has clearly been made fiscally more attractive by this cabinet, especially for the non-earning partner. But going to work more and earning a little more are matters that have been made less and sometimes even less attractive by this cabinet. I'm not talking about high-income people, I'm talking about low-income people. Surely that's very harsh when you have an income somewhere between legal minimum wage and morale? The Secretary of State knows that my group criticised his policy last year for this one-sided labour participation motive. But has not the way in which the labour market participation perspective itself has been applied been too one-sided? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The Christian Union Group must observe that the principle of standing has been violated in this cabinet period. I put my finger on the very unbalanced marginal pressure between different groups with an equal gross income. If you make the comparison at the level of an equal household income, the differences between one earner and two earners can rise to a factor of six. Here too, justice is lost. The CPB standard purchasing power calculations for 2017 show that with an equal household income of one and a half modes, the disposable income of a single earner is about €8,300 lower than that of two-child earners. The biggest difference arises from the difference in tax rebates and hardly from the difference in taxes and premiums. This shows that the tax reductions have become increasingly decisive for the tax burden compared to the old progressive disc rates. How does the Secretary of State assess this development? Hasn't the cabinet gone crazy in endless turning of camouflaged tax discount buttons, rather than simply increasing or lowering the disk rates? Carrying power has always been a pillar of our tax system. This pillar is now in danger of sinking into a forest of fiscal regimes that are uneven. Leo Stevens, the Eminence Grise of Taxation, has devoted considerable consideration to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u15	I can support Mr Ester's speech for a good part, but I also have a question. I would like to hear from him what he thinks of the German system of division in order to resolve the problems of the single earner and the two earner in a just way. Is that something he ever thinks about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u16	Yeah, I think about that. It would be a very good line to reflect on that. I would like this to be part of the investigation promised by Minister Asscher and the Secretary of State for the involvement of this kind of international perspective. Thank you for this suggestion. I hope the cabinet takes over. I talked about Leo Stevens and called him the Eminence Grise of Taxation. He even speaks of a tax system that leads to polarisation and unfaithfulness and that runs counter to the principle of capacity. Our tax system does not bind in that sense, it divides. How does the Secretary of State assess this analysis? I know that the cabinet does not want much of comparisons at household income level when it comes to taxation. This also came to light in the somewhat bite reaction to my written contribution. As if the cabinet says: how dare you approach a family as a common household instead of an accidental sum of individuals. At the same time, the cabinet has to be reluctant to admit that today's individualised taxation is anything but individual. Tax rebates are, after all, transferable from the least-earning to the most-earning partner, in addition to the general tax rebate, which in 2017 is only 40% transferable in order not to mention the allocation of income from the home, a significant interest, deductions and property income. In short, consistency is far from being achieved. While the portability of the general tax rebate is completely reduced due to labour participation and emancipatory purposes, the cabinet has increased the labour discount and income-dependent combination discount in the previous Tax Plan so enormously that many least-earning partners cannot fully redeem all these tax rebates. Now, very emancipated, they lean on the shoulders of their most deserving partner. The cabinet should find that strange, given the objective of participation. It does not promote participation in the labour market, nor does it needlessly increase the income gap between one and two earners. If you do not want the portability of one tax discount, why do you want the portability of the other tax discount? You'd think, too, I'd shoot in election mode for a moment that VVD, PvdA and D66 would applaud on such a proposal. Remarkably, however, they voted on the other side against the amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Schouten, which proposed to delete the portability of the labour discount and income-dependent combination discount in exchange for a lower rate in the second disc. Fortunately, the Secretary of State is taking the proposal with him to prepare the next Tax Plan. I hope that he will repeat and confirm in this debate today that he is taking this issue seriously. I like to hear it. It is not so difficult to add some consistency and justice to the tax system, is it? The Secretary of State insists that it is so difficult to balance the distribution of marginal pressure. It would always cost money, because lowering tax rebates and surcharges is deleveling, which is not allowed by the PvdA, while extending phasing-out routes costs more money, which is not allowed by the VVD. But was it really so difficult to increase the maximum working discount less extreme and to set the phasing-out point at a higher income? Was it really so complicated to extend the phasing-out path in the rent payment slightly and to make it less extreme? And could the cabinet really not have done anything about the huge canyon in the €36.000 discount, which the 50-PLUS colleague mentioned? Couldn't the cabinet have done anything about that? Now I do not even mention the substantial increase in the income-dependent combination discount. He could have done less for us, knowing that the cabinet had had the employment rate glasses on last year. By the way, these glasses dropped off the cabinet again this year. This year, the cabinet has taken a purchasing power glasses with the optician. This, just as cheerful as last year's reduction in working hours, is partly reduced in this Tax Plan. Speaking of consistency. Two weeks ago, a thorough report by the General Court of Auditors on the tax administration's enforcement policy was published. One of the conclusions is that the Tax Administration has a limited understanding of the costs and benefits of enforcement instruments, which makes it difficult to justify choices in enforcement policy. There is also little insight into the size of the tax gap, or the extent of missed tax revenues. The Court makes a number of recommendations. Many of them are taken over by the Secretary of State. However, it is not clear to my group what route all this will take to the Broad Agenda and the Investment Agenda of the Tax Administration. Can the Secretary of State clarify this consistency and consistency? The Court recommends that enforcement policy be more targeted at business. There are significant compliance deficits. In this way, the treasury will lose a few billion dollars in taxes. The Secretary of State's reasoning not to follow this recommendation is remarkably cumbersome and unconvincing. In view of the importance of a broad shared tax morale, it seems to my group to be a bad thing not to take this recommendation fully. It sends a wrong signal, especially in the direction of private individuals. Can the Secretary of State share with my group the main reasons not to go along with the recommendation of the Court of Auditors? What impact will this have on tax morals in our country and on the simple principle of equal monks, equal hoods? While we are talking about companies and taxation, I am moving to the law 34527, which implements a European directive that increases transparency in rulings by automatically exchanging information on rulings between tax authorities. This is one of the actions to combat tax avoidance resulting from the OECD and G20 BEPS projects. This morning, this project came along. My group considers this to be an important, even very important step. It is clear from the answer to the question of reciprocity in the exchange of information on rulings made by my VVD colleague in the written input that only the European Commission is monitoring compliance and that the Tax Administration has no role in that. This raises the question of how certain we can be that all Member States will be able to deal with this automatic exchange of data in the same way and whether this will ensure reciprocity. The automatic exchange of information on rulings is only one tool in the BEPS project to counter tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. The cabinet also welcomes the other measures resulting from this project. But what is the government's position on further fundamental measures regarding the taxation of profits, as suggested, for example, in the interesting report of the Working Party on Taxation drawn up by, among other things, the State Secretary's own officials, for the purposes of the Study Group on Sustainable Growth? How does the Secretary of State view the proposals mentioned in this report for broadening the tax base in exchange for a lower statutory rate? And how does he assess these proposals in relation to the problem of tax avoidance? Just a word about start-ups. My group welcomes the fiscal measures to help start-ups in their difficult first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u17	I have another question to ask in response to Mr Ester's question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u18	You're using me to ask a question to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u19	No, no, I wanted to clarify what you yourself think of the report on sustainable growth and the proposals made in it for basic broadening. Do you have any ideas about that yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u20	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u21	Should this be done by broadening the basis? Should this lead to a reduction in the Vpb tariff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u22	We think that is an interesting way of thinking, otherwise I would not have asked that question either. We believe that this working group on taxation has made some very interesting proposals, and this is one of them. They're all clustered around this broad-based broadening. To what extent does the Secretary of State go along with this, including in exchange for a lower statutory rate? We think it is worth discussing this very thoroughly, because we see it as an interesting idea, but there are also disadvantages, as we know. What is the Secretary of State's opinion on this? I was talking about start-ups and I said that we welcome the fiscal measures to help start-ups in that difficult first period. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the evaluation of this scheme will also take into account the impact on the growth of innovative start-ups in our country and its contribution to the further development of a booming start-up economy? I'm rounding up. This cabinet has reformed a lot: the AOW, the care and the housing market, but unfortunately not the tax system. I started my contribution with that. And that is more than a pity, given the principle of carrying capacity that is under pressure, the large gaps that this tax system covers and the complexity of the system. As far as my group is concerned, this is one of the first issues to be addressed by a new cabinet. The Christian Union is keen to create a tax system that is fairer and simpler than the current system and can last for at least ten years. A sustainable and well-thought-out system that bridges and closes gaps between young people and the elderly, between employees,zzp'ers and other entrepreneurs, between tenants and homeowners, and last but not least between one and two earners. I look forward to the answers to my group's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u23	Madam President. I thought: I'm going to do it completely differently this afternoon and I'm going to start congratulating the Secretary of State or actually the Cabinet. Today, when the Tax Plan is being dealt with, the CPB comes with wonderful figures: the economic recovery is continuing, unemployment is continuing to decline, and we expect budgetary balance, in short, the crisis is over. Congratulations. I hope the Secretary of State will pass on these congratulations to the cabinet. The biggest contribution to the growth of the economy comes from household consumption, I read in the report. Let's focus on that today in the treatment of the Tax Plan. We shouldn't rest on our laurels right now. We should keep packing. I quote the cabinet when presenting plans in the letter of the Chamber on choices for a better tax system: "a system review without burden relief is not feasible, but a reduction in charges without a corresponding system review is a missed opportunity." These are commendable words, but unfortunately the practice is different. Last year there was a 5 billion relief on offer and this time of 1.1 billion. Both times there was relief but no reform of the system. A missed opportunity, in the words of the cabinet. You could say fun for now, but not for the future. This reform of the system is urgently needed. At the end of this cabinet period, there is already a lot of work to be done in the upcoming elections. Now it is a relevant point to raise. No matter how you turn it, there are huge differences in the tax burden. In my group's view, this is mainly because the cabinet's commitment is not to treat everyone in the same way, but to encourage certain people's behaviour. That's what we call stimuli. But stimulation of one leads to braking of the other. This leads to very strange proportions and even to opposite effects. I'll mention a few. The reduction of the transferable general tax rebate stimulates people to start doing paid work. This has implications for care for children and for the provision of care, but the individual approach requires independent economic units. However, in the rental sector that reasoning is reversed. For example, if you earn €35,000 as a tenant, your rent goes up by 1.5%. But if your eldest son becomes a flex worker and earns just over €4,000 a year, the family income is €39,000 and the rent goes up by 4%. So suddenly it's about the carrying capacity of the family. Suppose it's a one-time extra income from that eldest son, that leads to a permanent rent increase. This removes the incentive to work. What does the Secretary of State think of this situation? Shouldn't that son go to work? Anyway, they're counterproductive stimuli. Let me give you another interesting example. The IACK stimulates to earn more, because this increases the amount of the discount. This is good for individualism and for the economic independence of everyone. Okay, that's what I'm saying. On the other hand, there is a case that I have already discussed during the General Political Reviews and the General Financial Reviews. If you earn €22,000 about the minimum wage for a 22-year-old person and you know how to raise your income to €32,000, you're left with that €10,000 gross but €355, so €1 per day. Get rid of stimuli. This is also a violation of the government's own policy in the field of employment participation. How come you've got that very opposite move? In fact, the answer is very simple. In fact, a tax monstrosity has been developed by shifting increases and deductions and by using them as incentives. With each measure, a specific group will be trapped. A solution is then devised, but the only effect is that there will be a bottleneck in another place. In the last example I have mentioned, the measures have led to the loss of poverty among the people entering the labour market. If you didn't earn anything and took a small job, you'd end up in the poverty trap. That is why we have come up with something that puts the marginal pressure in another place, precisely for those who are already in a very difficult situation, namely those who have to live on a minimum income. I think it is clear in this Chamber too that something very strange is going on here. I noticed that Mr Van de Ven said that the VVD Group considers that a balanced income ratio of eminent importance for a fairer tax system for all citizens, without discrimination according to age or circumstances. At the end of his speech, Mr Backer said, in reply to my question, that he actually thinks it is very good that such an investigation should be carried out, without prejudging its results. But it stands out. Others have also said it, Mr Van Rij and Mr Ester. We don't understand this anymore. Is this the social policy that the cabinet has intended? Isn't there really something to think of that puts the pressure on the stronger shoulders? Does the Secretary of State agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that the system is now working unfairly? Isn't it time to put in a real innovation? Think of the life-form neutral system. This was introduced a few years ago by a special combination in the House of Representatives, namely by Mr Koolmees van D66 and Mr Dijkgraaf van de SGP. It is precisely when such combinations occur and are to be formed that the cabinet should bite at it, you would think. One could also think of the divisional system that has just been mentioned. Mr Van Rooijen asked for it as it is applied in Germany, with regard to the SGP, preferably in conjunction with a social flat tax. This offers opportunities for achieving a fairer tax burden. This would also address the harrowing position of a earner. Last year, in a motion for a resolution, I called on the cabinet to take measures to reduce the substantial differences in the tax burden because the earners pay up to five times more tax than the two-earners. Today we see that the tax plans have so far led to an ever-deepening gap. In the same calculation example last year, the single earner will pay six times as much tax. This is all due to the accumulation of taxes, surcharges and deductions. Mr. Ester also pointed out it. How does the Secretary of State judge this? It's obvious. The current cabinet period has not provided any comfort for the single earner. In the meantime, however, it has become clear that there is something fundamentally wrong, not only with a single earner, but also with single and two-earners. I refer to the mentioned problem of the €10,000 net yielding only €355. This led to broad support for my motion in the latest General Political Reviews. I am pleased that the cabinet, which advised against this motion, has been working on it this time anyway. There's gonna be an investigation by SZW. During the General Financial Reviews, the Secretary of State promised that there would be a letter for the treatment of the Tax Plan, with the research question, the research design and the policy options. We received that letter yesterday. Thank you for that. I have a few more questions, first of all about the research design. There is a clear list of the aspects involved in taxation. In addition, other income-related schemes, such as the supplementary scholarship, and the own contributions Wmo and Wlz are included. It is very good that they are now being mapped out. Does the Secretary of State agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that such income-related schemes can have a significant impact on marginal pressures? The research design also mentions the IACK, but in the research questions I no longer see it. Is that even part of the investigation? That seems to me to be extremely important. One more question about the policy options. The starting point is budget neutrality, but how is it prevented that the policy options only shift the problem? The aim is to be able to offer the study to both chambers before 15 March. However, there is already a commitment from the Secretary of State that the investigation should be there. Will the Minister confirm that commitment? I would like to touch on two other minor issues. With regard to the temporary reduced rate of charges with self-connection, I would like to add my voice briefly to Mr Van Rij's questions on this subject. Last year the fictitious rate of return was discussed in detail. Everyone knows that small savers don't get high interest rates for their savings. The 4% that is being used is absurd, especially for savers who do not want to invest. The adjustment for a lower return below €100,000 and an increase above €100,000 seems nice, but is also not real. My group looks forward to a real rate of return. How does the Secretary of State view this? The focus of my speech was on a fair tax system. I look forward to replying to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u24	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the last tax plan of the Rutte II cabinet. So, as with the General Financial Reviews, except for the year 2017, it is time to look back on the past four years. We are then looking back at a period of considerable burdens and growing complexity of the system. As far as the burden increases are concerned, I have noticed that neither the Lower House nor the other parties have discussed that part of the Netherlands that has been hardest hit by the tax measures of this cabinet in recent years. The PVV continues to mention that problem, as well as other serious problems. I am referring to the increases in excise duties and VAT in the last period. The increases in excise duty and VAT during this cabinet period have led to the closure of many petrol pumps throughout the border region. The difference in the price of motor fuels between the Netherlands on the one hand and Germany and Belgium on the other was virtually zero at the beginning of this period, but now, at the end of Rutte II, for ordinary petrol is about €0.30 per litre. Not only the petrol pumps, but also the middle class that is in the vicinity of these petrol pumps, leads a soul-blowing existence, thanks to this cabinet. This cabinet will probably open an extra bottle of champagne from the bubbletak. In the border region, however, they still have nothing to celebrate. They really have to wait until the March elections before they can get to the champagne. With regard to the increased complexity of the tax system, we can say that it has been lacking in the fact that a surcharge has been introduced to facilitate the hiring of an expert to guide you into the supplement forest. Despite the automation and pre-filled questionnaire of the Tax Administration, it remains for a far too small category of taxpayers to make their own tax returns. My question in this context is therefore whether the Secretary of State does not think that the criterion for simplification should be that 95% or such a percentage of taxpayers themselves should be able to make their own declarations. I am talking about both individuals and small self-employed people. I already see the Secretary of State referring to the Tax Simplification Act 2017, but that law sounds to me like a smoker who, in order to get rid of his addiction, is going to buy an extra pack of cigarettes, which smokes completely empty, and then says that there are at least fewer cigarettes in the world now. That we have in box 1 different disks with associated rates, so higher incomes pay more tax than low, is generally considered reasonable. That, because the rates are actually too high, then you introduce all kinds of deductions and no less than seven different tax reductions, is actually already a licence of inability. But the fact that you then also make the tax rebates dependent on income again, as this cabinet has done, is actually too bizarre for words. They are constant corrections to corrections, in an attempt to disguise the fact that you impose too much tax. On 25 November, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment sent a Noteback to income policy and purchasing power 2012-2017 to the House of Representatives. A nice overview, but a few comments seem appropriate to me. I shall start with the title, which covers the content. 2016 isn't over yet and I think 2017 needs to start. Satisfied looking back on years ahead of us will certainly be a socialist trick, because sober people don't know how to do that. It's obvious. The Minister needs his own cheer stories about 2017 to compensate for the cabinet period that we can really look back on, and which looks anything but beautiful. There is also an important aspect missing: the comparison with the neighbouring countries. The summary of this note notes with satisfaction that nearly 80% of households have progressed, while at the start of this cabinet period 46% of households were expected to make progress. I don't know who was expecting that 46%. I think it is quite a bizarre percentage, but that aside. In addition, wonderful statistics will be displayed for the period 2012-2017. In the General Financial Reviews, I have already indicated that, from the outbreak of the credit crisis in 2008 to 2012, household consumption in our country decreased by 4.4%. During the same period, consumption in Belgium grew by 3.2% and in Germany by 4.3%. In the following period from 2012 to 2015 I have to make a comment here: OECD and Eurostat statistics are not so brilliant that they are about periods that have not yet ended, let alone have statistics on periods that are yet to come. Belgian and German incomes increased by 5.4% and 7.8% respectively during the same period. In absolute terms, too, we are increasingly lagging behind our neighbours. I am not even talking about non-EU member Norway where in that period real disposable household income increased by as much as 12.6%. When we look at the elderly, the summary says and I quote: for pensioners, the purchasing power picture is diverse. That is official language for: for pensioners, it looked downright miserable. In general, the purchasing power of pensioners has fallen. This is due not only to fiscal measures, but also to a combination of fiscal and other measures. I am thinking here of the dismantling of the pension system, the further increase in the AOW age and the abolition of pre-pension schemes, so that many former military officers, former police officers and former firefighters who were forced to pre-retirement or not are now being pushed across the poverty line. Finally, one of the most important non-fiscal tricks is the design to flood pension funds in order to reduce pensions. This is done while from 2008 the assets of pension funds and insurers grew by over EUR 615 billion to EUR 1,700 billion. That's 1.7 trillion euros! Last year, the PVV, like several other parties, indicated that the principle of capital gain in income tax is gradually being lost. It is mainly the middle incomes that are the victims. They have been discussed several times today. In general, you can say that the difference between moderate wage and minimum wage, gross over €36.000 and €20,000, is almost nil under the line due to the leveling urge of this cabinet. There are many examples of bizarre relationships. Indeed, for household households, the tax burden is much higher than for other households. This is caused almost exclusively by the huge progression in income tax, of which the mad system of supplements is part, or: the leveling party of the Labour Party. This point was discussed in detail last year. Nothing has happened to it and this Tax Plan has not provided a solution to these problems either. I'm coming to box three. In 1892, capital tax was levied for the first time. This was abolished in 1914, because it was considered unreasonable. 50 years later, in 1964, the Capital Tax Act was adopted. Tax was now levied at 0.7% of the assets on the first day of the new year, after deduction of debts and the exempt part. The capital tax was abolished in 2001 and replaced by the capital efficiency tax. It is suspiciously similar to the tax which was abolished in 1914 because of its unreasonable character. The rate is 30% and assumes a fictitious return of 4%. About that fictitious return - we all know about it - VVD Minister Zalm said at the time: every loser achieves more than 4% return. If you can't do that, you can get government bonds with a yield of one percent or six. In the meantime, almost all Dutch people have been made fools by this cabinet, assisted by Mr Draghi of the European Central Bank, because, apart from the pension funds, there is no one who gets that return. This has led to a kind of consensus that should be applied to real returns. The Secretary of State says he wants this, too. He seems to be thinking differently, because he sees his approximately EUR 4.5 billion in fixed income from box 3 at risk. Lifting to real return means that the tax revenues from box 3 will vary with the state of the economy. This seems to be a scare to the cabinet, because of the impact on the EMU balance and therefore the fear of Brussels. Can the Secretary of State confirm or deny this? If he denies this, I want to know from him how to interpret the discussion on pages 11 and 12 of the progress report on levy box 3 on the basis of actual returns. In fact, it makes clear that the difference between the flat-rate returns used in box 3 in the system applicable from 2017 on the one hand and the introduction of a tax based on the actual return on the other hand, gives the State several billions between 2017 and 2019. In other words, savers are being squeezed out for a few billion more than the cabinet is mouthing off to hold reasonable. It concerns, for example, small entrepreneurs who have often not built up a pension, but who have to live on the proceeds of selling their business and who, for that reason, want to secure their money with as little risk as possible. As I said in the General Financial Reviews, some people just call it state theft: taxing something that hasn't been around for years. This is done thanks to the VVD Secretary of State for Taxation who is all too happy, even unsolicited, to devise and implement PvdA policy. In the Lower House, the Secretary of State said in the treatment of the Tax Plan: no one really likes paying taxes. For every euro you have worked hard and you want to keep as much of your income as possible. After all, you know the best thing you want to spend your money on. At the same time, these taxes are needed so that the government can invest in safety, roads, education and care. End of quote. So far, so much for the public to understand. What he no longer understands, and the Secretary of State does not mention these things, is that, on the one hand, in the tax field, this cabinet is pulling the screws everywhere and creating incomprehensiblely complex charging systems and, on the other hand, wasting the same billions on Brussels, development aid, asylum services, public broadcasting, subsidies for artists, windmills and innovation subsidies. It is this imbalance that has caused this cabinet to lose its support. In conclusion, it is time for a government which has the support to reform and reduce taxes. The Netherlands is looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u25	Mr. Chairman. The main issue in the assessment of the Tax Plan is whether there is fair sharing for the SP. The cabinet says it is striving for a balanced income development, which means that purchasing power, net income plus supplements, of all income groups is developing more or less equally. The SP doesn't go far enough. We do not want to keep income disparities equal, but we want to reduce them. But let us first address the government on its own objective. The cabinet succeeds in achieving its objective with the 2017 tax package. It does this, among other things, by limiting, on the one hand, the greatly increased working discount last year and, on the other, by increasing the general tax rebate and the elderly discount. As a result, the higher, middle and lower income groups are expected to progress 1% next year. The same applies to people with AOW and a small pension. According to the calculation model of the Central Planning Bureau, these tax shifts will cost jobs in the long term. So I conclude that for the cabinet, as for the SP and other parties, the CPB model in this respect is no longer so heavy. Greetings! However, if we look at the government's figures for this whole period of government, there is no question of balanced income development, even if we look at what the cabinet itself means by that. At the request of our group, the government provides the following figures in the note on the Tax Plan 2017 report, in Table 13 on page 24. Purchasing power increases 3.2% for the quarter of low-income households in the period 2012 to 2017. The quarter of households with lower middle incomes get 4% in purchasing power and the quarter of households with higher middle incomes get 7.6%. The quarter of high-income households are improving by 6.9%. For the sake of clarity, we have all left aside the breakdown into different sources of income and the division into groups of unequal size and simply asked for the purchasing power development of four equal groups of household income, from low to high. Well, that makes sense. The income disparities are therefore growing further under the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. The cabinet clearly fails to ensure fair sharing between the different income groups. Worse still, contrary to what the government has so far suggested and even said in the letter from the Minister of Social Affairs, government policy has not reduced the income gap between low and high income households, but increased it further. The government responds to the SP Group's question that through its policy, that is a separate column: what are the consequences of government policy? In the period from 2012 to 2017, purchasing power for low incomes increases by 0.9%, for lower middle incomes by 1.2%, for higher middle incomes by 2.9% and for high incomes by 1.9%. This is an increase in income disparities, also and extra due to the policy of the cabinet according to its own figures. That is quite contrary to the government's assertions so far. That is why I am asking how the Secretary of State intends to bring the government's claims into line with these figures so far. How does he assess these figures in the light of the government's objective of achieving a balanced income policy? Moreover, I asked Mr Van Rij to respond to these figures in the event of interruption, because they are quite a correction to what he argued in the first term. He still owes me the answer to that interruption. Perhaps he can do something about that in the second term. The fact that certain groups are being affected is directly due to government policy. As far as the so-called "one-earner households' are concerned, the Schalk motion adopted by the First Chamber last year is simply not implemented because it does not fit in with government policy. Well, with that reasoning, you can just put a lot of motions next to you. In fact, if the motion had been in line with government policy, it would have been superfluous. The motion for a resolution clearly called for an adjustment of government policy, but it is now put aside with the communication: unfortunately, this cannot be done, because it does not fit in with our policy. Next year, too, the single-earners are making less progress than others, precisely because of the government's tax policy. An amendment by Mrs Schouten in the House of Representatives to make the tax burden a little fairer on this point was very carefully put together. As a result, the well-known argument that jobs would be lost in the distant future could no longer be increased. But even such an amendment was voted away by the VVD, the PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks. The campaign of these parties against households with one earning partner is gradually starting to show fanatical-ideological traits. I'm afraid we'll have to wait until the election before we can put an end to this. Another group that has suffered from the government's income policy, or lack thereof, are the chronically ill and people with disabilities. It is true that next year this group will benefit from funding to reduce its own contribution to the Wmo, at least the municipalities will be able to reduce their own contribution with that money, but it will be severely affected throughout the cabinet period. A study published by the Nibud on behalf of the Eachen network in September shows that the unmatched care costs for people who need a lot of care have more than doubled over the past five years. For a couple with one chronically ill partner and a modal income, these costs increased from over €3,000 to over €7,000 per year. One explanation of the increase in the cost of care that this group itself has to pay is that during this period of the cabinet, the law on compensation for chronically ill and disabled persons and the scheme on compensation for own risk were abolished and the tax deduction for specific care costs was reduced. That is all deliberate government policy, which has put this group at a great disadvantage. Municipalities have instead been given extra money to support chronically ill and people with disabilities financially, but that is not enough. In addition, few municipalities use all financial instruments and often only for people with the lowest incomes. All in all, chronically ill people and people with disabilities have had to turn in heavy in recent years. The proposal to reduce the own contribution in the Wmo next year only compensates for a particle. The SP believes that more measures should be taken for chronically ill and people with disabilities to restore their purchasing power. Does the Secretary of State see that as well, or can he make a fuss on the Nibud's report? If he doesn't see it that way, why not? If he does, what's the government gonna do about this? Since the 1970s, companies have seen a relative decline in the share of labour income and a relative increase in the share of capital income, according to OECD calculations. According to a recent study by the Dutch Bank, with a revised method of calculating the income of self-employed workers, the so-called labour income ratio decreased to 73% in 2015 in the Netherlands. This is significantly below the average in recent decades. In many companies, profits are so high that they cannot invest them meaningfully in their own business. The dividend yields are high and very profitable companies buy up their own shares. In many sectors, the Dutch Bank also concludes, there is room for substantial wage increases. That would also be better for economic development than for the money to be used by companies. In this situation, you would expect tax revenues on capital to rise harder than those on labour. But that is not the case if we look at it in a multiannual perspective. The share of tax revenue from capital income is steadily decreasing. In 2014, only 14% of all tax revenues came from capital in the Netherlands. In the average EU country this was 21%. More than a third of income from labour, according to a recent article by Bas Jacobs in the Public Finance Magazine, even more than 40%, goes to the tax. Of capital income at most 10%. This is due, among other things, to the reductions in the corporate tax rate and the many possibilities for avoiding this tax. Now something is going to be done about the latter: the law is being amended on a number of points, including in the context of international agreements. For 2017 and beyond, these are changes in the innovation box and in the specific interest rate deductions and lead to significant additional tax revenues. The government proposes to use these additional tax revenues to reduce corporate tax by extending the first disc, the 20% rate. Contrary to what the government says, this does not benefit small businesses, but small and medium-sized enterprises. The Cabinet states that by combating tax avoidance and aligning the tax base more internationally, countries can only compete with the level of the tax rate. And then the cabinet immediately takes a new step in the race to the bottom. If possible, the Cabinet intends to further reduce corporate tax in the long term, including for large profitable companies, to cover the additional revenues from the tax avoidance measures. Our group agrees with the reaction of MP Nijboer of the PvdA. I quote: 'We should not reward the companies that first dodged tax at lower rates. That's a perverse reasoning." The near-force term "perverse" was in the quote, otherwise I would have avoided it in this Chamber. The SP believes that the tax on large corporate profits needs to be increased and, once again, a larger share of tax revenue. The additional income can be used, among other things, to reduce the tax burden on low-income people. The Netherlands is now participating in the construction of international policy against tax avoidance, but that does not stop the use that multinationals make of Dutch post-bus companies to pay almost no tax on their mega profits. For example, Google, which managed to avoid a tax of €2.67 billion by paying €2.7 million in the Netherlands in 2014 with a mailbox on the Amsterdam Zuidas, a tax discount of 99,9%. For companies like this, the Netherlands is a tax haven. According to a report published last week by Oxfam Novib, the Netherlands is in the top three of the world's tax havens and in the first place European tax havens. Once again it is clear that the motion-Van Vliet, adopted by the House of Representatives a few years ago, at that time still from the PVV, which asked the government to refrain as much as possible from the term "tax haven" for the Netherlands, can be described as an ostrich motion. The SP believes that the Netherlands should get rid of this dishonorable first place as soon as possible, starting with the closure of the PO Box companies that aim to evade the tax legalized. Does the Secretary of State share this ambition? And if so, what is he going to do about this in the short term? The better taxation of income from capital applies if it is up to us also to the taxation of assets or assets. Power efficiency. The SP believes that it should be raised, especially for those with high capital gains. Why should the rate here be lower than the rate for wages or benefits? In the meantime, the SP position has become almost commonplace for the capital efficiency levy to constitute the actual yields realised. The Secretary of State has now submitted to us the progress report of the study on taxing the actual return in box 3. It contains three possible scenarios to continue in this direction. The Secretary of State asks what we prefer. We will not be surprised to choose scenario A: for as many assets as possible, as soon as possible based on the actual return achieved. For financial assets, this means taxing actual capital increase, which includes regular income such as interest and dividend. We do wonder whether the introduction of this really should take four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u26	We agree with Mr Köhler on the question of the levying on the basis of a real return on the increase in capital. The Secretary of State has shown a wonderful note of life which clearly shows that at this moment and in the coming years, with the fictitious returns being used now, much more is being collected if you calculate it a few billion more....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Does Mr Köhler agree that this money should be returned to the taxpayer as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u27	You always count on both the return, in this case for us the actual return, and the rate. We believe that the rate should be raised so that the proceeds stop, at least for those with high capital yields. In more detail, Mr Van Strien refers to the fact that the amended scheme, which will be a bit better at the actual returns from 2017, continues to be higher for certain groups for the coming years than when you would count on the actual returns, in particular the savings rate. Mr Van Strien referred to this figure in his speech. Yes, that's true, only we can't move faster towards the real returns than the Secretary of State thinks possible. I would point out that the amendment on 1 January 2017 will reduce that problem. In the old scheme, where everyone was supposed to make 4% return, the small savers paid even more and the big savers paid even less than the actual return.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u28	It's not about the fare. You can discuss how high that must be. It is now a question of a very large number of people with wealth, and then we are talking about thousands or tens of thousands, I do not know exactly, but it is probably in the order of tens of thousands of people who pay more tax than they collect from that wealth. That's what it's about. Do you think that's fair? It's okay. It's okay. In Soviet Russia after the Revolution, they also found that fair. As long as assets were taken away, they thought it was fair anyway. But I'm asking the SP whether it's fair that people pay more taxes than they make returns on their assets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u29	I have studied the history of the Soviet Union and its early years quite well in my past and never discovered that there was a capital efficiency levy or something like that. There have been cases of confiscations. I must say that we, as SP, are clearly not in favour of such an approach to power and power efficiency. If we come to power, we will not propose to confiscate it. That does not seem fair to us. Then you ask whether we find it unfair that even under the amended scheme people still pay more, although less than in the past, capital efficiency tax than they actually pay. Yeah, we think that's unfair. I have just argued that, fortunately, more and more people are joining us in our efforts to tax real capital gains. Then that can't happen anymore. But I would also point out that if this is introduced, we are simultaneously in favour of an increase in rates on high yields. Of course, we do not want to feed this fund less and give all the money back to the wealthy people in our country. It is perhaps the aim of the PVV to better beg the wealthy, but that is not our objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u30	We occasionally explore what a change in the tax system might look like. Various combinations have already been mentioned, such as Dijkgraaf/Koolmees. Ideologically we are not. I'd like to have said that here. We also raised together in the House of Representatives on the issue of the actual return, via the members Bashir and Koolmees. But of course there is another step to be taken. If you agree on the justice of the real return, you're still talking about capital growth. But what about existing capabilities? How does the SP look at that? You are not in favour of confiscation, but that is, of course, a very different extreme. But how do you look at that? Then how do you proceed with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u31	We are in favour of an increase in the rate for the high capital yields. As long as that system is not yet perfected, we can imagine that there will be a tax on capital, but these two, together, of course, cannot tax more than 100% of the capital increase, because then you will still be confiscating.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u32	I'm a little lost on the trail. Mr Köhler, you were very clear to me at first. You said the SP is for variant A. I took it for a while. Variant A is indeed the power increase tax. What does the Secretary of State's memorandum of 20 September say? "Bank, savings and other claims: actual interest is taxed." That is your point: real return. It also says: "Shares, bonds and derivatives: the real capital increase is taxed, so the price gain (...)'. Even if it hasn't been realized, because that's the result of power increase. That is an inconsistency, because that is contrary to the principle of realisation. My question is as follows. What do you do with unrealized losses? Next, it says that for real estate there will be a flat-rate return. That's really not in line with your explanation just now. So what do you want now? Version A or a new "variant SP" that looks a bit like one building block from variant A?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u33	We choose the whole variant A. As far as the real estate and the like are concerned, I'll be right there, so you'll get an answer to that. On the first point: I have made it quite clear, but it is also more or less a quote from the report. It refers to variant A: for financial assets this means taxing the actual capital increase, which includes regular income such as interest and dividend. In savings accounts, the only capital increase is interest. In the case of shares, of course, you have both the price gains and the dividend distribution. Together, they determine the return. It is true, you are right, that this has not yet been achieved, but it is also clearly argued why you cannot wait for it. Maybe that price gain won't be realized for another 20 years or ever, until someone dies. That person would never have to pay a rate of return. The report therefore provides sufficient arguments for us to calculate the yields in the current case of shares, bonds and the like, consisting of price gains plus dividend and to charge them. You said, "What do you do with losing?" I am thinking in particular of price losses. Of course, they have to be taken into account. That's all in the game. It is also stated in the report that the details of how many years ago this could be discussed are still subject to tax. We await the proposals of the Secretary of State on this matter in confidence. But indeed, if you are going to tax price gains without them being realized, you must also consider price losses. It's no different. I may have to explain that to my fellow party members, but that is the reasonableness of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u34	That's a clear explanation. Would you like to go into real estate as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u35	Yeah, I came up with that. I can resume my text. Mr. Chairman. Those four years before the introduction of scenario A seems a little long to us. I ask the Secretary of State whether the legislative process, which has been planned for a few years, and the implementation by the Tax Administration and the chain partners, for which a few years have also been allocated, could no longer overlap. This reduces the length of the introduction period. Only for real estate, such as a second house, the actual return is not possible at the moment, given the data the Tax Administration can collect. This is explained in detail by the Secretary of State in the study. The Secretary of State therefore proposes to continue with a flat-rate percentage based on the average annual increase in value over the last period. That system will apply from this year on. Last year I asked the Secretary of State to include the potential operating profit in the tax base. That could also be done by a flat-rate percentage. In the case of shares, we also include both the price increase and the dividend in the calculation of the return. I would like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks about this, because the study does not go into this further. For the rest, our group is also looking forward to the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u36	Mr. Chairman. A good tax system is important for prosperity and well-being. For example, tax revenues are needed to finance our collective provisions. An intelligent and social tax system also has a guiding function to correct distressing inequalities, discourage harmful behaviour, such as pollution, and promote growth and employment. Fortunately, our country has a well-developed tax system. Incomes are taxed according to carrying capacity and compared to abroad we have a lot of environmental taxes. Much has been improved in recent years. Finally, there has been a firm intervention in the mortgage interest deduction. Tax avoidance has been addressed and capital tax will become fairer from 2017 onwards: small savers will be spared and people with large assets will pay more. The tax reduction of 5 billion in 2016 has largely benefited low- and middle-income and affordable childcare. For employers, the low-income advantage has made it more attractive to hire people with modest incomes. The reduction in the tax on working makes it possible for more people to find a job. However, there is still much to improve, as witnessed by the 2017 Tax Package that we are discussing today. It seems to be a thicker package of legislation and policy letters than ever before. Together, there are many dozens of measures and legislative changes. The whole has three main themes: purchasing power, simplification and tax avoidance, with even a separate legislative proposal focusing on simplification this year. We would like to thank the Secretary of State and his officials for the rapid and very detailed replies in the reply and note in response to the report, but we would like to take advantage of the opportunity to raise a number of points in plenary. With regard to purchasing power, the cabinet directs on a plus for all income groups. Particular attention is paid to the threat of loss of purchasing power for older people. This is achieved in tax terms through, among other things, a reduction in the employment discount. However, in the Kansrijk Labour Market Policy report, the Central Planning Bureau has calculated that a higher labour market reduction has the greatest effect on employment, especially if it is aimed at lower incomes. This tax incentive has an even greater impact on women and single parents. Why, then, has the cabinet chosen to reduce the working discount, so we ask the Secretary of State. How does he assess the corresponding impact on employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u37	Mr Sent refers to a reduction in the working discount, but she is referring to a reduction in the working discount, after which it has been increased exponentially for many years. You can't speak of a reduction if it's raised a little less?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u38	I am talking about the 2017 Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u39	Me too. But in 2016, it was decided to reduce the original increase in the labour discount of 2015 in this plan for 2017. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u40	I think that's what I said. With regard to simplification, the Tax Simplification Act can count on the warm support of my group. In particular, the streamlining of the recovery of tax debts and payment debts is, in our view, an important measure for the citizen. There is currently a bureaucratic swamp. Supplements and taxes are subject to separate regimes with separate rules. This leads to a huge stream of messages to the citizen, with the Tax Administration and Service fees regularly working alongside each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u41	Mrs. Sent already moved on to the next cup, so I thought if I wasn't careful, she'd be past purchasing power. She nods, so that's true. I very much agree with her that the cabinet has been committed to improving purchasing power for everyone, which has also been successful. As is well known, I tabled a motion during the APB, because some of us do get incredibly little extra purchasing power. Will Mrs Sent comment on this, asking the same question as Mr Backer, who did not support the motion at the time: how does she appreciate the research that comes into the position of people with a minimum income?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u42	We are, of course, very much looking forward to the results of that study. I think it is important to look at the various potentially unintended effects that may result from a combination of tax measures. We think it is important that the tax system makes it attractive for women to work. Today, the Emancipation Monitor has been published, which shows that only a very small majority of women are economically independent. That is why we believe that this is an important point of attention. We will certainly take this with other considerations as soon as the calculations of the Ministry of Social Affairs become known.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u43	The special feature of that motion is that the amounts raised in it apply not only to men or women who earn a living but also to single and two-earners. Your answer is very appropriate when it comes to emancipation, but you do not go into the motion. Can you still do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u44	I cannot anticipate the results of the investigation, which we are looking forward to seeing. Then we will weigh the different interests and see what proposals the cabinet comes up with. We will not only judge them, looking at the position of breadwinners, but also looking at emancipation. With this simplification, there will be a single recovery regime and a single payment system for surcharges and tax debts. We are only disappointed that the new regime will not enter into force until 2019 and would have liked to have seen an earlier introduction. My group would like to thank the Secretary of State for fulfilling his commitment to abolishing the fictitious employment of Commissioners in the Fiscal Simplification Act 2017. After all, these seemed to be in a special position as a result of the abolition of the VAR. Abolishing the fictitious employment means simplifying and reducing administrative burdens for all companies with supervisory boards. In doing so, my group considers that a fictitious service from the point of view of governance is undesirable. Apparently, there is a contrast between the Tax Simplification Act 2017 on the one hand and the Law on the other, temporarily reduced charging posts with an independent connection on the other. The hope is that a reduction in the energy load on electricity for charging stations with a self-contained connection can contribute to improving the business case for electric driving. But how does this bill fit into the intention to reduce fiscal instrumentalism? My group supports the purpose of the legislative proposal, let there be no misunderstanding about it. However, we would like to hear from the Secretary of State why he did not choose to achieve this through a non-fiscal expenditure scheme. As regards the approach to tax constructions and tax avoidance, the corresponding measures can also count on the support of the PvdA. With our colleagues in the House of Representatives, we consider it undesirable that there are routes to delay or avoid box 2 and box 3 charges. The government also takes measures, at the request of the Lower House, on the scope of the existing interest relief limitation in situations of excessive debt financing in the event of takeovers. But why have these measures not been taken before, and did our colleagues in the House of Representatives first have to adopt a motion and submit an own-initiative paper? The G20 and OECD have also fought against global tax avoidance. As a result, the innovation box is also under attack. After all, the scheme would make it attractive for companies to steer profits from innovation towards the Netherlands, while the actual R&D work takes place mainly abroad. This would encourage tax avoidance. With the present scheme, the government again focuses exclusively on R&D work that takes place in the Netherlands. And that is precisely what the innovation box is meant for: promoting innovation in the Netherlands. But why is the limitation of access to the innovation box not settled earlier and was the OECD's initiative awaited? Can the Secretary of State further confirm that the Netherlands wants to be part of the solution of tax avoidance, rather than part of the problem? From what can and should we notice this? On 22 April 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that the succession scheme in the 1956 Succession Act may also apply to shares held by a holding company in a body in which the deceased has no indirect significant interest. In the 2017 Tax Plan package, the government provides for the law to be repaired on the basis of this judgment. The Council of State also notes that the BOR, in terms of the gift and inheritance tax, is somewhat unbalanced. Tax attorney Mascha Hoogeveen has already concluded in her 2011 dissertation that the current tax succession schemes miss their goal. My group is asking the Secretary of State to undertake a new evaluation of the effectiveness of the BOR. We would like to hear from him at what time we can expect that evaluation. The approach to tax constructions and tax avoidance also raises a number of broader questions. The first question concerns the role of tax advisers. Professor Boer of Leiden University draws a parallel between bankers and tax advisors in the Independent Monthly Journal for Tax Law & Tax Practice of October 2016, as mentioned earlier by Mr Backer. Both groups live in a world dominated by neoliberal ideas and adhere to the rules of the game that are specific to that culture. The government has also been involved in this culture for many years. According to Professor Boer, a change in culture is needed, with a balance being struck between individual interests and social interests. How does the Secretary of State intend to contribute to the tax-ethical reveil of the profession of tax advisor, to which Professor Boer calls? The second question concerns the role of transparency. In order to combat tax fraud in particular, the exchange of information is a vital necessity. The crisis has speeded up the international exchange of information. In the future, the effectiveness of this exchange of information will still have to be demonstrated. For example, Professor De Bont of Erasmus University Rotterdam in the abovementioned monthly magazine wonders whether the tax authorities of countries, using automation, are able to process this huge flow of data in such a way as to reduce tax fraud and thus allow a fairer distribution of the tax burden. How does the Secretary of State view this? According to Professor Gribnau of Tilburg University and Leiden University, there is a ridiculous need for transparency. In his view, the exchange of information should be linked to clear objectives. How does the Secretary of State view this? The Law on the phasing-out of own-account pensions and other tax pension measures should not be left out of the plenary session of the 2017 Tax Plan package. As is well known, the financial benefits of the self-employed pension have declined or even disappeared over time. Moreover, in the vast majority of cases, the financial benefits no longer outweigh the disadvantages, i.e. the lack of flexibility and the high administrative burden. With the present bill, DGAs are allowed to stamp their pension obligations without penalty interest. They are then allowed to pay tax at a substantial discount. My group calls in particular for attention to be paid to the partner's consent to the change in own-account pensions. A potential concern that has already been expressed today is that the obligation to the partner for e.g. those who are underwater is unfulfilled and certainly cannot be paid out directly. The fear is that, under these circumstances, dgas will not be phased out. One possible solution is to legally establish that the partner's cooperation without (sufficient) compensation during the period 2017 to 2019 does not yield any donation to the dga. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he assesses the problem and what possible solutions he envisages. I have a number of comments to make on issues that are not covered in the package before us, but are related to them. My group is and will continue to strongly support the abolition of the VAR. The VAR resulted in a looming error in the risk sharing between contractors and clients. The VAR provided some certainty, but not in the right way. In the case of the employer, the security was derived from safeguard measures, including in situations not intended by the legislator, while in the case of the self-employed the risk of painful corrections persisted, including in situations where he was aware of no harm. And not least: for the government, the VAR-wuo was an obstacle to orderly enforcement. The fiercely discussed Law deregulation assessment of labour relations aims to improve enforcement by the Tax Administration by no longer protecting clients and combining this with the possibility of security through model agreements. This quite rightly corrects a looming error in the current legislation and in the previous legislation of the VAR. At the same time, however, the new law raises new questions about the relationship between tax and civil law. The Secretary of State is talking about this with our colleagues in the Lower House. We are happy to wait our turn in order to clarify the way in which uncertainty can be removed. My group believes that the underlying tax incentives that lead to the sharp increase in false self-employment should be addressed. I am referring here to the distortion which has arisen in recent years in the taxation of employees vis-à-vis the self-employed. From the perspective of employers, the large difference in tax and contribution burden leads to an increasing number of companies dismissing employees and then hiring self-employed workers at bottom rates. The result is a negative spiral in which a shrinking number of employed persons has to pay an increasing share of taxes, which makes it even more expensive to compare paid workers with self-employed workers. Employees thus finance not only the erosion of their own position, but also the erosion of their support under social insurance. However, it is repeatedly apparent that it is politically difficult to cut tax expenditure. Professor Van Arendonk of Erasmus University Rotterdam mentions the self-employed deduction as a typical example of this. He therefore argues that each tax issue should not only have a five-year horizon but also a zero measurement and a clear objective so that the scheme can be effectively evaluated. My group would like to hear the response of the Secretary of State to this suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u45	Mrs Sent rightly points out the tension in taxation between employees and the self-employed. As an example, she mentioned the self-employed deduction. In the election programme of the Labour Party, as well as in some other programmes, I read that it wants to reduce the gap by possibly reducing the self-employed deduction and introducing an employee deduction. I pointed that out in my speech. The employment discount has already risen to astronomical levels, up to €3,300 net tax-free. Does the Labour Party want to add a large employee deduction of €1,000 or €2,000, which means that employees pay no or much less tax, which must be paid by others again? How does Mrs. Sent feel about that? Does the Commission intend to introduce a worker's allowance in addition to the employment discount? Or isn't she for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u46	There are two ways to eliminate the difference between employed and self-employed workers. One is to abolish the self-employed deduction and the other is to introduce an employee deduction. I have already indicated that it turns out to be very politically difficult to cut tax expenditure. If I have understood correctly, this has also been one of the obstacles to the reform which the cabinet wanted to implement, but which has not been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u47	My question was different. If the self-employed deduction is not reduced, does the Labour Party opt for an increase in the employee deduction and a reduction in the tax, thereby making the problem budgetaryly even greater, for any cabinet? But apart from that, I do not see why you would like to introduce, in addition to a labour discount of €3,300, an employee deduction, which will apply mainly to the same group of incomes. That seems like a bridge too far. How does Mrs. Sent feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u48	The incentives are now such that it is more tax-friendly to dismiss workers and then hire self-employed people at soil rates. Those incentives must be removed in one way or another. An employee discount and the abolition of the self-employed deduction are possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u49	An employee deduction is in billions, if it is substantial. How do you plan to find cover for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u50	I think there's cover for this in our election program. I am sure that this will be properly taken into account by the Central Planning Bureau. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA considers that the burden of our welfare state is disproportionate to those employed. We also want companies and wealthy people to contribute their fair share. This requires not only a tough approach to tax avoidance, but also reform of the tax system itself. Further greening of the system is urgently needed. Finally, the system must become simpler and more serviceable. This means cutting deductions and a human approach to those who have fallen into a hopeless debt situation. We shall undoubtedly be discussing this in this Chamber. For now, I look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State to the questions we have put to him today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u51	Mr. Chairman. The Tax Plan is less controversial this year than last year. Apart from a fairly large number of technical details, on which I do not expect to be judged in all respects and which I would like to leave to the real experts in this debate, the package is better suited to the criticisms I made last year. The preference of workers planned for this year goes back slightly and other groups get a little more room. That is a step, but it is actually no more than that, in the direction of taxation purely on carrying capacity, without interfering with other political objectives. I am therefore in favour of the principles that should apply to us for a fair, effective and efficient system of income tax. Last year's Tax Plan was dealt with and I did so again in this year's General Financial Reviews. So it does not make much sense to do that again very comprehensively. So I'm going to say it very briefly. The system must be as simple as possible. Raise to carrying capacity, and preferably approach carrying capacity mainly per household and not individually. Fight extremely high incomes, which is also an aspect of carrying capacity. Do not use taxation to achieve political goals. Do not create deductions and separate tax rebates everywhere, which are also income-dependent. If necessary, use taxation to correct or compensate negative external effects in the social process. A renewed tax system has not been able to bring this cabinet about, but I would very much like to expect it from the next cabinet. There are two issues on which it may be useful to give an opinion and which make it useful to participate in this debate, even though these issues do not directly affect the Tax Plan for the coming year. First of all... As far as box 3 is concerned, for 2017, and perhaps beyond, we seem to be stuck with the plan adopted last year to set a flat-rate power level, per disc, with different percentages of power increase. As far as I am concerned, Mr Van Rij's emergency alternative could be a reasonable alternative. After all, there was a lot of criticism about the way that this system was worked out last year, including myself. For assets below €100,000, the flat-rate interest yield is, of course, still much higher than is actually obtained in interest. For the higher disks, the one who invests mostly in savings, and that is a lot of common people, always screwed. For anyone else, it's just a question of how it works out. In conclusion, it seems inevitable for now, but it should not actually apply for more than one year. I would also like to look at Mr Van Rij. The alternatives to a definitive scheme offered by the Secretary of State in his letter of 27 September do not seem very satisfactory. The variants A and B, which are based on the determination of actual capital gains or capital gains, may require, in addition to well traceable savings, a lot of the tax authorities and chain partners to determine the actual returns, especially where many changes in investments take place. In this case too, a flat-rate approach to the return is still needed for real estate. This does not seem attractive: again a heavy task for the Tax Administration and a lot of work for banks and many other parties. Variant C goes back to the system of fully flat-rate fixing of returns, but by power category. This seems to be more manageable, but it goes further than the actual desired tax on real returns and knows the problem that adjustment of assets can be attractive for the reference date in order to save tax. Moreover, and this is of course not a minor disadvantage, the tax revenue becomes considerably less predictable and can fluctuate strongly. The same applies to all three variants. Because of the need for simplicity and transparency, we would recommend to the Secretary of State to choose variant C. However, if we were to use predictability as a criterion, we would fall back on what I explicitly suggested last year, namely: opt not for a capital return tax, but simply for a capital tax. Determine a tax-free capacity which is clearly higher than the current one and set a capital tax rate of between 1.2% and, for example, 1.5% for the capital to be taxed. Then we have simplicity, transparency and predictability, both for taxpayers and for the tax authorities. And property property, when it comes to greater assets, seems to me to be a very well-founded basis for taxation. Moreover, we have actually done so so so far. Secondly, the NRC of 8 December. The Netherlands still closes many secret tax deals with multinationals, according to a new European report in which the Dutch research foundation SOMO has cooperated. "The Netherlands has done very little in their own country to address its role as facilitator of tax avoidance," says Jasper van Teeffelen of SOMO. And also Football Leaks shows us the real tax havens in the Caribbean, but also the role of the Netherlands in making real use of them. That fashion chain Zara of the Netherlands seems to have used to pay too little tax elsewhere, is yet another scandal in the endless series. Finally, last night, Oxfam Novib nailed the Netherlands as the third major tax haven. There really seems to be, still, something thoroughly wrong. With Mrs Vos, I ask what we are actually doing about this. Not only the Netherlands but all countries, of course, are trying to bind companies through the regime of their income taxes, not in terms of work, of course, but first of all in terms of finance. Apparently, only one thing really helps to do about this, namely to bring the systems of taxation across as many countries as possible into line, first and foremost within the EU. There shouldn't be any more opportunities for cleverness. That's what plans are for. I mentioned it during the General Financial Reviews and I would like to emphasise it again: CCCB, possibly extending it to CCCTB. Does the Secretary of State not agree with me that this would put an end to the improper collection of tax revenues and, therefore, to the reduction of the total tax liabilities of, above all, the most capital-intensive institutions and individuals? The House of Representatives has expressed an objection to subsidiarity on these proposals, and this is also the subject of this debate, but would the Secretary of State not like to look at them a little more positively? CCCB and CCCTB are without prejudice to the setting of rates for the tax on profits, because of course it falls under the sovereignty of the State, our dearest State. Fare differences between Member States can certainly be justified by the differences in all possible other location factors, which may require relatively low rates or may, on the contrary, offer the possibility of relatively high rates. However, as in the determination of the tax bases, tariff setting is, of course, very easily developing a tendency to unbridled competition, which is at the expense of everyone's revenue. We now extend the first disc of the Vpb. Agreed, but what if the United Kingdom and the United States cut their income tax to 15%? What do we do? I would ask the Secretary of State: could the setting of a minimum rate in Europe, as in the case of VAT, do something about that? How does he feel about that? Finally, I would like to ask two small questions. The first is a bit in line with the last point. The Slovak EU Presidency failed to get the second version of the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive (ATAD) ready by 1 January. There are still problems with the requested exceptions for the financial sector, but an additional problem seems to be that the Netherlands is not prepared to implement this regulation until 2024. Maybe the Secretary of State can tell us exactly what's going on. I come to the second, the very last question. The Secretary of State promised to send the assessment of the levy on extreme golden handshakes to the Chamber. I would have used it, but I haven't seen her yet. When can we expect this evaluation? Or did I miss something? I'd like to wait for the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u52	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. We walked a little bit. I shall suspend the sitting for an hour and twenty minutes, so until 5:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u53	Mr. Chairman. That was a lot of questions for an hour and 15 minutes! I did my best. I'll start with all the questions about marginal pressure. Then I come to the questions about income policy, the differences between groups and the elderly. But a number of general questions have also been asked about the purchasing power and income picture. A few questions have been asked about the self-employed pension. Then we'll have some greening questions. I have also looked at everything about the climate of establishment and tax avoidance. Box 3 suggestions have been made. Furthermore, I have a number of questions that do not fit in with anything else. At the end I will come to a few questions about the service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u54	Do you think it's gonna work in about two and a half hours?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u55	I'm gonna work really hard. I'll try to keep it brief. I'll start with the marginal pressure. This also has to do with the differences between groups. That discussion is going through. Let me go back to just after Mr Van Rij's green age, the only one who may have experienced the following. I imagine you're a freshman in taxation with nothing but your sense of justice. The first idea is: anyone who works more and earns more must also have more. And if two people make the same amount of money, they pay the same amount of tax. I imagine you're about to start your studies. The questions that have now been asked here are precisely about that not always happening. Those are the real political questions that need to be asked. These questions are partly about the single earner, but you can ask the marginal printing questions about everyone. However, the single earner has been mentioned as an example in the debate. I have already said it to Mr Ester, who has asked questions about this: this is undoubtedly something that is rubbing, which feels unpleasant. After all, it does not comply with the principles of fairness of that incoming first-year student taxation. It's just, it's not that easy to fix. Mr Ester gambled that I would say this, but it is true. That is also true on purely mathematical grounds. We can see that the marginal pressure in a particular trajectory is very high. This is due to the reduction in marginal pressure in the section below, which in some cases was above 100%, which is the poverty trap. We've got the poverty trap, the re-entry trap. Mr Ester has very skilfully listed all the traps. That's exactly what happened. If you want to fix the marginal pressure in the piece above, there are actually only three possibilities. The first is: support the bottom less, which causes the bottom to go down and you have space to lower the marginal pressure. The second is that you let the top out higher. Those are two de-levelling options. The third is that you're going to increase the poverty trap again. None of these are things the cabinet has chosen. It has been chosen to make work pay again and to make more work pay. In some sections, this is extremely difficult. That is why, in my view, Kamerbreed has been asked for that inquiry by Mr Asscher. The question is quite broad. Mr Van de Ven is making a good effort to make it even wider. He says, in addition to the marginal pressure, let us also bring the net disposable income. Of course, if you have considerations about marginal pressure, you hardly get away from having considerations about net disposable income. Well, that's a bit of a logical extension. However, I leave it to the Minister of SZW to decide how to implement it. It doesn't seem like an illogical request to me. I'll pass it on to my colleague. In the context of the same study, Mr Ester asked a further question about the IACK (income-dependent combination discount). I have to take it out of my mind, but this was mentioned in the letter with the instruments and not with the effects in the front of the letter. But that's where this one belongs, of course. Examples are given. If I remember the sentence correctly, it says something like "like..." but the other "likes" would have fit in. A few comments have been made which are in line with the previous one, such as: the effects for different groups are very different. That too, of course, sands. We have facilitated a lot of objectives in our tax system. We want something with older people, so we have an elderly discount and other rates in the first and second disks. We'd like people to go to work. We also want people to work with small children. We also want the non-working partner to work with small children. We want this from an emancipatory point of view and from the point of view of prosperity, but also simply from the idea that we want everyone to participate in society. And we want to encourage entrepreneurship. Those are all goals that play around them. They're all legitimate. They are also divided over the seats in this room. One attaches more to this and the other attaches more to that, but that's how the Netherlands works. We have stacked them all on top of each other and that gives some groups great differences with other groups. I think the question is correct. It's not something that's changed this year. Last year, more has changed than it is now, but also that can sand. We see that some groups contribute a lot and others do not. I don't have the solution right now, but the only way is of course to sacrifice one of your goals and to do less about it. In general, I have had occasion to point out that in other areas too, I sometimes find instrumentalism in taxation to be far-reaching. We have tried very hard to achieve all kinds of goals, but no debate on taxation will pass without someone in the Chamber asking for more instrumentalism with extremely noble and good motives. I think that few people in this Chamber have said that greening is nonsense, but all of this is again facilitating tax, which you might want from a political point of view, is yet another instrumental boost in taxation. That's what we do. Mr Van Rooijen has used a few firm words in the area of the elderly. Now I have to agree with Mr Van de Ven a little bit in terms of speech. We can be completely blinded by the purchasing power figures, but these are percentages compared to the previous year. Mr Van Rooijen says that we should not discriminate according to age, but in his favour, I think that we facilitate very much by age. This is precisely why an older average pays less tax than a worker with the same income. That's because we discriminate according to age. That's what we do! In fact, Mr Van Rooijen's cautious attempts to reduce the age discrimination we have applied are being dealt with with with a certain excitement. So yes, we do age discrimination. That is what we do, and that means that older people do not pay more but less taxes than a comparable worker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u56	That excitement isn't so bad, especially at this hour of the day. I will come back to that later, perhaps, and so will the Secretary of State. When I talk about age and age discrimination, I continue to say that older people do not pay an AOW premium, because it is a public insurance. That means you get the benefit and the premium stops. My impression is that every new cabinet thinks that this is actually an outdated idea. We do not think so with a few other groups in this Chamber and on the other side. You should not look at what tax and premium is together and then find that an AOWer pays less tax because he does not pay an AOW premium. He doesn't pay less taxes, because he gets much less discounts in the tax sphere. That, on balance, if you add up everything, he's a little lower than a 20 grand employee has to do with the fact that an AOWer doesn't pay an AOW premium. It only saves €1,000, by the way; I can prove that later, but so does the Secretary of State. Everyone is going around that principle, but we think that is an incorrect approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u57	That is a clear view, but at least we agree that if a working person and an older person have the same income, on average the older person will have more. I think we can also agree that on this very evening, which is purely about the Tax Plan, a fundamental discussion about the AOW might be less appropriate. For this purpose, directors who are specifically concerned with the AOW must be called upon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u58	To put it in perspective, I would like to refer to Table 7 and Table 8 of piece E on page 9. This shows that you're talking about a difference of €1,000 to €1,500 between someone under 65 and someone over 65. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u59	In Mr Van de Ven's example, they were other amounts. It depends very much on which group you are in, because we all pay a different amount in the Netherlands. Speaking in general terms, however, I think we are saying the same thing here. I also want to put it in perspective on my part. Everyone in this room is good for the elderly, because we all grow old one day and it is a fair way to treat not only the working part but also the older part of life in an appropriate way. But let's just say that the income of older people, when we talk about standardised disposable income, is higher than that of one of the most important groups of workers, namely the 25 to 45-year-olds. That's where most of the work is done. That income is higher. The real increase in income since 2000 is 8%, and that of the same workers is only 1.5%, if you are talking about the standardised disposable income. The ability of the elderly is, not surprisingly, the highest of all age groups. The wealth development is most favourable, because the 25-45 year olds have only half of the wealth they had then, while the elderly are still at about the same power.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u60	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u61	Finally, in the case of the elderly, let me just finish my sentence. The risk of poverty is only one third of the group's chances of being 40 years old, and a quarter of the young people's chances. This year is also 60% of the purchasing power package - 60%! "To the elderly." That's 60% of the whole purchasing power package. That's what puts it in perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u62	That was quite an argument from the Secretary of State. This has been said before and it reminds me a bit of a gramophone record answer, but that aside. You can't compare 65-plussers to 45-plussers or 25-plussers, because these are very different categories. For example, you cannot compare older people with children under 18 who are sometimes in poverty, and certainly not with children in Greece, who are even worse off. You have to compare 65-plussers to 50-plussers. The answers show that the average power is hardly different. I'm not going into that right now. The Secretary of State himself said that half of pensioners have a pension of less than €10,000 and that there is only a limited group that has more than €20,000. He even says: I am not prepared to ask the CBS to calculate that better, because that group is very small. What the hell are we talking about? It is not true that the elderly are rich; that is old-age framing and old-age basing, which I cannot accept.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u63	I didn't say old people were rich. I'm just saying that they have more power than the other income groups, and that turns out to be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u64	We're talking income tax here, not box 3. That's another point. When the elderly say "We are actually wrong in income tax, because we do not get all these discounts. If you keep working, you'll even get half discounts," box 3 will be added. But box 3 is not an argument for not giving certain rights in box 1 to the elderly who do have workers. Box 3 is power, and you shouldn't say: the elderly have a bit more power than young people.That makes sense after 40 years.That's why we think they should be caught in box 1. You must separate box 3 and box 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u65	I'm not saying that at all. I even called the word "logical" in property. However, it is a fact that older people, even if you look at income, are more likely to survive and at the same time that is another point; especially where they have more power than the other age groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u66	I actually have a point for Mr Van Rooijen to clarify. He says: if 65-plussers work, they are only entitled to half the discounts that other workers receive. That's a logical consequence of the law, isn't it, because you don't get discounts if you don't pay social security contributions? When you're 65-plus, you don't pay social security contributions anymore. That's always been the case since we got the Income Tax Act 2001.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u67	You may give one response to this, Mr van Rooijen. I would like to make this discussion a little brief, otherwise we will be here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u68	What Mr Van Rij says is true. From 1990, the Oort system, and 2001 the system is indeed working in this way because premiums and taxes have been put together; apart from what you think of that. It is also true that the tax rebates affect the AOW premium, but the point is that when it was reconfirmed in 2000, the tax rebates were relatively low. Moreover, there was hardly any employment discount and the IACK was not there at all. The explosion of the employment discount and the IACK leads to a dramatic drop in the contributions of the AOW, which then has to be paid by general means, including the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u69	I now come to my final relativization of Mr Van Rooijen's speech. He says it's a shame old people aren't entitled to the same discounts. That goes in the opposite direction, of course. Most of us in this Chamber, not Mr Van Rooijen, are not entitled to the old-age discounts. The 50PLUS Group has asked a lot of questions. The VVD claimed that it was the 50-plus-percent of the number of pages of the reply. 50PLUS also asked a supplementary question about the purchasing power of pensioners, but I thought for a moment that we would never be able to answer them. However, we have succeeded in doing so, because the answer already exists. Figure 9 on page 24 is the table requested by Mr Van Rooijen. This table deals with the purchasing power of pensioners broken down by the amount of supplementary income in addition to the AOW in the requested groups. It is also a good thing that this figure is there, because otherwise we would never have been able to answer at this time. I would like to suggest with caution that perhaps the response capacity of the departments will be put to an end, because the answers have really been worked completely blue; really blue! From this seat, I would like to thank my fellow officials once again for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u70	I would like to endorse that once again. Table 9, at our request, is now finally in it. For the first time in fact, it is shown in that table that the elderly with a pension of €20,000 or more are, by the way, only a limited group of people who have lost more than 10% in purchasing power between 2000 and 2015 and that the workers I believe have already improved 30% this afternoon. This is a 40% difference between welfare development and the purchasing power development of workers and pensioners. In fact, that of the workers was plus 30%, while the pensioners with a non-indexed pension which is long standing still and for which they have worked for for a long time have fallen from €20,000 or €25,000 to 12%. That's why this graph is in it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u71	Then I come to Mr Van Rooijen's question as to whether a more gradual or other reduction of the oldage discount cannot be covered by the insilved part. We are, of course, not entirely crazy when it comes to drawing up the budget. The unsilvered part is not booked as an item of expenditure. It's included in the image that it's unsilvered. That money doesn't really exist and so it's not a lucky one you can use as cover. We have to ask ourselves whether we should specifically consider the unsilvered old-age discount as a problem in itself. 'Cause what's going on here? These are people who don't pay taxes. That's the type of problem you can get jealous of. I do agree with Mr Van Rooijen that I also said in the House of Representatives that the fact that the elderly discount falls down like a cliff certainly does not deserve a beauty prize. I think Mr Ester asked why I didn't do anything about it. Yeah, actually, I could have. It's quite a jigsaw puzzle, because you have to start instrumentalizing it all again. If you want to do that budget neutral, you're gonna have to cut it down sooner. But I do not have a fundamental answer to this question. It could have been. I can imagine that we are going to do so once, because it is quite a logical idea. You'll get marginal pressure over a longer trajectory. Perhaps I could make a relative comment on that before Mr Ester interrupts? However, I would argue that it is less essential to fix it in the case of the elderly discount than in the case of other groups. It is still illogical, not a bad word about it, because most older people do not have the demand for marginal pressure in the case of extra work. Most of it's inflamed. That means that the distance to the cliff remains about the same, no matter which side you're on. Thus, behavioural effects will rarely occur as a result of these rapid declines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u72	I understand the Secretary of State's reasoning. But what he says also has something very random, because the border might as well be somewhere else. We stand here as politicians. There must also be some kind of political legitimacy for the choice made by the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State says that this might as well have a different slope and that we could have done the same. I do not think that is a satisfactory conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u73	Maybe we're more in agreement than it seems. I suggest that the cliff, although it is not very harmful in practice for this group, is not in itself a satisfactory instrument. We could have fixed that. It didn't come from that, but it could have. It is also reasonable to look at that critically. I don't think it deserves a beauty prize.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u74	No, it doesn't deserve a beauty prize. Does this also mean that the Secretary of State is considering commitments in this respect, other than that it has been a certain arbitrary choice? I challenge the Secretary of State to take another step tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u75	Yeah, but that'd be a little gratuitous, too. Because then I'm actually just making commitments for a successor. There is still plenty to do within this reign and I do not want to burden my successor with all kinds of things. I think this is a logical thought. I would be happy to commit myself to putting this into hand on the list of useful ideas. If I make promises now, I know I won't have to carry them out myself. So that's a little gratuitous and I don't like that much. Mr Van Rooijen said or asked for a response to the statement that older people did not benefit from the 5 billion package. Now I always do my utmost here not to look like a gramophone record, but if Mr Van Rooijen asks me exactly the same question as last year, unfortunately it will look a bit like that. My answer is that they did benefit from that. In fact, they got a proportional share of the 5 billion package. Last year, perhaps even in response to a question from Mr Van Rooijen himself, this was presented in table form on page 20 of the response to the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u76	Briefly, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u77	Yes, Mr President, because this is very easy. What the Secretary of State says is true. The fundamental difference between the 5 billion package and the repair now is that there was a structural burden relief for the workers of by far the majority of the 5 billion and that, to our sorrow for the elderly, only one-off exceptional large purchasing power repair took place, because otherwise the elderly would "go far through the ice" to speak with the minister. What is happening now is that I am late in the middle of whether it is due to the elections, and that it is still being generously repaired what was basically wrong last year by doing a major structural repair now. So last year they were wrong. I leave it in the middle whether it could have been budgetary or not; I think it can, but at least it can now. We are, of course, pleased with that. However, the Secretary of State should not equate last year's structural burden reduction with a proportionate part of a temporary measure, which would now have expired. This would not create a large income gap. Especially in view of the elections, the Secretary of State had to repair this by doing it structuralally now and even generously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u78	There I heard a little appreciated word; I couldn't help it. Then there are many more general questions about purchasing power development. GroenLinks and the SP have both asked how income development has progressed in relation to inequality. I think that we have made it clear that this was also the case in this cabinet period, and that there was a particular focus on work. I don't clap out of school when I say "That's what the Labour Party and the VVD are binding on. "There are two parties, not only in party history, but also now, who have a rather firm ambition to have people at work, where they can, because they are both convinced that the way out of poverty preferably leads through work. That means you're gonna tackle poverty traps and make working, even more work, attractive. This indeed means that the income of workers has improved more than the income of beneficiaries. Within the group of workers that is very egalitarian. In fact, at the bottom there has been more intervention to get to that egalitarian image. So the policy commitment has led to this image being so neatly equal. If nature had done its job, there would have been inequality among the workers. The inequality that we measure SZW has there all kinds of methodologies for SZW would have been reduced by 1.5%. That's the policy commitment. On the one hand, on the basis of this policy commitment, it is said that workers should be given more than beneficiaries, but on the other hand it is said that there should be more policy at the bottom to get that equal picture. In essence, this means reducing inequality in terms of income policy, where the results are as I have just reported them. This also means that the gini coefficient has remained virtually stable over the past decade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u79	At the risk of interfering too early, I would point out that I also asked the Secretary of State to deal with the unsuccessful results of those operations. He once again argues that this has already been done ten times by the cabinet and that the cabinet wants to favour the workers. That's his right. However, the cabinet has also said that it wants a balanced development for all income groups, regardless of the source of income. I asked the Secretary of State how he appreciated the fact that, as a result of the government's policy, the purchasing power of low incomes rose by 0.9% and that of high incomes by 1.9%? That's just de-levelling, isn't it? Surely that does not correspond to the commitment which the cabinet believes it is making in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u80	Are these the figures for the whole period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u81	Yes. These are the figures on the impact of the policy measures of the Rutte II cabinet over the whole period, as shown above the column in Table 13 on page 24 of the note following the further report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u82	In this graph I do not know whether we have the same graph for us....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is less than 8% of the workforce. The difference between working and not working has been increased, but within the groups it has been examined whether the policy has contributed to the fact that the bottom of such a group did not sink away from the middle and the top of that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u83	Finally, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u84	I'm afraid we're repeating ourselves. In the same column or table the Secretary of State now has, the first block provides an answer to the question raised by the SP Group. In it, regardless of the source of income, it simply looked at the income. It then becomes clear that the government's policy has made the lowest quarter of household income less advanced than the middle income and high incomes. If you look at income groups, you have to establish that there is de-levelling for the entire population. I'll ask the Secretary of State again if he recognizes this. Does he contradict his own figures? Or does he take this for granted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u85	No, no, I don't argue with that. I'm just saying that if you're gonna mix the workers and the non-workers, you're gonna get a lower part of that lower part of the building than the part up there, because most of the workers are in it. That is a mathematical fact; there is no other way. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u86	I still see a difference between the letter sent to us by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, Mr Asscher, and the answer to the SP's questions on the Tax Plan. Mr Asscher wrote: "The income policy has reduced income inequality in the cabinet period." That is a literal quote from Mr Asscher's letter. This is certainly not consistent with the figures which Mr Köhler has just given to the Secretary of State. These figures show that income policies in the last quartile generate 0.9% additional purchasing power, but in a number of higher quartiles much more: in the third quartile 2.9% additional purchasing power and in the upper quartile 1.9%. That is indeed a government policy that does not reduce income inequality. This policy, on the other hand, ensures that the lowest quartile reaches a greater distance from the higher quartiles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u87	I believe that this means that policy commitment has reduced the differences compared to what the differences had become without policy commitment. That's definitely right. This is evident from the states in which you see the difference between the final outcome and the policy commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u88	I've got State Secretary's charts here. Among other things, the cumulative purchasing power in the various quartiles is neatly set out. There we see a difference, because the last quartile has improved considerably less, less than half, than the two highest quartiles. It also states that the cabinet's commitment is to be appointed separately. I therefore assume that the figures there are the result of the policy of the cabinet. I can't read it any other way. The result of the government's income policy is that someone in the lowest income group is only 0.9% down on it and someone in the next-highest income group is getting 2.9% up on it. That is the result of the government's income policy. So I do not think what Mr Asscher writes is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u89	I have a proposition. There are a lot of tables. The way in which the debate has been conducted also means that I am now being seriously questioned about my colleague's tables. Let me take a look at the table in question during the dinner break. There are so many of them that I need to get the right table; perhaps Mrs Vos would like to help me with that, so that I can give an appropriate response in the second term, as if I were the Minister of SZW myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u90	I have a very brief informative question. The Secretary of State talks about policy efforts to reduce inequality at the bottom of the wage building, among the lower income groups. What's he thinking about? I have just said that the minimum wage is already going wrong with marginal pressure, for example. Then what's the bottom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u91	The bottom is a different group for each instrument. For example, the workers at the bottom have been given the LIV. This is a reduction in working time which benefits all workers. One person gets more of that than the other. Those are instruments that work at the bottom. For each group that is a different instrument. There's a whole bunch of policy instruments. The purchasing power package of 1.1 billion this year alone contains seven different instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u92	These instruments are, of course, one of the problems. I wonder where exactly the bottom of the income begins. It could be said that the bottom starts at €0 or at €1, but it must be appropriate for an amount that people can build up. We have the concept of'modal'. Is that the bottom? Or does the Secretary of State say that the minimum youth wage is the bottom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u93	We have all kinds of different definitions about this. I think Mrs Fox's table can help Mr Schalk to tell us what income we are talking about. Mr Ester asked how seriously we deal with the suggestion made by the Christian Union Group in the House of Representatives. I was very positive about that. I also congratulated the Christian Union on that. I have said that we will involve this suggestion very seriously in the 2018 Tax Plan. That has already started, because we are about to start with the tax plan for the next year. So that's a serious bust. My enthusiasm was also sincere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u94	The more compliments you get, the more suspicious you get sometimes. I will not be tempted by that emotion, for there is no reason to do so. You're taking it very positively. I am very pleased with that, also because you see the intelligence behind the amendment. Can you tell me in concrete terms what it means that you're taking it with you? What am I supposed to think?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u95	When preparing a next tax plan, we get to the idea stage first and then different decisions are taken on the direction. In this case, it is still quite complicated, because the formation of such ideas is being introduced. I haven't seen that before. Usually, a few more fundamental directions are chosen at the front of the tax plan path. This could be one. This means that there must be a detailed proposal on the impact and coherence with other things. This must be ready for decision so that a decision can be taken at the beginning of the tax journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u96	Thank you. Then I have a very small question. Can I also assume that this amendment will be included in the examination requested in the Schalk motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u97	That's an interesting question. I admit that I will bring this to the attention of Minister Asscher of SZW. The fraction of 50PLUS asked for non-elderly. This question is linked to the CDA Group's remark that it has been moved by a number of 10 billion or 15 billion dollars, and I have heard several numbers coming by, and that all this has been charged to the middle groups. That's the story, I think. Labourers have significantly improved in net purchasing power as a result of explicit policies in this cabinet period 8.5%. They do not look like groups in the statistics who have had to pay for someone else. That's a suggestion I'm not just taking over. Mr Van Rooijen asked how we would feel about abolishing the general tax rebate, the labour rebate and the income-dependent combination discount and lowering the rates in box 1. That is another reform, but I am not looking at it with too much happiness, because the lower incomes are going to fall sharply and at the same time it is damaging to the employment rate. That's something you shouldn't just say yes to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u98	The Secretary of State addressed the point raised by the CDA Group, among others. I am based on the reply, in particular the tables and the text on pages 19 to 21, in response to a written question by Mr Van Rooijen. A comparison was made between 2012 and 2017 with regard to the question of what budgetary amount would be involved if the ceilings of the labour rebate and the general tax rebate had not been increased, while the amounts would have been adjusted for inflation. This is not even about income dependency. I understand this would be 10.3 billion, so that amount doesn't fall from the sky. We are making the point, which I would like to make equally clear, in response to your reply, that if that choice had not been made to increase the limits of those discounts, apart from the fact that a number of tax rebates are no longer cashable, there would have been 10.3 billion room. That's what the answer says. You could have wagered it to lower the rate per disc by 2.3%. Depending on the choice you make, the middle incomes had improved more. I admit that workers have improved their purchasing power. That is also an indirect answer to Mr Köhler's question. It is a question of where the superiors ended up. This has, to some extent consciously, reached lower incomes. If you had shifted that 10.3 billion in a different way, the purchasing power plates for the middle incomes would have looked different. In Annex 2 of the report Looking back at income policy purchasing power 2012-2017 we still see large differences in terms of the purchasing power improvement of double mode, as a single earner with children has improved not 8.5% but 2.7% during that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u99	It is undoubtedly true that if you commit yourself to an instrument that leads to less taxation and if it is aimed at a group other than that for which it was originally deployed, then that other group is making more progress and not that one group. The point is that during the period of the Rutte II cabinet you see as a result that the workers have all improved roughly 8.5%. If you had given less at the bottom and more at the center, then the middle would have progressed more and the bottom less. It's been chosen not to. A balanced income development has been chosen for all these groups. The workers can be seen to progress with about the same steps. That was a huge increase in purchasing power, which has made work more attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u100	In my view, the Secretary of State gives a very good picture of what really happened, compared to Mr Van Rij's and me's assertion that you would have had 10.5 billion available for the wedge if you hadn't intensified that employment discount, IACK. My colleague mentioned 2.3%, but it is even 2.8%. My question to the Secretary of State is whether it would not have been a very attractive alternative to reduce the wedge. That's been the creed on Finance for a long time. There was a possibility to reduce the wedge with three full points for all discs, but the cabinet has decided not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u101	If you put it here, you can't put it there anymore. There are always benefits. I'm approached about twice a week by someone who has a fantastic idea of lowering a specific tax, which would be very good for the country. I almost always agree with those people, but they never have an answer to the question of who will pay it. It is true that taxes distort and lead to the wedge, and that they consume, work and invest make it less attractive, just like to keep your money in the Netherlands. It has only disadvantages, but you still have to have an answer to the question: who will pay it? If we don't do it with one group, it'll end up with the other, which makes sense. But we have chosen a balanced purchasing power development here. Admittedly, in the case of workers more than in the case of recipients of benefits, but within the group of workers there is a proper right, for which no one should be ashamed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u102	I can only observe that the way in which the Secretary of State explains it perfectly reflects the government's income policy. I understand that choice, with the exception of whether I agree with it, but it does indicate that the tax progressive rate is made subordinate, because it is not a reduction in rates or a reduction in the wedge, but a redistribution of the 10 billion between the low and middle groups. I can imagine something about that, even from my political point of view, but I note that there has been a lack of an opportunity to bring down the rates of all the discs by 3%. That was fiscally possible, just like last year's 5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u103	This is about by definition right, if you don't do one but the other. You're missing something, but you're getting something in return. Then we have the question of pensions in our own hands. Mrs Sent and Mr Van der Ven asked another question about this. I don't know. I heard the motives coming along very quickly, but it seemed as if Mrs Sent was mainly trying to protect the partner from the dga and Mr Van der Ven the dga mainly wanted to protect it from the partner. If this is the same instrument, it would be fantastic, but the question is whether that is the case. If partners outside the community of goods... within the community of goods...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If the dga is going to divorce outside the community of goods, then you have to make an agreement about the pension distribution. Essentially, it is now. That's what we have to do now. You can do it by recording how you want to do it later. That doesn't change. If that resulting distribution, the agreement that comes out, is not economically reasonable, then in theory, gift tax is due. That's not new either. That's what's happening now. That doesn't change either. I say "in theory" because it's very rare. If I say "very rarely," that means that those on that team cannot remember that in this situation there would have been a recent donation tax due. The only thing that changes is the abolition of self-employed pensions, which means that what is self-employed should no longer be called a pension, is that, at the time of retirement, agreements must be made on their own initiative in the event of divorce. That is about the appropriate compensation. That is something that needs to be agreed on now. In the event that the pension would continue to exist, a law was available for that purpose which sets out some frameworks, but which also allows a lot of freedoms to exist. There's no objection to doing it exactly like that. Along the lines of existing case law, you can now also determine and calculate this, starting from the moment of separation. Mr Van Rij said that neatly. It is about a claim in the future. You're gonna take care of that, and you're gonna record that in due course. That is a very clear guideline. There is also no reason for government regulation of the distribution of pensions in the case of divorce. In fact, it may be that if you now grant exemption from donation tax, you will take away the incentive for both the dga and the partner to arrange it neatly. In other words, by finding a solution to a non-existent problem you then create an existing problem. I don't want to do that. I think it's easier now to record how you're about to process the claims. In an earlier case in divorce, you would have done the same. It can be arranged neatly. In this way, both the partner and the dga will perhaps be protected from an incorrect distribution or a distribution that is so crooked that you need to speak of a donation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u104	It depends on the starting point you choose. There was a judgment in 1959 in which a wedding outside the community of goods was converted into a wedding within the community of goods. This is based on how the other agreements should be settled at a later date in the event of a divorce. However, I believe that this judgment is misinterpreted. You can say that this is the line, but it is not the line at all, because it was about another issue, namely the case that it was married outside the community of goods, was lifted. Nothing is going to be lifted here. That's the distinctive difference. We are now talking about a simple journey, but for my opinion you are moving the problem, the return that has to be credited to the settlement, which has led to the phasing out of the PEB to the future. That's unclear. Is that the ultimate forward rate, the so-called risk-free rate that does not exist or is that the market rate? It can be positive nowadays, but it can also be negative. You are in the future composing something, introducing it in the phase-out, which in my group's view is not necessary at all. If you assume that parties in such a situation will receive adequate compensation on civil law grounds, then there is no question of a situation being dealt with by the tax inspector. So does the Secretary of State. If nothing can be found about this in the Department of Finance, then you can, considering everything, and in order to avoid the idea of going against it, and there are all kinds of blockages in the settlement of the PEB, come to the conclusion that the gift tax is not appropriate at the moment. Then you give an exemption in the individual case. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u105	Following the reply of the Secretary of State and the very detailed answers to the First Chamber in the reply, I would like to confirm to the Secretary of State whether I have understood correctly. The Act phase-out pension in its own right gives the dga the choice to freeze or stamp. Stamping means that the commercial value of the pension obligation is stamped to the tax value. Then there are two possible variants: buy-back or convert into an old-age obligation. This has also been discussed in the Lower House. I understand from the answers that the partner renounces a conditional claim in the future at the time of the stamp. He's gonna have to sign in for that, too. That is why the question arose as to whether there was a donation. I have understood the answers in such a way that a distinction is made between the matrimonial property regime. In the situation of an overall community of goods, two thirds of cases still exist in the Netherlands, where there is no problem, because then it is fifty-fifty. In the situation of a prenuptial agreement with a final reciprocal settlement clause, there is no problem at the time of death or divorce as if there were an overall community of goods............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So all we're talking about is the situation of the other prenup. It seems to me right that the partner should then sit down with the dga and indicate that I have a conditional claim, depending on the uncertain event of the death of the dga or the divorce. It is not very pleasant at the time, but the partner must say: let us pretend to be divorced next year. The question then is what basis is being used to achieve appropriate compensation. That's what you put on paper. I understand from the Secretary of State that this can be done underhand, but you can also do it with the notary. Then you've arranged appropriate compensation for something that may never happen in the future. Should this occur in the future, you will return to the basis you have agreed with each other in the past. Did I get it that well? If you do so, if the appropriate compensation is really an appropriate compensation, it means that the partner and or the former partner in the financial sense gets what he or she should be getting, then there can be no donation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u106	That's how it is, expandingly, in the sense that you can make separate agreements about it. You could even refer to the case law that is common in the cases where the pension is still in existence. Then it's one sentence. You'll be out soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u107	I think that's enlightening. The problem of the gift tax is then minimized. In order to arrive at a situation with appropriate compensation, you must take care of it. If you don't take care of it, you run a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u108	That's independent of the gift tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u109	Yes, and accountants or other pension specialists are well skilled at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u110	Thanks for the clarification is entirely on my side and goes in the direction of Mr Van Rij. Several questions have been asked about greening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u111	I'm sure the Secretary of State won't be willing to do it, but there was a third question about self-employed pensions. I asked a question about the percentage in the first, second and third years. Can the Secretary of State still take these?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u112	That is certainly not deliberate! I'm going to answer the question memorized now. Mr Backer's concern is that all kinds of people will not be able, if I may paraphrase them, to make use of that rate of 34.5 already in the first year. Mr Backer asks whether it is conceivable that this percentage should continue for another year. I haven't been able to calculate quickly what it costs, but it will have to be covered. I think that's something I shouldn't be doing right now, because then we're gonna have to take cover for it now, and we're gonna be in the Upper House. The idea was that where it could be done, it could be done relatively quickly. Of course, there are always cases where people suddenly get a lot of cash and can still do it, but that is estimated to be a small percentage. It is not impossible either, but a subsequent cabinet will then have to take account of the fact that this percentage is being implemented for a second year. It is not something that can be done free of charge and what I can ride in during this period. The limited income of the self-employed pension is included in the Tax Plan. So if you offer an extra discount, you'll have to get someone else to pay extra taxes. We're past that stage. It's plausible to think it's an insecure number. It is, of course, a third of the people who can do that in the first year. It's an insecure number. If this is very disappointing, then at some point there will also be financial space to do so. That's the discount you give to people who haven't used it before. I can imagine it in a new cabinet, but I don't see this happening in this Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u113	The Secretary of State knows us as responsible, even when it comes to cover. We are dealing here with a yield that has been sleeping for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u114	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u115	It has been urged by this Chamber to wake up this dormant fairy, and suddenly revenue comes to the rich budget, much earlier than if it had been regularly booked by the reverse rule, it would be in ten to twenty years' time. It is highly uncertain how much use will be made of it. So the department made an estimate somewhere on the revenue side. Estimates of yields, as we all know, are very difficult to make. If we consider this to be a real point, it should not be at that point in time. When we look at the proposal, we see that it is actually a very limited procedure. If we really care about this, and that's why I come up with it, because I think it's a real point, let's try to increase the level of reality. Article IV states that the article will be replaced as from 1 January 2018 and thus amends the percentage from 34.5 to 25. It's very simple to make 18-19. It's one digit, it doesn't seem like a major procedure to change that. Two Cabinets have already been put forward with this arrangement, so that also does not have to hinder the Secretary of State. I would like to bring this to his attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u116	Mr Backer doesn't say it that way, but if I live in his concerns, it seems to go in his mind to make a much larger amount of money. I'm gonna test that, because I don't want to put words in his mouth either. It seems as if Mr Backer says: this is a revenue for the State of many billions, that is quite a lot to do with it. Isn't that what he's saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u117	No. I have, of course, looked at the amounts in the budgetary states, but no. It's cumulatively true, but it's not billions in the first year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u118	This first year is just coming in at 2 billion, but that is not the budget revenue. That's an amount that comes forward. The only thing we can use in the budget as a return is the difference made in cash and flattened in cash, which are the terms between what you would otherwise get in and what you are now getting in. That's only a limited yield. It is a very limited budget. The fact that the state treasury is suddenly filling up is another matter. In the budget it is a very limited amount. Suppose zero dgas would make use of it. It would be a pity if no one thought it was worth it. That would hardly affect the revenue for the Empire. The state finances do not depend on this percentage. That makes it less critical than I read in Mr Backer's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u119	Finally, Mr Backer on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u120	I am not so much concerned with our assessment of state finances and revenue. Of course, that's relevant, but it's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u121	... the position of the dga.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u122	Exactly, that's my concern!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u123	Mr Van Rij, then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u124	Thank you, Mr President. I support Mr Backer's speech. I have already done so with the written questions. In replying to these questions, the Secretary of State said that the cabinet is preparing the balance sheet at the beginning of 2018, because one has to report what one has done. It is then clear how often the buy-back option has been used. The State Secretary calculated that 36% of this buy-back will be used in 2017 and based itself on 2009 figures at the time it was 31 billion years old because those figures are not known afterwards. I would like to sum up with the Secretary of State and hope that sum has been made at the Ministry. Of course, I'm assuming so. I understand that with an income of about €34,000 for an older person it jumps to the marginal rate of 43%. Probably based on that 34% which he then has to pay on balance. How many of these DGAs are we going to have 148.000? Would there be an approximate pension payment of at least €25,000, at an AOW level of €11,000, but actually more? Of course, it becomes more attractive if you have a pension benefit of €30,000, €40,000, €50,000 or €60,000. You have to have a lot of pension capital for that and then you run into the point we were just talking about. As pension capital is higher, the discussion with the partner about the buy-back becomes much more difficult. In addition to what Mr Backer said, I therefore question the reality of the sale in 2017. Maybe the Secretary of State can give me more certainty about this and it turns out to be very solid calculations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u125	Mr Van Rij laughs because he knows that the solidity is not only limited by the age of the data, but also by the difficult predictability of behaviour. We have made predictions about the behaviour of dga's before and have sometimes been wrong. Here too, it's not easy to window. It is true that the amount included in the budget is not Mr Backer's concern, because that is mainly due to the abolition and not to the percentage of redemption. Of course, they're still estimates. I agree with Mr Backer that it is quite easy to change the number in itself at some point. You don't have to write a whole law; it's one number. I'm just saying I can't do that right now. It can go on at any time, because you're turning one number into a law. Mr Van Rij is happy to walk away. However, there is no reason for satisfaction, because I do not really understand his question. I'd like some explanation. He wants to know something about me. I would very much like to serve the Chamber, if necessary in the second term, but he needs to make something more clear about what he wants to know about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u126	I'll try. Let me keep it simple. Buying off is interesting if you can do that at 34%. Well, then you're gonna have to calculate what you're gonna pay for those retirement benefits in the future. Someone who has to pay 52% on pension benefits in the future will certainly make that sum. My point is that if you have to pay 52% on your pension, you have to have a very substantial retirement benefit on your own. In the example of the 52% you have to be above €66.000. In other words, how realistic is it actually that there are also DGAs in that 148 000 group that have such high pension benefits that this buy-back is really interesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u127	Can I paraphrase Mr Van Rij's question as follows? He asks whether the percentage of people who buy it is realistic, given that it might be less interesting for the dgas with less capacity to use it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u128	So you may indeed paraphrase it, taking into account the marginal pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u129	Let me see if I can say something sensible about that in a second term, if necessary. I had arrived at the questions about greening. Mrs Vos asked about the energy tax for large consumers. I think she asked that question during the General Financial Reviews. Apparently, my answer was unsatisfactory. If that's up to the content, I'd like to do it again. If we continue to have a different view, I do not know whether there is any point in re-answering the question. But if anyone asks a question again, I can always imagine that there was something unclear in the answer. I'd like to hear that from Mrs. Fox. I said last time that it plays a role in industries that can easily leave the Netherlands and that it represents a deterioration in competitiveness, whereas it is covered by the ETS regime and therefore does not substantially contribute to the CO reduction due to the leakage effect. If that is an unsatisfactory answer in substance, I would be happy to hear it and I may be able to restore it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u130	Perhaps I can explain it briefly. There is also a group of large consumers not covered by the ETS regime and participating in the joint realisation of climate goals in the Netherlands. In my opinion, it could indeed be effective for this group of companies when you say that you are going to pay a slightly higher levy and the entire revenue is being redirected back to you, but you have to put it into energy saving. My question was whether the Secretary of State wanted to look at it that way. That is another clarifying addition to the General Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u131	That is a clear addition, and I would like to answer it immediately. Of course, that's been looked at. It has been investigated in detail whether it is possible to return to such a limited group. This is a very limited group of companies that are not covered by the ETS regime and that would be more burdensome in Mrs Vos's proposal. A specific backlock is irrevocable state aid and should not be allowed to do so. So you have to reroute to a very broad group, but that basically means a burden increase for this particular industry that does not end up there via that backlock. That is the disadvantage of that proposal. That is why it was chosen not to do so at the time. Mrs Sent asked how the bill for loading posts fits in with the intention of reducing fiscal instrumentalism. That's a very nasty question, because it doesn't fit in there. It fits in with the cabinet's desire to carry out adopted motions as much as possible. This prevails in this case over the desire not to complicate the tax system. Her question is an excellent one, but the voters have taken a different view. Mrs. Vos is asking about homeloading. The big problem with home drawers, which has also been discussed in the House of Representatives, is that the electrons do not understand the difference between the washing machine and the car. This can lead to forms of fraud, for example, that people start washing instead of driving. Maybe someone thinks that doesn't matter for that electricity, so that still invites this kind of behavior. Mrs Vos says that we may have to use a maximum number of kilowatt hours. But, yes, that might be the wrong measure. The average electricity user in a house is a small one and the car is a big one. There are dozens of kilowatt hours in the battery. One tank is 25 to 50 washes. That ceiling doesn't do that much. A car like that is a power eater. Then there is no point in putting a ceiling on this. In addition, this instrument invites everyone to wash up to the maximum. That could still be a lot of washes, if you want a car to drive it. I don't see much in that. It amounts to €0.07 per kilowatt hour. It's not gonna kill us, but I want to make it as simple and insensitive as possible. Mrs Vos asks whether we should not make the rate clearer, because there are large differences in rates. That's a long way off my property. I am dealing with taxation, while rates are primarily for market players. If it were a department case, it would be EZ's. In this case, I will stick to the market players.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u132	Of course, the Secretary of State is right that it would belong more to EZ's colleague. My question is, in particular, whether the cabinet is prepared to do something about transparency. It is very unfortunate for the consumer that he does not know in advance what starting rate he should pay at such a post. Can the Secretary of State pass this question on to his colleague from Economic Affairs with the request to look at this again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u133	I'll ask the people I work with if the Formula E team can do anything with this. This is typically the party that talks about these things on behalf of and with market players. Those are also the people who can think in a very smart way about non-financial instruments to stimulate electric driving. Transparency could be one of those instruments. If I can put it there, it's where it should be. Mrs Vos is concerned about the export of electric cars and hybrids. It says in one sentence that it is a question of substantial exports and that environmental gains will then disappear. Both I do not believe in this case, if I may speak about it in reassuring terms. So far in 2016, not a percent of the hybrids and a small percentage of electric cars have been exported. In the numbers that appear here and there and which I also read, even in car magazines, Mrs Vos has now converted to the car magazines, as well as transit. There have even been loads of a specific brand that have become Dutch here for a while and then have been transferred to countries where there was a demand for those cars at that time. Those cars were never subsidised here and never really got on the road. They've been implemented, but they do show up in export statistics. The actual exports of hybrids and pure electric cars are much more limited. I agree with two speakers here in the Chamber that the environmental gains, at least the CO gains, have not disappeared. The climate is very low on borders. We've been asked about the Food Agenda. Mrs Vos's assumption that this subject is quite far from my agenda is correct. However, there is VAT in it, so look at it. Then you should say that a particular ingredient, animal protein or something, is treated differently in VAT than other ingredients. The home meal you buy or whatever should then be taxed with mixed VAT rates. For the IRS, that's gonna be a hopeless thing. Moreover, the question is whether this will create the cost difference that will stop people from eating meat. I don't eat the stuff myself, so I can't judge it, but I don't need a VAT difference not to eat it. I'm not the best counselor. This is a colossal measure in the implementation, which does not lead to an effect that I believe can be measured in the near future. So we should not start with that. Those who know VAT practice are even less ported, because we have made it quite complicated. Then I come to the link between the locational environment and tax avoidance. The reason it's mixed is because I sent a letter to the Chamber saying it's en-and. Yeah, I bet you do. It's and-and because it has to be and-and. The OECD work is high-quality work, a unique feature in fiscal history. The Netherlands has supported these OECD measures and we will implement them, including the hybrid and all kinds of transparency measures. At the same time, we also want jobs in the country. The locational environment is not only determined by taxation, absolutely not only, but also by it. We don't want to compete with anyone. We are not going to be the discounter of Europe. We don't take the lead in the price war. We do not even participate in a tariff fight at all, but we do want to remain attractive in a normal way. If we are not going to find all kinds of structures that we have been dubious but that have ever been attractive, then we must instead make the tax rate attractive in a different way. Mr Van Rij is a little impatient about that. He says, "Now we don't have any certainty." However, I say count your blessings, because a year ago this discussion did not exist in the public domain. At the offices where Mr Van Rij was walking, but not yet in these parts. Now the en-en policy is here. Mr Van Rij proposes 20% as the first step. I'm not gonna get in the way of anyone. I am not going to say anything about tariffs, but in all kinds of different documents and backgrounds, all of which are in the possession of the Chamber, there are opportunities to achieve ample rates alone, without having to deposit them with the private taxpayer. That is what we are doing, and that is why these issues are a little linked. That was Mr Van Rij's impatience, but we have not yet met Mrs Sent's impatience. She says: are we doing something now, is something really happening? I think that in this cabinet period against tax avoidance I will look at Mr Van Rij as a check, but it is only later that more has happened than in any similar period before. This is not all the Dutch Government's initiative, because we have been amply surfing the BEPS-OECD process, but a great deal has been done. We participated in the OECD, but we subsequently introduced the ATAD Directive under the Dutch Presidency. This is a world record in tax terms in the EU. This has been extremely rapid and strong measures have been taken in terms of transparency. We are talking about the exchange of rulings. You should have called that four years ago. Furthermore, there is country-by-country reporting between tax administrations. I would like to say something special about the multilateral instrument. That's a very clever thing. We have made all kinds of agreements on how to deal with treaties. That is what we incorporate into our treaty policy. Someone has said: what good is that, the multilateral instrument is doing exactly what Treaty policy is doing, and we are not getting anywhere with it. No, listen to me. In our Treaty policy, we are going to put this and this and this into treaties, and we are not going to agree anymore, and we are going to do so, because we are in favour of that. Then it takes years and years and years for you to adapt all about a hundred tax treaties. In some cases, this may take 10 years. That multilateral instrument is a global instrument with which all these agreements are made multilaterally all over the world. This means that we versus those other countries immediately and automatically see our treaties adapted. It's got to be reciprocal. If we're in something and the other one doesn't, it's not gonna happen. But if we're both in, it's settled from then on. It is an instrument to accelerate greatly the adaptation of these treaties. Here again, I have real respect for the OECD instruments. Well done! In our Parliament we have also seen things coming along, such as the exchange of rulings. At the beginning of this cabinet period we actively approached the 23 developing countries to include anti-abuse measures in the bilateral treaties. No other country did that to us, not one. We have not seen any other country do that. We have adapted our innovation box. Did the French do the same? No, they didn't. We do. We have done so and we have been given the stamp of approval that it is all proper to the rules. We have done the interest relief restrictions at the Vpb in all kinds of ways. The question was why we had to wait for Mr Nijboer's own-initiative paper. Now, it was. Alle égards for Mr Nijboer. The so-called Article 15ad has been made more robust. There again were clever roads found around and we neatly framed that. In the spirit of the note, the cabinet itself proposed a reduction in interest relief aimed at profit drainage, the so-called Article 10a. Then we also have all kinds of avoidance structures in box 2 and box 3. All in all, we have done a great deal. I have to see how much has been done in a cabinet period. Are we done? No, part of the OECD package is still there. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u134	The Secretary of State is extremely proud of everything he's done. That may be right, but I am also looking at what needs to be done in the Netherlands. In the whole policy of the empty letterbox companies, which should also be dealt with in the context of the MLI, my picture is now a pious statement that nothing actually happens to all these letterbox companies in the Netherlands at the moment. In the Lower House a motion has been tabled by the PvdA and GroenLinks asking for a number of concrete steps to be taken now, on the basis of a letter written by the State Secretary himself with different options. Why does the Secretary of State advise against that motion and why doesn't he want it? I cannot understand why he has not taken any concrete steps so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u135	The questioners who forced me into that letter did not ask how we could do anything against mailboxes or against tax avoidance. They have asked what substance requirements we can make. You can come up with all kinds of substance requirements. The question is: ""and it was also stated in that letter ""Why the road against tax avoidance via substance should lead." It is not a letterbox and it is not about substance, it is about treaty abuse. That's the point. If we think that a particular treaty can only be used by a substance company, we nail a letterbox to a real company tomorrow morning and then we have a substance company and then it goes on exactly like that. Substance is ultimately a padding agent. What matters is treaty abuse. We must therefore ensure that treaties are not abused. We have made agreements on treaties in the OECD context. The multilateral instrument implements exactly that. This must mean that mailbox companies are not being used in the wrong way and that our treaty network is not being used for what it is not intended for. That's what it's supposed to do. That's not substance. It's too easy to get around. In the end, it's not about substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u136	I can't follow this. What really matters is that there are all kinds of companies that only settle in the Netherlands because of an attractive fiscal environment, and there is absolutely nothing behind it, where no real economic activity takes place? That's substance. That's what we're trying to prevent, isn't it? So that's gotta stop, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u137	No. What is bothering us is not that there is an enterprise where not so much happens. What is bothering us is that our network of treaties is being used to defraud funds that should have been taxed there, but are now taxed there, where perhaps nothing is being taxed at all. That means that our treaty network is being used for something it's not meant for. If this is done by a batch without substance, we can make substance requirements. But tomorrow morning, when we have made substance demands, this happens suddenly by companies that also have substance. No problem at all: you take a factory, you nail a mailbox on it, then it has a substance and then it can also take advantage. The point is to prevent the abuse of treaties. That is the root of what is happening here and not the substance an sich. It's an apparition, but there are ten other forms to think of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u138	Finally, Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u139	Surely it is a question of a company that does not carry out any real economic activity in the Netherlands and is in fact simply an empty shell, here it is supposed to pay taxes on activities and therefore not have to pay taxes elsewhere? That is what is happening now, isn't it, and that's why it's really about the substance that ultimately has to be leading? The Secretary of State says it's only about treaty abuse, but in the end it's about preventing those kind of empty letterbox companies from settling in at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u140	The problem we have with mailboxes isn't that they're empty. The problem we have with mailboxes is that they're abusing the treaty network. It's not like they pay a dime in the Netherlands in exchange for.... That doesn't have anything to do with it. What it has to do with is that somewhere there's going to be a stream of money flowing through the Netherlands, using the treaty network, and going somewhere it doesn't belong. That's the problem. There is a great social outrage about that. Mrs Vos has, quite rightly, a problem with tax evasion in other countries using our treaty network, but I am sure she has as much problem with it as is done by a letterbox company as by a real firm. If a real firm gets the money that belongs here, it's just as bad. It saves that country just as much tax. And it's just as much for whoever's in Bermuda and has an advantage there. It doesn't matter. The shape of the link is irrelevant, the transaction we want to fight. Substance does not intervene in the transaction, but in the form. That is why I say: what does work is to combat treaty abuse. We are doing this through, among other things, the very fast and truly intelligent implementation of the multilateral instrument; dealt with at once. I once saw a previous president of the NOB on the front page of the FD. He said that he expected the problem of mailboxes, but that is actually the problem of transit, to come to an end in the Netherlands. I agree with that person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u141	I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he now argues that practices such as those of Google in 2014, which I mentioned, are now impossible due to the rapid introduction of various measures in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u142	Let me be honest. The honest answer is that I cannot talk about individual taxpayers because I do not know their tax position. The formal answer is that I can't either, because that's what the law says. So I'm not doing that. I'm not going into individual cases. What we see is that Dutch treaties are used for things we never intended them for. With the anti-Treaty abuse measures, that will disappear from the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u143	By when?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u144	Well, we're gonna see. The multilateral instrument exercise is now underway. The Netherlands has ticked generously, I can say. The Netherlands really wanted to stick to the OECD framework and we participated in what we want to do. Sometimes the land on the other side has been less generous in ticking. We could talk to them about that. This also needs to be discussed at OECD level. But the Netherlands participates generously. And I've never really succeeded in predicting the future. Several proposals came along. Mr Van Rij asks what I think of the CCCTB and CCCTB. That's what he was able to read in the chip. The answer won't surprise him. The essence of the answer is that the cabinet is indeed not positive about this at all. Nor is it from the OECD at all. It is also not a measure that is identifiable as a measure that could be aimed at preventing tax avoidance. We don't recognize that in there. It's a huge operation for the IRS, but it's unclear why it would help. Where it would be useful to harmonise tax avoidance on specific points, we have shown that we have done so in the past. So where it is useful, because it somehow prevents circumvention, we have shown in several areas of legislation that there is no objection to it. The same question has been asked about the hybrid proposal. That proposal will come from the OECD. In addition, it is stated in the OECD that the country of residence is to be lifted. So that's what we have to wait for. In many cases, that's America. We are in favour of implementing this legislation. We also think it fits in with the OECD. We also endorsed the OECD. But the Americans must be given a proper opportunity, in accordance with the OECD spirit, to adapt their legislation in this respect. Furthermore, we are of course also obliged to the parties who used this construction at the time. Times change. That also means that once this can end, but you can't just pull the tablecloth out of it. You have to give parties a reasonable perspective of action and some time to adjust to a different tax reality. That is why we have asked for a postponement, but it is no different from that. We have not asked for exceptions, as other countries have. We just asked for a meaningful delay. We have expressed our firm support for this proposal, explicitly as part of the en- en-policy, where action must be taken at the same time in the fiscal environment. Mr Backer asks a question which he must ask, otherwise we risk no one asking him. He asks if I agree that there is a need for more Europe. The answer is "sure." It doesn't have to be done, and the CCCB proposal also proves, by a total basic reform, and certainly not in that way. It is true that if we want to act together against tax avoidance, it has proved itself, also with the ATA package, that we as Europe and at European level can do so in a very productive way. What we have seen is that the European decision-making machine is not always working fast. But in the field of taxation we have broken a few records. So the answer is yes, but not specifically in relation to the CCCTB. Mrs. Vos asked why the innovation box is actually there and why that box should stay. Shouldn't we get rid of it? The innovation box serves two objectives. Firstly, it is a measure in the context of the locational environment. To avoid making your Vpb fare attractive or need to change across the board, an innovation box allows you to become much more specific to innovative activities. Firstly, they are much easier to move between countries and, secondly, they have a much larger spillover. It is therefore attractive to do not generic but specific to the Vpb tariff. That's what the innovation box does. Furthermore, it promotes innovation from already established companies here. The CPB says that the innovation box is effective and efficient along both lines. We have had to bring the innovation box into line with the new regulation, which we have faithfully done, for which we have been given our stamp. That has been done in a proper way as far as I am concerned. That means that the size is getting a little bit more limited, but the thing is getting better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u145	Does the Secretary of State consider that the innovation box is the best measure to stimulate innovation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u146	I say there are two goals. If you look at each of the targets separately, there are undoubtedly measures that can compete well, but this instrument is aimed at both. If we want not only to stimulate innovation but also to look at the locational environment, the innovation box comes out effectively in the evaluation of the CPB. Well, I think that's telling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u147	The CPB has also calculated that a euro tax revenue will only generate €0.54 in additional R&D expenditure. That's just not right, is it? How can you consider that effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u148	First of all, I think we should not compare a transfer tax with an investment in R&D. In addition, the two objectives have been considered in conjunction. In this context, the CPB provides the predicate "effective'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u149	Finally, on this point. There's gonna be a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u150	I refer to the nexus breach in the OECD context. An innovation expenditure can still be multiplied by a factor of 1.3, which amount can then be subtracted. Honestly, I'm surprised. Why is the Secretary of State not in favour of saying: you can deduct whatever you invest in innovation, but nothing more, so 1.0 instead of 1.3?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u151	The total fracture is maximized to 1. If you have a specific edition, a factor 1.3 is applied, because there may be business reasons to spend innovation work within the group for any reason. So there's a 30% margin in it. But the total fracture is maximized to 1. This factor 1.3 cannot therefore lead to more benefits in the innovation box than the overall benefits resulting from innovation. Finally, I have been asked to comment on our several times mentioned third place on the Oxfam ladder. Honestly, I didn't get crushed by it when it came to equalization and deepening. A lot of different things have been looked at. On the basis of none of these criteria, I can conclude that we should be there. The global Vpb average is 23%, while we are at 25%. Actually, well documented and proven, we are at the forefront of information exchange, one of the key criteria. We are the only country in the world that has moved away from the 23 developing countries to make agreements with them on treaties. We participate in the UBO register, we have substance requirements as one of the few countries, which was an effective tool in the early days of the letterbox companies. By the way, I have just explained that this was not sacred. We modified the innovation box. We are accused of not having a dividend tax, but that is incorrect. The tax that is evaded in the US via the savings bank-on-sea construction is wrongly attributed to the Netherlands. So there's a lot to note. I don't want to do a very big study on that. We've done more than ever, and the work isn't done yet. The discussion about box 3 is never finished. It is a wonderful example of what is called reflection and a solid debate on the other side. For part of society, the capital efficiency tax is one of the two most hated taxes in our entire system, because it is, in the eyes of many people, a tax on something on which tax has already been paid. Another part of society finds that she reads thick books there about the fact that power is undertaxed. You can talk about that for a long time. Economists consider the capital efficiency levy to be economically efficient. The cabinet has opted for an intermediate model, in which market returns are followed. Is that totally satisfying? No, because it adapts slowly. Granted, it's a step. As market returns change, those rates will also change every year. The CDA is proposing to speed this up by taking a big step now. I'm gonna have to ask the CDA for cover. It's a common procedure, isn't it? And I also have a substantive question about it. With some understanding I listened to Mr Van Rij, who at the time opposed the reduction of the tax rebate in box 1, but in exactly the same speech he then introduced a reduction in box 3. It doesn't make it any easier, and it's not easy to do. We're working on options. Additional questions have been asked about the three options. In fact, the House of Representatives has asked for an option that can be even faster and does much more justice to the returns made in the market. Mr Van Rij asked whether the transfer to the surcharges could not be turned off. It's going to be very complicated in terms of implementation. We must then apply one of the different assessment income for a certain supplement. That's not gonna happen soon. I made a promise to Mr Köhler last year. He said at that time: I see that the property is subject to a flat-rate rate, taking account of the increase in value, but not yet with any revenue from the operation. That's right. I said I was going to think about whether and how you should do that. If you want to do this on the basis of real returns, we simply cannot do so, because then we have to collect and calculate all the rentals that are privately collected. Then you get all kinds of gross net trajectories, which is impossible. I think Mr Köhler will agree with me. Standard rate quickly gives it a great feeling of dishonesty, because a large part of the owners of real estate in box 3 does not rent at all. You get great discussions then, because a minority rents out and you then have to go into resources all over the population. I can see those discussions. The fact that the intermediate model doesn't fit well with the market returns already leads to a big riot, but this would be a fantastic hitch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u152	Is the Secretary of State still going to talk about lifting on the basis of real profitability and how he looks at this? Has that point already passed or is that still coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u153	I think it's wise to ask that question... Oh, I'll get to that! I shall certainly come to that budgetary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u154	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u155	I will have to find out with Mr Van Strien whether I interpret that question properly, but we will find a way out of that. I think Mr Köhler would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u156	I would like to come back to the last point before Mr Van Strien's interruption. The Secretary of State said that if you add the reduced rental value, the rental income that may not exist, to the return, that would seem very unfair. I wonder why. Even if you don't rent out your second apartment but use it yourself, there's an economic value to that, right? Isn't the first apartment also worth a rent? You also live in that house, but still the rental value will be charged. Why can't we do that at the second place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u157	Does Mr Köhler's proposal also support the possibility of a mortgage interest subsidy for the second house?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u158	On that point, I agree with the Secretary of State's line, namely that the far too ferocious proposals should be discussed next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u159	Okay, we'll make a deal. Next year, Mr Köhler and I will be discussing ferocious proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u160	Do you think it's possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u161	Yeah, I'm a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u162	...to be ready by 7:30?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u163	I'm gonna try that really hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u164	Otherwise, I'm gonna get the kitchen on my neck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u165	I'm gonna try very hard. Mr Köhler felt that the tax on capital was too low. This is mainly because we do not tax our own home, which is also capital, and pensions. That is the main cause and there is quite a support for it. May I interpret Mr Van Strien's question as follows: have I designed the interim proposal for 2017 in such a way that there will be no budgetary loss? Can I say that so popularly? I think that's what he really wanted to know. The 2017 proposal, of course, means that it can also cost money in the longer term. It adapts slowly, but irrevocably. There comes a period where there are much lower efficiency years in the average and then it yields less. The same applies to this system. In the very long term, it will probably be a zero effect again, because the CPB still says that the interest rate forecast for the very long term is higher again than it is now. In each variant, also in the current one, the returns will go down first and we will face a slightly higher volatility in the long term. We're gonna have to accept that. If we want the return we charge to have more to do with the really enjoyed return, we will be stuck with more volatility and we will know mid-term flings. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u166	Can I interpret the State Secretary's reply in such a way that volatility has played no part in the consideration of choosing this system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u167	Yes, I do. It has clearly been communicated in the documents that the people involved in the budget, too, have been reluctant to see it becoming more volatile. That's not an advantage, it's a disadvantage. Nevertheless, the cabinet has said that it seems useful to have the lake refurbished. In doing so, the cabinet has accepted volatility, albeit somewhat dampened by a smoothing mechanism in order to avoid excessive shocks. But in essence, it's springing along. It's no different. That's what we're gonna have to live with. Mr Van Rij did an interesting thought experiment. He said: I like the execution test very much; take the execution test of the DBA Act and see what it was like. He's actually saying we can test it. Can I sum it up like that? The implementation test of the DBA Act was still old school. That wasn't the new execution test at all. But let me continue the thought experiment. What would have happened if we had taken the new execution test before that and now put it next to it? In all honesty: I don't want to pretend to be more silly than I already am, but it runs into the framework of work and specifically on the concepts. The labour lawyers I had at the table for the design didn't see that. It wasn't in the ibo. This point did not come up in the ibo. The partners with whom I started doing this and who are certainly not retarded have not seen this point either. We ran into this. There's only one way to do this. We all know that in the event of changes in society, things happen in between. We need to stop for a while, take care of the place and fix it. It's only after that that we can continue. We probably wouldn't have exposed this point. A long list of risks has been considered, but unfortunately we have not encountered this risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u168	That surprises me to a great extent. I also appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State is very transparent and open in his reply. We're used to him. That issue of civil law relating to labour law was made precisely during the proceedings in this Chamber. This led to the Secretary of State's undertaking to set up the Boot Committee. Anyway, it was clear from the outset that the answer to whether something is an employment contract or a contract for a contract is very dependent on the specific circumstances of the case. This is particularly casuistic and there is a great deal of case law in the civil courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u169	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u170	I am very surprised that this has not been recognized at all by the advisers of the Secretary of State, if I may translate it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u171	There was another problem on the table, namely the great desire, certainly of this Chamber, not to let civil and fiscal divide. That's what the big discussion was about. There was no reason for that at the time. We have, after all, concluded similar agreements in the care sector, in which there was no tension between them. That went well. They worked with it to their satisfaction. It's been some kind of test case. We didn't see any reason to break up those two schematics. Honestly, Professor Boot advises you to do the right thing. If you have to make the one irrevocable, it's only a question of keeping those two schemes equal. That question is still on the table and I do not yet have an answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u172	Honor to all who deserve credit. Colleague senator Rinnooy Kan is not present now, but he has warned about this in this Chamber. Also with reference... However, I also appeal to his colleagues in the political groups. He did warn us about this. I find it unsatisfactory, but we are now where we are. The Secretary of State will not take the execution test. I understand that, but what he will do is completely unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u173	The employment framework needs to be looked at carefully. There are two things in that. Firstly, there is a social debate about where the border lies. There are all kinds of things in the definition from 1907, of which we are now wondering whether they actually apply. What we found at the time was an employment contract, do we still think so? That question came up in its full width after the summer. Secondly, the clarification. But I think the first question might be the most important one. We seem to have a social problem with that. Honor to whom credit is due; I have said that before. We have been warned about uncertainty and that has all come true, period! I won't take a word off that. But the proposal, also from the party that has just been mentioned, was to allow the VAR to exist and to be strictly enforced along the current framework. We'd have had the same thing. I have always said that enforcement at the time of the VAR was very complicated, but that belief was not widely shared. If we were gonna do that, we'd have crashed into this, too. Then we'd have started to enforce, and then we'd all have declared people falsely self-employed. Those people would have said, "I, false self-employed? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. We would have had exactly the same discussion. That frame no longer fits and pinches. We have to do something about that. In addition, I would say that the images on this subject are still quite different in the broad sense. I think that's gonna be quite a conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u174	The Secretary of State looks back on the past, including the ibo and other issues, and says: we have all not given proper consideration to the civil law aspect. But that's not so weird, is it? The problem had nothing to do with the question of what a contract of employment is, or with labour law or employment. The whole legislation is linked to it, including pension legislation. Now there will be another discussion about the self-employed. I do not know whether we will get into the boat or fall between shores. I think it is quite a bold approach to say that we are calling into question the whole of employment and labour law because we have a problem with enforcement around bogus constructions. I have the feeling that we may very soon be throwing away the baby with the bath water by saying that in the coming months we are probably going to look at the whole labour law because of this other discussion, which, moreover, is mainly fiscal because the regime is far too attractive. I would like to warn that we should not rush into the concept of "worker" and labour law, otherwise the whole pension building will also fall into the risk sector. That is not something we have even thought about, just as much as the civil aspect of this problem was not considered in the ibo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u175	I have to agree in a perhaps wonderful way with almost all the speakers, including Mr Van Rooijen. I would first like to join with Mr Van Rij and the efforts of the D66 Group at the time that there is quite a reason to think about this. If there is widespread unrest about what is called a "self-employed person" and what is not, the acceptance of that difference is the basis of this whole enforcement. So we're gonna have to look at that in a hurry. We cannot say: the law is from 1907 and it is unchanged; you should do it with it. It's wise to look at it. At the same time, it is true that now I agree with Mr Van Rooijen that it is quite something. In the Lower House I got a motion late in the evening or we don't... That's going very fast, because there's a lot of things going on with it. Not only does acceptance play a role, but it must also be defined. It is not just a question of how to maintain that, but also of what that means for the labour market. Those are very important things. There can be whole migrations from an employment to independence or vice versa. You can wish that, you can mean that and there will be arguments for that here and there, but all of that needs to be looked at carefully. We have a long tradition of this kind of thing here. We go through a process very carefully with everyone. I think it is useful to involve the entrepreneurs, but also the contractors in this case. Not only the classical polder parties should be involved, but also the contractor-client relationships. We have to do this very carefully. There's a lot of pressure on it; it's got to be in some hurry. We really need it in formation, but it's not a little thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u176	Mr. Chairman. I want to join...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u177	Mr. Backer...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u178	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u179	I'm saying I'm going to suspend at 7:30 anyway. If the Secretary of State isn't ready, he'll continue after dinner if necessary. But I'll suspend at 7:30 anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u180	I was gonna make it quick. Under this threat, I will certainly do so. I would like to echo the last words of the Secretary of State, namely that this must be done very carefully. This is also a merit of the debate we are having today. Mr Van Rij also brought it up, and rightly referred it to Mr Rinnooy Kan. The Secretary of State admits that things should have been different. I appreciate that. He says he could and should have talked to several parties about this. I think this is in line with the question I asked in the first term. There are three elements in taxation and a new tax system: labour law, taxation and social insurance. That's all three of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u181	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u182	Apart from each other, this cannot be solved, is my firm conviction. I want to make sure that we try to do this quickly, before 7.30 p.m. It can't be. But it has to be with these three.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u183	Yes. The only small and morbid movement I shall make in relation to this speech, but the only one, is that it should not be suggested that I have not spoken to anyone about it. I think I have talked about this all over the world, even before the proposal. I cannot agree with Mr Backer more than I do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u184	Mr Van Rooijen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u185	Very briefly. I understand that the Secretary of State is willing to take all the time he needs to do so carefully. I'd like to hear that confirmed if necessary. If the Secretary of State is going to consult with partners, given labour law and social legislation, does he want to involve the pension sector? If it goes from self-employed to employees or vice versa, the whole pension system is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u186	The driver on this transport is the Minister of SZW. He's got the pensions under his control. He won't let this slip away from his attention. Honestly, I'm waving somewhere along the side of the road. Labour law is really an SZW exercise. I need to make sure that the outcomes are enforceable. That's my involvement. I welcome Mr Van Rij's attention. I myself made it a very big point during the presidency to introduce a software tool that will solve carousel fraud throughout Europe. There is as much as 50 billion in carousel fraud across Europe. The proceeds of such fraud are used for the most hideous purposes. That is why I am very concerned. I can't bring the 10% home right away. That is an EU number, but there are also all kinds of exemptions and all kinds of things that are definitely not evasion or avoidance. But the Netherlands is one of the three forerunners in the field of tackling carousel fraud and has now received a lot of countries. We need to tackle this form of fraud at European level. It has been asked whether the fictitious employment for non-executive directors can be involved in the presentation of the Tax Plan next year. On this point, I say so. Mr Backer asked a question about the labour market. The best answer comes from himself. It is the elements that need to be considered. Ideally, not only the wage and self-employed must be taken into account, but also the dga. The interrelationships are important. The elements of this will soon be on the table. We've got all the ibozzp. Soon we will also have the proposals to review that framework. We're really gonna have to deal with that. I would like to keep the Chamber informed of the streamlining of the entry into force through the six-month reports. I confirm that it is very desirable to have the herd register on its feet when streamlining, and especially the set-aside, begins. Whether that is not possible at all, I cannot predict exactly yet, but there is a very firm ambition because we believe that the settlement of debt relief cases can only be properly arranged with such a record. Otherwise, you don't know if you're gonna break the record. There is certainly that aim, but we need to make it a little bit dependent on how it goes. Mrs Sent of the Labour Party spoke about the bankers and the tax advisers. I'm not a tax advisor, and I never will be. I'm not a banker either, and I never will be. Nevertheless, I feel extremely addressed. Mrs Sent mentioned the failure of neoliberalism. And here I am, the neoliberal. I recognize that; that's me. But then one small thing: neoliberals do not agree that banks should pass their risks on to society and also neoliberals think that companies should simply pay taxes in accordance with the law. Let me make this statement from the neoliberals. Furthermore, not so much the approach to circumvention, but rather the approach to circumvention, i.e. the Panama Papers, will have to include measures to ensure that intermediaries play the right role. I have said about this before: not everything that is allowed is useful. Mrs Vos asked a question about the landlord tax, but that is far beyond my domain. This measure does not concern regular taxation and falls within the policy area of the Minister for Housing and National Service. So I'm gonna have to try this on. Mrs Vos wants to limit the 30% regime for expatriates. Here's what we can say. "The 30% scheme," that sounds like a kind of gift for people who come from elsewhere, like some kind of favorable arrangement to spawn someone. Of course, that's not the idea. The primal form of this is simply a compensation scheme designed to bring the worker from another country, the expatriate, into an equal position with a Dutch employee. He is compensated for costs that the Dutch employee does not have. It's no more than that. Costs are identified which are eligible and which are therefore reimbursed, and others which are not eligible. Because it was so complicated, it was made into a 30% scheme. There's nothing against asking you once in a while if that percentage is still right. We're gonna see that; it's being evaluated now. In essence, that arrangement has a strong basis in logic. That's why I'm really defending her. It is a question of putting two types of workers in an equal position. It's a flat-rate variant of that. It's got nothing to do with a gift. The scheme shall be evaluated. The evaluation will be completed in the first half of 2017. Then we'll see if the scheme is still in place. I have noted with pleasure that several Members have read the VVD election programme in full. They have also read that we must keep open the possibility of receiving the blue envelope for people who can't live without it. That's also standing policy. We have chosen to arrange it for people who can make it plausible that they can't live without that envelope, with customized solutions. There are several tens of thousands of these people. By the way, I sometimes hear on the street that the blue envelope would have disappeared, but that is far from the case. It goes one step at a time. The entire route takes about five to seven years. So it's gonna be a while before the blue envelope is out. But it's standing policy to give people who really have trouble with it a way to get to know their tax position. The Christian Union wishes to be confirmed that the evaluation of the start-ups scheme also looks at the impact on the innovative start-ups. I hope I say it that well. The answer is: yes, sure. What are the lessons that the Secretary of State has learned about the cabinet formation, at least I think that the question is: about this cabinet period? Why can't we implement bold fiscal policies? Mr Ester may put this question. I'm gonna say it again. There was a time when there was a great sense of urgency at the spokesperson level that this had to be done and that there was great support for it. But then it was scaled up to group chairman level. That already made it a lot harder to stay with. The Christian Union has done so. Several parties have remained at the table until the last moment and have indicated their interest. Eventually there weren't enough stuffed chairs at the table and we didn't get there. The lessons from that are the following. The first lesson is: of course, there are always complicated things in it. We like to talk about "life-form neutral taxes" for example, but we all mean something else. So there are also essential questions in it. There is, I think, almost no subject on which you can debate each other in such a political-philosophical way. You can therefore differ on very, very important issues. Do we have a society with households or with individuals? It's just, we're not getting out of there tonight. The second lesson, the biggest one for me, is funny enough in the letter as well. Any possibility of letting this go by is a missed opportunity. That's what I keep saying. But any attempt you don't make to try is also a missed opportunity. I feel compelled and obliged to put as many simplification and reform measures as possible on the table each time and to talk about the need for simplification and reform every time. That's true by now. My big lesson is that in the public domain, you have to shoot the target ten times before the ball is in there once. I'm willing to shoot 10 times, or 20 times. It is now in a very large number of election programmes, in which the spokesmen have probably also been involved. That's another base. It just has to be! I don't give a shit about calling it nine times for nothing. I don't really care. I wasn't raised to function in politics. I'm an energy engineer; I do earn my living. But I'm sitting here now trying to make it work nine, ten or twenty times. We all know that someday it'll work. That's what the Netherlands is like. After all, all things have succeeded in the end. For example, the change in retirement age has been successful, as has all the other things we've wanted for years. That speaks for politics. We hear it ten times and eventually we think: now it has to be. Then I'd be happy to be the one who yelled nine times. I don't care if someone else shoots the ball in a tenth time. I don't care because I have to! Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u187	This is a good time to suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u188	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u189	I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 8:30. After that, I assume you'll have another chance to speak. Or were you finished already?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u190	Well, short at most. I'm just gonna think about if it's really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u191	Okay, we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u192	I see the Secretary of State very actively ready to get to work. I am therefore happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u193	Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be very brief. GroenLinks and the SP asked about the purchasing power development during the cabinet period. Mrs Vos has been so helpful in showing me a very precise sentence in which a claim is made by the cabinet. I also looked up the table. That is indeed another table. Köhler had that table. Let me outline the dilemma of the two speakers, which makes the answer easier to understand. The table shows that in the lower quartile there is a policy effect of 0.9% and in the upper one a policy effect of 1.9%. Hey, that's out of balance. What's going on out there? Isn't that the policy effect of Rutte II de-levelling? That's the question. Look, these are medians. What's the median? That's just the middle one. In every quartile there is a middle; that is one person in the Netherlands. I didn't write his zip code, but there's one center. Upstairs and below that center, very different things can happen. These figures are therefore not at all suitable for assessing the de-levelling or levelling nature of the policy. That's what you do with the gini. Before the gini you basically look at everyone. You put them all together, in order, and then you see to what extent they deviate from a straight line. In other words, to what extent there is distortion. And that shows that the gini coefficient has fallen by 1.5%. It has thus become more equal as a result of the policy. That's the answer, but for that, you have to be pretty much a statistician. A number of questions have been asked about the Tax Office. From the Tax Story I have a version of half an hour, a version of an hour and a version of three hours, but I would like to embrace Mr Backer's suggestion that we have a separate discussion with the senators concerned. I can then explain where the Tax Administration is going, what is going well in that and what is going wrong, because there are also irreversible errors. Something very serious went wrong the other day, by the way. I would like to explain all this, including the images that exist behind the scenes. In particular, Mr Backer asked about the people working on the DBA assessment. They're wage-earners. Those are notzzp'ers or people who have used the departure scheme. We can't, because we have an anti-turning door policy. Only temporary front office is partly manned by temporary workers. Mr Backer also asked how the National Ombudsman's report ended. The National Ombudsman has made a number of recommendations. First of all, he said that we understand digitisation, but there are people who can just get into trouble because they really have no other way of getting to know their tax position than through the envelope. How long will these people be there, the Ombudsman could not say either. There's customization for people like that. Some tens of thousands of people have registered for that customization. Secondly, the Ombudsman said that we still need to find ways to further increase the network. There is a very large network of hundreds of service providers and organisations, from trade unions to elderly organisations, helping people with their declarations. This has existed since time immemorial, and of course it is going digitally, because it can also help people at a distance. However, there was also a desire to involve people in this digitisation and to regard the Tax Administration as a kind of precursor, which can also play a leading role. That's why all libraries have been contacted. So these libraries are now helping to "digitalize" older people in particular, but in principle of all taxpayers. They can visit the library for a course or for using the computer. This will ensure that the Tax Administration, which is at the forefront here, has some sucking power on people, who may become digital in other areas. I still have a number of other questions, two of which are on self-employed pensions. Mr Van Rij's question is quick to ask: is it attractive and for whom is it attractive? There are a lot of individual profiles, so it is so modelled that there are all kinds of groups created with a specific profile. A kind of weighting factor has been given to this. It is modelled on that, but there are assumptions about what these groups look like. These are all things you have to assume, such as the age, life expectancy, age and age expectations of the partner, the retirement date, interest rate developments, future tax rates and so on. Everyone makes other assumptions in that regard. That is what comes out of it for whom it is attractive, but the general answer is not given here. If it were very simple, Mr Van Rij would have no work either, because precisely because of this complexity, his profession has added value. Mr Van de Ven asks me to reflect once again on the two judgments. It is the absolute conviction of the specialists at the Tax Administration that these specific judgments are separate from this issue. The view that there is sometimes a donation is based on the general principles that apply when determining a donation in the context of the gift tax: impoverishment, enrichment or pre-emption purpose. Those are the elements that play a role in determining donation taxes. According to the specialist lawyers at the Tax Office, the two judgments have no role in this. Mrs Sent asked when there would be a good evaluation of the BOR (company follow-up scheme). The situation was assessed in 2014. At that time, the cabinet had to establish that this evaluation was based on very limited data. Mrs Sent just said it nicely, but from her facial expression I made it clear that she did not faint from the persuasiveness of the evaluation. So if we do another evaluation, it is important that this happens properly. EZ is now collecting the data. The evaluation is now foreseen in 2019. We should not start an evaluation again without the right figures, because then we will not have what we want. The stakes are therefore that we first look for the data in more depth. This also means, for example, that you have to make the decision whether or not the continuation and continuity of the company with different variants of the BOR would be guaranteed. For that kind of reflection, the numbers are missing. So now it's about the collection of the numbers. The evaluation is foreseen in 2019. It's done by EZ. There was an important question from Mr Ester. I was hoping to be able to answer that earlier. He asks me to respond to the responses to the report of the Court of Auditors. The General Court of Auditors was, unlike the press reports, somewhat surprised at the fact that the tax administration has set up enforcement policies. That's important, because there's been a turnoff. We're going to maintain risk-driven in a whole new setup. It's not the same as it was in the past. It does not happen with simple samples but with very extensive data analyses, to see where there is risk. On the basis of the positive opinion, the Court says: knowing that you can shift your attention from individuals to, for example, large companies. That's true, of course. It is not denied in the cabinet response either. However, it is important that we do not take everyone away too easily from private individuals. That's really not good for tax morals. On the contrary, the Court of Auditors says that we should not only unilaterally focus on revenue, but also pay attention to visible, tax-morality-enhancing activities. It would not be helpful if I were to send a letter stating that we would only focus on large companies in future. So, in the trend, I fully endorse the risk-driven call from the General Court, but we have to be reasonable and make sure that we are still visible. Otherwise, things could go wrong fast. That is actually what that remark means. It said "not fully take over"; but shortened? The letter might have been a little less brief. That would have been a bit frowning here and there. Now I'm through the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u194	I may have missed it, but I thought I had not yet received an answer to my questions about the Nibud study on chronically ill and disabled people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u195	That's absolutely true. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u196	Can you give that answer in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u197	Yeah, I'm sorry. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u198	I hesitated for a moment, but I actually have the same question as Mr Köhler. I do not have an answer to the question about the savings return of 1% on savings accounts up to a tonne with a maximum capacity of up to one and a half tonnes. I missed that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u199	Then you have to put it as a question, because this is a statement. You need to help me with what you want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u200	I will ask the question again in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u201	I thank the Secretary of State. Now we have reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u202	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive first-term reply and also for the answers he gave to the interruptions. In the second period, I should like to limit myself to a number of points. The first is the VAT hole. The Secretary of State has explained that we want to give this priority at least in the Netherlands. He also explained that VAT carousel fraud at European level was a very serious problem and that he was very keen on it at one of the last Ecofin meetings. The extent of this fraud is apparently unknown. In this sense, I would ask the Secretary of State to ask the European Commission, in particular, about the recent calculations for our own country. This is not just about fraud, but also about opportunities that we do not want to see, so the whole issue of tax avoidance, which is now very much focused on the tax on profits. We support the Secretary of State if he wants to broaden and deepen that with regard to VAT. I am sure we will be able to talk about this later. In the first period, I did not mention a very specific point, but I did deal with it in the written questions. This concerns the VAT charged to some pension funds. This happens in situations where pension fund and pension administrator are not in a fiscal unit. The Supreme Court delivered a judgment on this matter last Friday. I do not want to talk about this for long and in substance, simply because I have not yet read the judgment. I would ask the Secretary of State to send a letter to the Chamber, taking into account the Oomen motion on this subject which has been adopted in this Chamber. He can say: the Tax Administration has won and that is the end of the matter. I understand from the other answers of the Secretary of State that he always looks closely at the case law, both when he wins and when he loses. So perhaps the Secretary of State can come back to that judgment of the Supreme Court, especially in relation to the Oomen-Oomen motion that lies here. As far as I am concerned, we do not need to go into the substance of this. Now I come to international fiscal policy. I have already said in the first term that I was pleased with the answers given by the Secretary of State. He has made it very clear that it is really an en-en policy. I would like to say this once again to Mrs Vos in particular, with all due respect to her political views on this matter, that the Netherlands must also count its blessings. Sometimes I get the feeling that the Secretary of State here is going wrong, of course, with this metaphor, a little bit of the child in the family is that it never does well at this point. In this metaphor is the Secretary of State for the Netherlands: we never do well. It really isn't. I say that also because the Secretary of State asked me indirectly whether anything has changed over the past four years. I can say here with full conviction that the issue of tax avoidance has never been discussed as much as in the last four years and that there have never been so many concrete measures taken to combat tax avoidance. I even want to go so far as to give credit to the Secretary of State, and through the Secretary of State, to his party, that he was the first to do so in December 2012. I agree with the Secretary of State that this is not the end of the story, because part of the OECD package is now being implemented, but it needs to be implemented further. I think it is also a good thing that the Netherlands is not constantly doing a form of self-tasting at that point, but that the Netherlands can also say proudly what it does and what it is good at. Of course, I agree with the Secretary of State and Mrs Vos that situations of outright fraud, of empty mailbox companies or of abuse of tax treaties will have to be eradicated with root, because they are bad for the image of the Netherlands. But we must continue to make a distinction, because there are also situations that are good. Not everything is wrong on this point, I will say to Mrs Vos once again. I have tried to control my impatience a little in my life, but the Secretary of State compliments me on this point or a reproach. He says: Mr Van Rij is so impatient, because he wants the VPB rate to go to 20%. I dose my impatience these days. I hope I learned that. But between the lines I hear the Secretary of State doesn't have the courage to say it, but can I still put it in his mouth? I would like to say that the Secretary of State actually agrees that the rate should be 20%. Those are the steps we need to take. So let us take a look at what happens after the elections, because this cabinet period is not going to work anymore, that is my impression. I'll be on box three. However, I am sensitive to the arguments of the Secretary of State and of a number of fellow senators. They have said that my proposal on doubling the exemption in the current box 3 to meet the small savers might be complicated if you want to cut the exemption after €100,000. You can also keep it very simple: you double the exemption. As far as I am concerned, this period is simply very short; no longer than a year. I prefer to see that the Secretary of State makes a choice of three variants. The Secretary of State has submitted a selection document to the House of Representatives. The CDA fraction has a preference for variant C. The Secretary of State has heard this in the Lower House and he now hears it in the Upper Chamber. Variant C is the maintenance of the current system of box 3, but with an adjustment of the flat-rate return at the end of the year by asset title. We are seeing with the State Secretary, but we are waiting for the decision-making document to be made so that, of course, you have to make sure that people switch just before the time limit, so that they sell shares and then put the money in the bank. There are really good things to think of. As far as we are concerned, therefore, this choice is made quickly. However, as long as that choice has not been made, the law could easily be amended: a doubling of the exemption, keeping the law as it is, so not with descending exemptions. This also means that the percentages currently applied remain as they are. In any case, this gives a better picture in budgetary terms than the first proposal, simply because on the one hand cost double costs money, there are accounting rules for debt securities and on the other hand people are taxed above €100,000 and above €1 million. Of course, they pay their box 3 charge. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter. I needed the explanation I have now given. The President shall: Mr Van Rij, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Van Strien, Mr Schalk and Mr Van Kesteren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government does not yet have a detailed proposal for an alternative to box 3 which is more in line with the need to tax the real return;]] [[Whereas, as from 1 January 2017, the box 3 plan is poor for small savers;]] [[Whereas small savers are better helped to double the exemption;]] [[calls on the government to prepare an emergency law to double the exemption of €25,000 to €50,000 from 1 January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u203	I come to a conclusion, even with an oblique eye on the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u204	I ask Mr Van Rij whether the motion is deliberately not covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u205	I said that the coverage is partly in maintaining the current system. I explained that the first proposal will cost more than 700 million, plus the 140 million for the surcharges. The Secretary of State has said that these supplements make it far too complicated in terms of implementation if they require a different income test. So let us assume 900 million. A proportion of the 900 million tonnes that will be in the order of 200 million to 250 million tonnes will be achieved because we have a higher yield than €100,000 and above 1 million tonnes. Once we can find 200 million by paying off pensions on our own. The Secretary of State has also convinced me that in 2017 we will probably pick up a third. Of this, we can raise money once, because for corporate tax 2018 200 million has been booked. That money will come in 2017, because everyone will change their provisional attack on that point. We see the same effect in the dividend tax. We therefore come a long way in the right direction in terms of coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u206	I do not yet feel dizzy, but Mr Van Rij's speech does lead to a follow-up question. If I understand correctly, the cover not expressed in the motion is present in Mr Van Rij's head. That coverage mainly consists of supposed release in 2017. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u207	That cover isn't supposed to be there. I come to that coverage on the basis of the calculations we have seen. The pension release will indeed take place in 2017. This will be taken into account by taxpayers in the 2017 provisional tax assessment, otherwise they will have to pay 8% interest. In the multiannual budget, this release is planned for 2018. Again, I'm interested in that one year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u208	Finally, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u209	So I guess I got it right. Apart from the content of the motion and its scope, I am pleased that the CDA says: let us put aside everything that we have agreed in Parliament so far on financial cover, on budget building, on remaining within the budgetary frameworks and so on, because the small saver must be saved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u210	Yes. I mentioned part of the cover. Of course there are alternatives, but I would like to leave them to the government itself, assuming that the motion achieves a majority. In my opinion, Mrs Sent has quite rightly referred to tax expenditure. You can get something there too. There are also regulations currently under review in the Ministry. The Court will be informed in February about these arrangements, the 30% scheme and the donation deduction. So it's not that hard. Where there's a will, there's a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u211	Colleague Van Rij appears here as Santa Claus. The season is well chosen, but I am beginning to wonder if this is what we should do in this Chamber when dealing with the Tax Plan. Mr Van Rij announced this morning, so he is consistent in that sense, but we are now making a call and we are already fantasizing about coverage. It seems to me that it is rather premature to do so in this house for the next year, while there is also a variant C to be discussed, which Mr Van Rij is already putting in place now, which is part of a much larger debate, in which we will all participate in due course. Doesn't Mr Van Rij think that's inappropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u212	Inappropriate certainly not. In fact, it seems appropriate to me to speed up the process to make a choice between the current variants. I am realistic that the cabinet will not make any more decisions about this, but I am sure that this choice will be made in the cabinet formation. Perhaps then it will be decided to do it retroactively. The variant C can also be introduced retroactively on 1 January 2017, if we so wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u213	But then, of course, Christmas is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u214	I love it, but I have a lot more with Saint Nicholas. I thought Mr Backer would come up with that comparison, but of course he wants to go into parliamentary history as Hans Wiegel. He won't be able to, because that's a persiflage that I just don't think he's gonna make it. I'd love to hear from D66 what she really wants at this point. That's unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u215	This opens up a debate that we should not be having now. I'll have a second term later. Then I'll say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u216	Thank you. I look forward to that with a great deal of interest. I'll come to a conclusion. As far as the income tax system is concerned, the cabinet says that it will still do its homework as far as it can. This is stated in the letter from the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. That order is now given on the basis of the Omtzigt motion tabled in the House of Representatives and the Schalk motion on marginal pressure tabled here. We are aware that the government itself will not make any further decisions on this matter. However, we would like to stress once again that the current system has become incredibly opaque, in a sense one could see from the words of the Secretary of State that he is dealing with it in a nuanced manner, that there are many buttons and that there is above all fiscal instrumentalism, but that the real principles on which we levy taxes, for example, the principle of carrying capacity, are now far from being sought. We have been given a system which is very veiled and which has all kinds of undesirable income effects. We will look forward to the report before 15 March. We are looking forward to that too. Finally, a comment on the Tax Administration. The Secretary of State has already made a commitment to inform the Committee on Finance of this Chamber. We had a previous agreement on that. Mr Backer and I prepared them jointly at the request of the permanent finance committee. We insist that there is a good agenda and that we take a good time on the various issues, so that the Secretary of State and his officials are given the opportunity to explain in peace and quiet, which is part of this house, the state of the tax administration, with regard to IT, enforcement, the investment agenda and the scheme that has recently been adopted. As far as we are concerned, there is less political heat than in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u217	Mr. Chairman. The members of the VVD Group thank the Secretary of State for his detailed and substantive response to their first-term questions. The answer to their questions is satisfactory in many areas. I have two more points of interest. The first concerns an issue which came to me during the day. I would like to put one of these questions to the Secretary of State. On pages 39 and 40 of the note relating to the report of 9 December, the Secretary of State replied to questions from my group concerning the placing of part of the self-employed pension (PEB) with an insurer. This response has apparently caused confusion and questions to the public. My group's question is what, according to the Secretary of State, is still the difference between a certain external insured part and an undetermined external insured part, partly in view of the letter from the Tax Office, Centre for the Development of Processes and Products, to the Association of Insurers of 16 April 2004. In order to clarify this issue, we ask the Secretary of State for a clear letter, no later than 31 January 2017, after consultation with the Association of Insurance Companies. Then I come to the second issue I wanted to raise. In response to a question from my group on the phasing-out of the PEB, the Secretary of State took the view that there should be no occasional exemption for the gift tax in the Succession Act. In the consultation process between partners on adequate remuneration, in the opinion of the VVD Group, there is no element of conscious one-sided preference of the partner of the dga. The partner compensation is a sequel, a result of the legislative proposal Phase-out pension under own management and no conscious preference due to a donation by the partner of the dga. My group asks the Secretary of State whether the explanation given by the Secretary of State in the first place means that the tax inspector must prove that there is a donation in this matter. The VVD Group, in anticipation of the answer to this question, has tabled a motion for a resolution. I'm rounding up. The members of the VVD Group thank the Secretary of State and his officials once again for their commitment and commitment to the 2017 Tax Plan package.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u218	I heard you say you're holding up a motion. We debate in principle in two terms. Do I understand that you are taking a shot that you would like a third term if the answer from the Secretary of State is not satisfactory?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u219	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u220	Okay, I'll leave that in the air for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u221	Madam President. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. I did not have the impression that he spoke in detail about my rather intriguing speech. There's been a lot of talk about loading posts. I almost thought it was a slip for lampposts. In the context of the Wmo, municipalities are allowed to tease older people with this. I will put it briefly and ask the Secretary of State what he thinks of this idea. He told us that he would rather try nine times to reform the tax system, as long as it succeeds the tenth time. I'd like to help him with that. After all, we are going to have Christmas. He might be thinking about a committee that's gonna help him and the new cabinet. I do not want to call it a state committee directly, but a committee that does the preparatory work to meet the fervent desire of this Secretary of State, the cabinet and large parts of the Second and First Chamber to achieve a major tax reform. I say this because, unlike a year ago, the figures of the Planning Bureau show some budgetary space. Who would have thought that a year ago? In the longer term, there is a new budgetary space to really tackle this biggest bottleneck in our economy. We have had the Van Dijkhuizen Committee, the Don Committee and the ibo report, all of which, I think, can be a bit sidelined. I would like to include the tax extensions that have just been mentioned, which amount to some 20 billion. It failed nine times, but with the Secretary of State, I hope it might hit the tenth time. Then I'll come to the old-age discount, very briefly. I have a motion for the second term and not possibly after that, so that's a good thing. From the answer given by the Secretary of State, I conclude, partly in connection with the generous answer given to Mr Ester's questions, that he also recognizes that something will have to happen to the cliff of the elderly discount. He also used the word "cliff" in the General Financial Reviews. The old-age discount is the only discount without downgrading. The Secretary of State found that something to put on the list of sensible thoughts for the next cabinet. As a back-up, I have the honor of tabling a motion. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Van Strien, Mr Köhler, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Van Rij proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the reduction from the high to the low elderly discount occurs abruptly with an increase in annual income of €36.057 from just €1;]] [[whereas this phasing-out is abruptly leading to a reduction in the elderly discount of €1.221;]] [[Whereas this leads to a sharp fall in purchasing power in the event of a small increase in income;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to phase out the high-to-low-age reduction gradually, in accordance with the system of the labour rebate;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to phase out the tax plan 2018 in such a way that the income level at which the reduction ends is very much higher than the current annual income of €36.057,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u222	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the general VAT exemption, which Mr Van Rij also mentioned. We have taken note of the judgment of the Supreme Court, which is quite exceptional in relation to the opinion of the Advocate General. I have the impression that the role of the Secretary of State was not insignificant. He pointed out the budgetary consequences. We noticed that, according to him, there is a small impact on the cost of pension execution and a relatively small increase in the burden. We also received an email from the Pension Federation, pointing out that the impact of VAT on pension funds and their participants may be greater than threatening pension reductions. Furthermore, the federation pointed out today, but we already knew that the cabinet said it was also a political choice. I think that indicates that there's a Freies Ermes to do it differently. My question, together with my colleague Mr Van Rij, is to the Secretary of State if he wishes to let us know in a letter what he will do with this judgment. We know the practice in this respect. The Supreme Court has often delivered judgments that are not very pleasant to finance. Now the reverse is the case. Often the Secretary of State is going to repair him with displeasure judgments, but he can also possibly repair him with pleasing judgments, especially when it comes to the interests of ten million participants in pension funds. That ain't no little beer. I am very curious to hear what the Secretary of State has to say on this point. The Minister is not here, but I still need to respond briefly, even because we are not having a budget debate with the Minister next week, because of the familiar difficult circumstances in a family context. That is why a brief remark: we distance ourselves from the phrase in the letter of 12 December on page 1 at the bottom. It's about the higher tax rebates. These lead to budgetary neutral shifts from the AOW Fund to the general budget. "This is another use of existing revenue. The increase in tax rebates leads to a larger share of the AOW being paid from the general budget." Now it comes to this: "However, it is not the case that older people have to pay more taxes, or less" indeed receive "AOW." I never suggested in the debate with the Minister and the Secretary of State a month ago that this might have been the case, but it is clear to me that if the AOW fund has less resources and 15 billion or more of them have to come from the general budget, the three million elderly who are also taxpayers for VAT and income tax will contribute at least a quarter, if not more. I therefore distance myself from the very easy excuse chosen in this letter, which is factually incorrect. I will pass on the comment on the €100,000 exemption because I believe that the debate has already shown that there is a preference for an increase in the exemption. I would like to stress that, if resources were to be released from the large shareholder within the framework of own management, the small saver might have to give some relief. Finally, I am particularly interested in the comments of the Secretary of State on the judgment of the Supreme Court. We must always be careful with that. The Netherlands Bank is independent and our highest court has a right, but as a parliament we are allowed to participate in its evaluation, as the State Secretary regularly does with judgments, as I have just indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u223	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the neoliberal Secretary of State for his reply. I will try to make a number of comments on behalf of our Socialist Group. I found the Secretary of State's comments on purchasing power very clear. Groups are moving forward and groups are going backwards. The question is whether or not that is disproportionate. We can fill it up all evening, because these are indeed political choices. My group has supported the cabinet in some of these choices. That is not self-evident at all, but sometimes an opposition party chooses that responsibility. That's also why the Secretary of State said just before dinner break with so much passion that he believed that after nine attempts the tenth might go in anyway. When it comes to it, we in the country always find a political basis for important decisions. We talked about the dga and the percentage. The Secretary of State wasn't very happy about it. We have some unclear data on how many there are. What was not included in the discussion was that there was also a saving in staff costs in the Ministry as regards the handling of cases. I propose that the Minister report in July on progress and willingness to state that, if things are really different from what we thought, if fewer people make use of them, and if more complications occur, Articles IV and V of legislative proposal 34555 can still be adapted for the Tax Plan 2018. The Secretary of State has already spoken about the IRS. Indeed, Mr Van Rij and I have done a number of preparatory work for the oral consultation. We know the documents and the intentions on that point. Let us hold that discussion, but let us schedule it well and not an hour, because that was the reason why it was cancelled last time. The issue of monuments and training deductions has remained. The Secretary of State overlooked that, but I'd like to get a response. What's the status of that? How do we proceed with it or not? Then there is the question of Europe. The Secretary of State said that Mr Backer must talk about this, but it is also an important point. I understood the Secretary of State in that I was obliged, as it were, to mention Europe here. Yes, Europe must be mentioned here because it can only be done in this way. I brought in a quote from a scholar, but I could have done it without a quote, because we believe it should go that way. I think we understand each other on that point. Then there is the Ombudsman, the Consumers' Association and the Blue Envelope. I would just like to say one thing about this: let us not assume too quickly that everyone can be digitized, not even in libraries. There are people who can't do that. I understand from the Secretary of State that the Tax Administration will continue to open up to this and will continue to facilitate this. I see the Secretary of State nodding. We have already had an interrupting debate on the motion under Box 3. I think it is too premature to go into it in too much detail in this Chamber. There are all kinds of sensible words to be said about it, and there are also positive aspects to variant C, but I do not think it is right to double the duty-free foot at this time, 9 p.m., and say: that must be it. I've been a little hacked by GroenLinks about our commitment to substance determination. We have been asked why we did not go along with that in the House of Representatives. I don't really have to do that here, but I'm gonna do it anyway. The Secretary of State explained that very clearly. The substance determination itself is neither decisive nor leading in dealing with the abuse of treaties. The question is how we approach this and how impatient we are. How effective should this ultimately be addressed? It's also a matter of how you're politically in it. I will conclude my contribution on that point with a quote that applies to it. The quote is: "I would like to emphasise once again. It is absolutely true and can be deduced from all the history books that one can bow with the fortune, but cannot block it. One can help her weave her web, but can't tear it apart. But one should never give up, because the fortune walks unfamiliar paths and where they lead one does not know. Therefore one must always hope and never give up the courage, however critical the situation and however high the necessity may be." The connoisseurs will recognize Machiavelli because of the fact that this is from Discorsi.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u224	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive reply. He always does that very charming and that's nice to listen to. He even answers my questions about the Food Agenda and the loading posts. I would like to comment on a few points. We had an interesting debate on income inequality and the Secretary of State looked again at Mr Asscher's letter. However, I cannot agree with his answer. The Secretary of State says that what Mr Asscher is doing is about the gini coefficient and is quite different. The figures provided by the Secretary of State are about medians and these two cannot be compared. Medians do say something about the incomes of certain groups, and I cannot go along with the Secretary of State that this does not just say anything about what income in a particular group looks like. Each group is half above it and half below it, so it does give a line. Mr Asscher's assertion was not about the gini coefficient, but was based on MIMOSI. During the past cabinet period, the gini coefficient increased by 0.4%. This increase continues beyond 2021 and then the gini coefficient is 2.9%. When you look at the gini coefficient, you see that inequality is slow, partly thanks to this cabinet policy. I can only conclude that Mr Asscher's assertion that income policy has reduced income inequality in this cabinet period is not correct. Unfortunately, Mr Asscher is not here to contradict this. Nor am I convinced of the Secretary of State's story on this point. Mr Asscher cannot live up to his claim, and I think it would be good to discuss it with him at another time. From the figures provided by the Secretary of State, I can only conclude that income inequality is indeed the issue between the lowest and highest income groups. I come to the point of consciously increasing the distance in income between workers and beneficiaries. This has been done with a view to increasing the employment rate. However, there are quite a few people today who do their utmost to get to work, but do not succeed because there is no job for them. I have not received an answer to the question of what the Secretary of State has to offer these people. I understand that this answer must be given by the Minister for Social Affairs, but it is also really a choice of the cabinet to say to a certain group of people: stay where you are, but in the meantime we are giving the people who are going to work a lot of extras. We do not think this is fair to that group of people who do not come to work easily at all. This is a point in which we cannot simply go along with it. Then I have a few comments on tax avoidance. Mr Van Rij has just called on me to see the matter a little more sunny than I made him appear. Of course, I'd love to join you in the sunny side. I am not at all negative about the Netherlands, you should not think so, because I like living here very much. However, if the Secretary of State says we're doing a great job, I'm a little out of line. If we were doing so great, wouldn't there be so many letterbox companies here that just goes through 4,000 billion? All this has to do with tax avoidance. There must be something going on in the Netherlands why people like to be established here. Thanks to colleague Lintmeijer we found a nice advertisement from the Invest in Holland group, in which the attractive fiscal climate in the Netherlands is promoted. For example, it says: there is a wide network of almost hundredsed bilateral taxation to avoid double taxation. It also promotes duty-free parts for expats. In short, the Netherlands is indeed trying to bring companies here on the basis of an attractive fiscal climate. So there is definitely something going on here. I ask the Secretary of State again what he is doing on this point. It is definitely something to ask companies to do something in the Netherlands and not just a letterbox company. I think that would make sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u225	Mrs Vos mentioned the double taxation conventions. I assume that is what she thinks is a positive goal of tax treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u226	Absolutely! I would like to thank Mr Van Rooijen for giving me the opportunity to clear up a misunderstanding. I am, of course, concerned with the abuse that is being made of it. By the way, I had just gotten to this point in my story. We know the so-called hybrid mismatches, to which I also asked in the first term. The Netherlands, as the only Member State in Europe, is now on the brakes to take accelerated steps and wants to postpone for five years. It concerns, in particular, American multinationals which in the Netherlands, through the so-called CV/e.g. structures, establish companies that have nothing to do with operational activities, but are really focused on tax avoidance. These companies pay no tax in fact through this structure and recourse to the double taxation convention. Why is the Netherlands on the brake at this point? Why does the Netherlands not go with the other European countries to deal with this? The same applies to the "European Code of Conduct" group in which the Netherlands finds it very difficult to say that the fact that countries charge zero rates for some matters must be taken into account when assessing countries that may be a tax haven. The Netherlands is also on the brakes there. If the Netherlands is doing so well, why is the Netherlands on the brakes here? I come back to the point of the 30% tax-free from the eight-year expat scheme. If you're gonna move in here and you're gonna have to make extra charges, I can justify being helped by this arrangement. However, the fact that you spend eight years on 30% of your income, for the most part, this is about a substantial income that doesn't have to pay taxes, I find disproportionate. Moreover, this scheme often comes on top of an unpaid expense allowance that someone from the company for which they work gets. Is it not far too broad what we are doing at this point? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this. If we are doing so well in this respect, why do we not cooperate more generously in the harmonisation of European tax bases for the taxation of profits and the idea of a minimum tax rate? Surely it is important for the Netherlands to play a constructive role in this? Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive answer to the questions about the loading posts. I would like to give him the suggestion to also make it possible to load the car at home with a separate locker and a separate connection. This certainly offers an opportunity to prevent abuse. It remains a mystery to my group why there is a great deal of unrest in car circles and car magazines about the leasing cars that are being exported, while the Secretary of State says that nothing is going on. I'll take a closer look at this. For the moment, I am satisfied with his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u227	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the questions of the Christian Union Group. I would also like to thank the officials who have been assisting their Secretary of State until this late hour. I always have a lot of respect for that. It is a good thing that this Tax Plan has been set out in a number of separate legislative proposals, which also reflect the Hoekstra motion accepted unanimously in this House last year. I was impressed by the Secretary of State's speech about the lessons he himself learned from his short career as a final fiscal officer. I thought it was a beautiful, personal and passionate story. In the final year of a missionary cabinet there is usually little to achieve for political groups in the discussion of the Tax Plan. The degrees of freedom are pretty much fixed and the coalition parties are already working on the forthcoming elections. The fundamental issues that my group discussed in the first term around one- and two-earners, but also about the substantial marginal pressure for people with modest incomes, will not be settled here today. The Secretary of State moved, but didn't bow. Therefore, I shall deal with these issues only for the forthcoming cabinet formation, but parties will have to do something about it. The revision of our tax system needs to be taken forward. We can't lose another four years. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for adding the thinking behind the Schouten amendment to the dossier for this reform of the system. I would also like to thank him for his commitment to ask Minister Asscher to include that amendment in the SZW study on the Schalk motion, as I understand it. The revision of the tax system still has to take some very fundamental decisions. The two issues I have just mentioned deserve high priority. It is unfair that a single-earner family on average pays almost half more tax than a two-earner family. The differences in marginal pressure between the two groups have become increasingly severe. This also applies to the extreme marginal pressure on people with a very ordinary and very modest income. That's unfair and unexplainable. It does not do justice to the principle of capacity. Are we based on the family income, which the Christian Union is in favour of, or on individual income? That is ultimately the issue. These are political choices, philosophical choices and value-driven choices. Now our tax system is inconsistent. We tax labour income individually, on the other hand, assets back at family level and the range of income support supplements is again based on the household model. Well, then the logic is far from complete. I close and quote Leo Stevens, one of the most renowned fiscalists in this country and crown member of the ESC. He clearly states: "By unequal taxation of similar cases, the tax system drives the fragmentation of society rather than dampening it." And, so Stevens tells us, the credibility of our tax system is at stake. My group does not need a firmer incentive to review the tax system and make it fairer and fairer. Our tax system must also be linked and not polarized.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u228	Madam President. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. My questions focused on a fair tax system. The group of the SGP actually sees this debate as a third in a series, a kind of three-stage rocket: first the General Political Reviews, then the General Financial Reviews and now the treatment of the Tax Plan. In phase 1, the General Political Reviews, I was allowed to table a motion asking the government to investigate groups of taxpayers who are disproportionately affected by extreme tax burdens and to normalize this. The result of phase 1 of the three-stage rocket is that the cabinet is launching an investigation. In phase 2, the General Financial Reviews, the request came for research questions. The result is a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs, offered on December 12, so yesterday. Phase 3 is the treatment of the Tax Plan today. I have been able to filter out the points of interest to my group. It is good that the Secretary of State explicitly stated that the IACK is an explicit part of the investigation. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the support they have given on this subject. Nine parties supported my motion some time ago. But the three parties who did not do so also indicated in this debate that they are at least aware of the importance of this research. Mr Van de Ven and Mr Ester have even raised in-depth research questions. I appreciate that. There is another question to the Secretary of State to which I have not heard an answer. I have indicated that the letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs states that the aim is to be able to offer the investigation to both chambers before 15 March. Not for nothing have I asked and also exchanged with the Secretary of State during the General Financial Reviews. He made a firm commitment to that at the time. Now it says "the goal is." It is, of course, important that we have the inquiry in place before 15 March, because it could be part of the post-election cabinet formation. I thank the Secretary of State once again for his commitment. I respect and admire the way in which he has responded to all these issues. I look forward to his last answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u229	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to express my thanks for the business and punctual response of the Secretary of State. Once again, it appears that the facts are above ideology in this State Secretary. And that's a good thing after his coming out as neoliberal. For the sake of time in this second period, I must also confine myself to the few points on which, in my view, the answers given by the Secretary of State were not correct, simply not factually correct. I shall begin with the table on income distribution. Moreover, I am not criticising Mr Asscher's report, because the tables in it could indeed lead to his conclusion that policy has not allowed income disparities to grow further. That seemed to be the case, but I asked for more detailed tables that look at and assess all the low income groups together, all the middle income groups and all the high income groups and then per household. It is clear from that table that according to its own figures, the government's policy has de-levelled, on top of the de-levelling in the market. Of course, the Secretary of State didn't come out of that either, but in the end he gives an answer that is really wrong. He says: within that low group that only received 0.9% and within that high group that received 1.9% as a result of the policy, we measured the median, but it is not representative or it does not have to be representative. That is a very strange answer. I have asked this question in general, and I am not asking at all about the median, but about the purchasing power development of a group. You will then return to the Chamber: we have looked at the median in each group when replying to this question by Mr Köhler, which is more representative than the average. You will not have drafted that text yourself, but it will be returned on your behalf. You yourself present a letter from Mr Asscher in which Figure 1 starts with the cumulative median purchasing power per group 2012-2017. In short, you always look at the median in terms of income development per group and present it to us in the same way. But now that it is not a good time, you suddenly say: we have submitted it to you, but on second thought it is not representative at all. No, Secretary of State, you won't get away with that. You're gonna have to be more souffled. I still expect a substantive answer to my conclusion that all in all, the government's income policy, perhaps unintentionally, has led to further increases in income disparities. Then I would like to say something about the Oxfam report and the approach of the Netherlands as a tax haven. Of course, as with any report, there is a lot to criticize and so does the Secretary of State on the sidelines. That is an impressive list, but that does not change the main point that we mentioned in the report, namely that it was still very possible to send superprofits to the Netherlands by 2014 at least, which, because they were passed through the Netherlands, were hardly taxed anymore. This is happening on a large scale and that is why the Netherlands is at the top of the list of tax havens. The only answer from the Secretary of State to this is: yes, but we are now trying to close that gap and make that tax avoidance impossible. And then he refers to the agreements, the so-called ATAD, the exchange of information that should make this completely impossible. Yeah, that's what we're doing, and that's what the SP Group is doing. It is very good that he does so, but he himself has to admit that many pieces of paper show that it is going to take years before it can be reduced in order to pass on profits and thereby evade taxes. In the meantime, it seems useful to me to make it impossible for pure post-bus companies, which have no purpose other than to serve tax evasion and avoidance. The Secretary of State says he doesn't think that's such a good method, because they can get out of it. Yeah, he's right about that. You can do it with anything. However, since no other measures will be effective in the coming years, it does not seem to us any harm to take this measure at least. Then they'll only have to work for a few years to get around the case in another way. By that time, the measures taken by the Secretary of State will come into force and we will have limited the matter in the short term. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution on behalf of Mrs Vos and others. The President shall: Mr Köhler and Mr Vos proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to Oxfam's report of 12 December 2016, which states that the Netherlands is at the top of the list of tax havens worldwide,]] [[whereas many companies are established in the Netherlands without significant real economic activity, letterboxes, e.g., which are frequently used to avoid tax;]] [[Whereas setting minimum requirements for the degree of real economic activity in the Netherlands, the so-called substance requirements, can make a meaningful contribution to reducing the existence of such companies and to their tax practices;]] [[calls on the Government to submit proposals to Parliament within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u230	Mr. Chairman. Finally, two points on the capital efficiency levy. The Secretary of State has now come up with a response to my proposal to include a flat-rate rent or operating profit on real estate in the capital return tax. He actually says that he doesn't like it, because with such a lump sum, people are also affected who do not get a return from, for example, the rental of their second home, and that is not fair to them. I don't think that's such an impressive argument. Everywhere we work with lump sums, they are too high for some people in practice and too low for others. Why would that be an insurmountable objection in this respect? We do not agree on this and we shall return to this point in the further development of the capital efficiency levy, which we shall be discussing in the coming years. A motion was tabled by Mr Van Rij on this point. I have to return to my group, of course, in view of the far-reaching nature of this motion. I would like to say already that I do not think the recital that the box 3 plan, which starts on 1 January 2017, does not work out well for small savers. Small savers have nothing to do with the capital efficiency levy. 75% of Dutch adults have less than €25,000 assets, either on their savings account or somewhere else. By definition, we are talking about the 25% with more power.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u231	If I remember correctly, I also had that discussion with Mr Köhler last year. It's about the definition of a small saver. As far as I am concerned, this is someone who has between €0 and €100,000 savings in his bank account, after he has already used the exemption. Two thirds of that group actually has that money in the bank and now gets 0.3% or 0.4%. Those people are hit hard with that 0.9%. That's what I'm talking about. Will Mr Köhler say that someone who has €10,000, €20,000, €30,000, €40,000 or €50,000 in the bank is not a small saver?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u232	I thought I made that clear last year, but that didn't seem right. I'll try again. If 75% of Dutch people per person, not per household, save less than €25,000, I think the small savers. Actually, you could call the 50% smallest savers the small savers. The 25% largest savers can be called the smallest savers, but that doesn't make them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u233	Then it's clear to me. Mr Köhler and I are not going to come out of that. I think this is a traditional socialist definition of saving. He essentially says: if you stay within the exemption, you are a small saver and above that you belong to big business. We're not gonna get out of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u234	I didn't use the word "large capital." Mr Van Rij wrongly uses the words'small saver' and I have pointed that out. In addition, his proposal not only gives an advantage to the people with a savings bank book with €25,000 to €100,000, but it favours anyone with a capacity above €25,000. That is the outcome of his proposal. That does not appeal to me either. Nevertheless, I shall refer the motion back to my group, because there is one point which does appeal to me particularly, namely that this motion has affected all budgetary rules and procedures so far by a revolutionary revolution. That is something that will certainly be very sympathetic within my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u235	Mr. Chairman. We would like to thank the Secretary of State for the patience and ease with which he has answered our questions. We are also extremely grateful to his officials. The fact that, in the words of the Secretary of State, they had to work blue is better than black work or pay blue. In the second term, I would like to pass by the State Secretary's replies on the three main themes of the 2017 Tax Plan package, namely purchasing power, simplification and the approach to tax avoidance. As far as purchasing power is concerned, the Secretary of State has received several signals from this Chamber. One group wants more purchasing power for the elderly, the other for the sole earners, and another for the benefit recipients. One group calls for attention to be paid to marginal pressure, the other to net disposable income. The PvdA Group agrees with the measures taken by the Cabinet to present a balanced purchasing power picture. I would also like to refer to the 1.5% reduction in the gini coefficient for income inequality from the note of 25 November. I can be brief about the simplification measures, because they can count on the warm support of the PvdA Group. I am sorry that the Secretary of State has considered our question about the Law to be temporary reduced charging posts as common. In this connection, I would like to make it quite clear that with me he prefers a non-fiscal expenditure scheme. Regarding the approach to tax constructions and tax avoidance, we welcome the measures under consideration in response to the motion and note in the House of Representatives as well as the OECD initiative on the innovation box. However, we still have serious doubts about the efficiency of the innovation box. In the CPB study in collaboration with three foreign institutes, the innovation box ranks 44 in the ranking of effective policies. Can I conclude from this that the Secretary of State is therefore mainly in favour of the innovation box from the point of view of location? I come to some remaining varia. The Secretary of State is precisely in his assessment that I am disappointed with the evaluation of the company follow-up scheme. I am pleased that energy is being invested in the collection of adequate data, but the Secretary of State cannot convince me that this can only be completed in 2019. I would like to receive a more detailed explanation of this. With the Secretary of State, we consider it important that advisers take the right role. Coping in on tax evasion isn't one of them. In practice, however, these people are rarely prosecuted. Does the Secretary of State agree with the PvdA that opportunities should be extended to prosecute advisers who cooperate in tax evasion? The Law phasing out pension in its own right is the end of a long search. Although the legislative proposal is very simple in itself, it turns out to be quite complex. We welcome the written clarification and the additional oral explanation by the Secretary of State. He has convinced us that solutions to non-existent problems should not be sought; in any case wise to take that as a starting point. I have not yet heard the Secretary of State about the desirability of a horizon for tax expenditure. I would like to hear his response to the first-term proposal. The position of self-employed people has also received special and deserved attention in this debate. With the abolition of the VAR, the looming error in the risk sharing between contractors and clients has disappeared. We look forward to measures to correct the new looming error in tax and civil law. We understand that this takes time and needs to be done carefully. Finally, Mr Backer inspired me to finish with a quote. Unfortunately not from Machiavelli, but from Martin Luther King: "Today's election promises are tomorrow's taxes." These seem wise words to me in the run-up to the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u236	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his extensive and convincing reflections on the first term. What's left of the Tax Plan is actually just box 3. In this respect, I have firmly signed Mr Van Rij's motion. The concept of "small saver" may differ from one another. I am aware that I know a lot of people who did not have high incomes, but who were economical and who have more than €100,000 in a savings account. An exemption of €100,000 actually means a flat-rate return of 0% over the first €100,000. A flat-rate return of 0% is currently significantly closer to the real returns of savings than the flat-rate return of 2.6% that the government wants to release on the first €100,000. This motion may not be covered, but it does appear to me to be considerably fairer to the savers. There remains a difference between the Secretary of State and me about the usefulness of a common European profit base or CCCB. That is a fundamental difference of opinion. You can see that, I think, in the approach to the innovation box that has just been discussed. The Secretary of State says that the innovation box scheme is effective and based on two objectives: it must provoke innovation and it serves as a location factor. In both respects, the box functions. Against the last point, the box as the location factor, I have objections. Inventing smart basic approaches to provoke additional establishment, that was always, just like price competition, a factor in a race to the bottom, at least a factor that could have led to companies' overall tax revenues being reduced than they could have been. Then I choose commonality, with which we are rid of that kind of "smartness." The Secretary of State speaks relatively about the Netherlands as a tax haven. I'm sure he's right about that. He also gives the impression that we have to be patient for a few more years and that all these measures will then be paid out. Let us hope so. I believe most of all in his last comment on this: the work is not yet finished. That's what I think, when I see what's still coming up. I have one last question. I had asked why the Dutch Government would not implement the ATA II directive, which has not yet been adopted in Europe, until 2024. I don't think I've had an answer to that, but maybe I missed something. Would the Secretary of State care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u237	Thank you very much, Mr Ten Hoeve. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u238	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna try it in order of the speakers, or we're gonna lose it all. I shall begin with the motion on letter H by Mr Van Rij. Coverage here is just inadequate. A sum put forward doesn't suddenly provide us with cover. The rule in the cabinet is that no uncovered expenditure above half a billion will be approved after 18:00! I have to discourage the motion. On the VAT gap: I am very pleased with Mr Van Rij's attention to VAT. That is a tax that is three times as big as the entire tax on profits, and there is a lot going on with it. I've worked my ass off in Europe by sending all kinds of teams to all kinds of countries and asking our people to spread the ideas. Not that it matters, but there has never been any interest in that from the Chambers. Again, VAT is very important. I am therefore very pleased with the interest. I promise Mr Van Rij that the broadening and deepening of the market deserves every chance. That is what we are working on at European level, which is then a pre-emptive answer to Mr Backer's follow-up question. But this too must at least be European.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u239	Mr Van Rij and I attended an OECD conference earlier this year, which also covered VAT and carousel. It became clear to me that OECD itself needs more VAT knowledge so that it can become more active in this area too. Can the Secretary of State give that initiative a little support from its own Tax Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u240	We're already doing that extensively. We've sent teams to Germany, Poland and other countries. In the beginning there was some suspicion, restraint and unfamiliarity. We have done quite a lot about shipment, which is very useful, because these are cross-border things that we are doing a lot about. There's a lot of leaks and the money's being spent wrongly. I say to Mr Van Rij and Mr Van Rooijen that I will send a letter on what to do with that judgment, also in relation to Mrs Oomen's motion. Mr Van de Ven asks for a letter. I'll give it to you. He also expressed his concern about partner compensation. I'm beginning to understand his point. He asked who actually determines the compensation. That's the inspector who has to prove it. It's up to him to show that there's a gift. Again, that's the case now. The inspector has rarely or never had to establish this in such cases, as both partners have an interest in achieving a meaningful distribution. Mr Van Rooijen gives me the idea of a committee. I understand that, it is a well-known figure, but we have already had several committees in this area. In all honesty, it is also our call at some point to do something and make annoying decisions. There are ugly things in it for everyone, but as a whole it's better. Our professional group may be expected to take steps without a third report, we know enough, it is not a lack of knowledge. When I spoke to the various spokesmen, I noticed that they are very serious and expert people. They know damn well what's going on. This summer we must take a big step forward, because it is necessary. A report gives us an excuse not to do anything. I wouldn't want to give us that excuse. I come to the motion by Mr Van Rooijen and others. Over the cliff. I acknowledge that the cliff doesn't deserve a beauty prize. It is difficult to promise that I will come up with proposals on the 2018 Tax Plan. However, I can make sure that there are options on the formation table. But this is so big that it is still up to a next cabinet. We don't know who makes the 2018 Tax Plan, but I don't want to get in the way of the makers too much. I will at least make sure that there is a proposal on the right table. I am thinking of a list of meaningful ideas, albeit that's a little underrated; I mean it a little more serious. I admit it doesn't deserve a prize. With that in mind, I would like to propose this in this way. With what Mr Backer asked, I struggle a little. He has a point: it is not at all certain how many people can make use of the buy-back in the first year. He thinks from the dga, a point of view that deserves attention, not a bad word about it. Still, when we review in July 2017, we still know almost nothing. After all, we gave a three-month delay. What do we know in July 2017? That's what I'm struggling with. In fact, I agree with Mr Backer that it is not technically very complicated to use a higher percentage, which should be covered, which is not entirely insurmountable. In the summer of 2017 we have nothing on the basis of which to decide. I'm struggling with that. At the end of the year, the balance sheet can be drawn up, but then it is too late to check that percentage again. So I see Mr Backer's point very well, but I hope he sees my point, namely that I cannot easily find a solution to this. That's why I'm struggling with this, so I can't commit to this right away. Because that would be an empty shell, and that's what I find faint. Indeed, I had not yet answered the question about the status of the training allowance. The Minister of OCW has maintained this until next year. In the middle of November, a letter was published by her, in which she stated that "the maintenance of the bill would allow for a wide-ranging proposal for the future financing of the State Monument and Schools, in close consultation with the field and with the House of Representatives." Look, I also process quotes in my text! Mrs. Vos is unhappy with the answer. She shares this unfortunate feeling with Mr Köhler, who was at least as unhappy. Look, the median isn't blissful, but for many purposes it's better than an average. But it doesn't say everything. I refer to the group Fox, Van Rij and Knapen. If the last two seats go to the right, the average goes up, but the median is Mr Van Rij, who undoubtedly did not expect that when he went to this debate. Mr Van Rij did not know that, but he is, and that does not change. That doesn't mean anything. The gini coefficient is increasing, because Mr Knapen moves two seats to the right, without changing the median. In large groups, it is best to use it. An average also has its drawbacks, because if Mr Knapen sits across the street, there are more people who can do that, there is a huge increase in the average, while something has only happened to one doll. So both have their drawbacks. We work, knowing the disadvantages of those numbers, so with the median. But that doesn't say anything about the gini coefficient, because it's much more precise. She'll take everyone and put them in a row. I'm just one of the generation in which the gymnastics row was at length. You start with the smallest and the largest, you put a bar over it and everything in the space between the cups and the bar is the gini coefficient. That's what's different from anything that's the same size.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u241	I assume you're still answering my question. To take away the great discontent...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u242	I'm not quite done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u243	But before you go any further, you don't have to explain to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u244	Mr Köhler, if you speak through me, we will keep things in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u245	You're right, Mr. Chairman. I'll turn around so I can look at you when I speak to you. I say through you to the Secretary of State that he does not have to convince me that there are also objections to working with a median per group. He does not have to convince me of all the calculations on the gini coefficient, because we too know the limited value of this. I didn't mention it at all. All he has to do is convince me of the following. I asked the Secretary of State about the income implications of the policy for the four groups. He himself presented it to me on the basis of the median rate he did so also in the classification which Mr Asscher sent us when I did not ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u246	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u247	The Secretary of State always works with the median per income group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u248	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u249	If we say that this shows that income disparities are only getting bigger, why does the Secretary of State now simply say: yes, that median does not say everything? If he's so convinced, he should have answered my question differently. I didn't ask him about the median.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u250	No. The median is not very suitable for that. Inequality is expressed with the gini. But you can't deduce the gini from the median numbers for groups. I do not know the precise question and the answer to it by heart. Perhaps a question about equality and inequality in the letter and in Asscher's documents has been answered with a gini, while the tables are given as a median. That answer would not be very careful, but it does not alter the content. If Mr Köhler reminds me that in the answer we have given together with SZW, a median state has been sent in response to a gini question, that makes no sense. I am happy to admit that to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u251	I don't blame the Secretary of State for that at all. I didn't ask about the gini coefficient at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u252	Well, Mr Köhler asked about inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u253	I would like to repeat it again, but the Secretary of State has already answered the question himself. He knows my demand for the income effects of government policy, whereby households are divided into four quartiles from low to high or from high to low; so can I.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u254	Okay, but that table is exactly the answer to the question, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u255	It is clear from what the Secretary of State writes back to me about this that income disparities have also increased as a result of policy. All other circumstantial movements of the Secretary of State are irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u256	We do not agree with each other. We have now finally found a difference of opinion. That is reassuring, because if we only talk about models and facts, that is not nice either. There was a request for a certain table layout and it has come. If you then draw the conclusion from those numbers that inequality has increased, the government's view is that inequality should not be determined with those numbers, but with the gini. The gini coefficient gives a different picture at that point and that is statistically also explainable. It seems that we differ in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u257	Finally, Mr Köhler, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u258	I like that. The Secretary of State says: all these tables don't say that much; you have to look at the gini coefficient. Then it's even clearer. Mrs. Vos just quoted the numbers. As far as calculated, the gini has increased in recent years under this cabinet policy. According to Macro Economic Recognition, this policy will increase further in the future. Those are the Secretary of State's own numbers. When we talk about this and not about Mr Asscher's report, it is clear that income disparities have increased as a result of his policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u259	But those results included the workers and the non-workers. The point was made here: as a result of the policy. That's the line I signed with Mrs. Vos. It's about the impact of the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u260	Mr Köhler, very, very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u261	According to the Macro Economic Recognition, these are the consequences of the policy on the gini coefficient. It does not discuss the gini coefficient in general, but the consequences of the policy. That's literally what it says in Macro Economic Recognition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u262	Then we are talking about different numbers again. I'll find out where those numbers came from, because that... that I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u263	No, Mr Köhler, it's done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u264	Oh, dear! I'll finish up in the direction of Mrs. Vos. She said it wasn't calculated with the gini at all, but with the MIMOSI. They both end up on an "i" and they may be two Italian friends, but the latter is something completely different. MIMOSI is a way to generate numbers, while gini is a method to judge them. You need both if you want to judge numbers. So they're not mutually exclusive. I will come back to what Mrs Vos said, because I was not finished with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u265	Mr Van Rooijen, are you just sitting here on the side or do you want to interrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u266	Maybe exceptionally, Mr President, but I would just like to make a point. I learn things about this all night, but I always have a problem with the median. I learned it doesn't say that much because one half is underneath it and the other half is above it. The same applies to the modal worker. When I was in the cabinet, I learned it doesn't exist. He's a statistician. The average also has its objections, but if you take out the extremes at an average, the average may give a better picture than if you only look at the median.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u267	That's enlightening. I call Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u268	The Secretary of State has already said quite a few things. My group simply wants to know whether or not this government policy has increased income inequality. We would like a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u269	I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u270	Mr Asscher says: that is not the case; we have reduced income inequality. We only have evidence to show that this claim is incorrect. According to Macro Economic Recognition, the gini is increasing. The Secretary of State himself has actually only provided evidence that is moving towards increased income inequality. What is it now? That's all we want to hear from him. Mr Köhler is quite right. He has asked the Secretary of State a very clear question to which he has received a clear answer, but he cannot now draw any conclusions from that answer. I am referring to the written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u271	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u272	I would like to hear an answer from the cabinet to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u273	There are two possible answers to that. The first answer is that I firmly believe that we cannot use the median figures to draw conclusions about overall income inequality. That's what we have to do with the gini and that's another thing. That's one. The second answer is that Mr Köhler has told me that there would be other gini results going around. Let's try to reconcile them for a little while. I'll send you a little note on that. But that's about the gini. I have now heard three different numbers: two about the past and one about the future. Let's see what's what. Yeah? That may be a short note, but I'll do it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u274	I asked about that, too. The CPB has calculated in the Macro Economic Recognition that the gini is slightly reduced by 0.4% during this cabinet and is declining by 2.9% in the longer term. Am I to understand that the Secretary of State is going to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u275	No, I'm gonna give you the gini images for the cabinet period. That is a bit different from the medians and the quartiles, because they have nothing to do with this. Mrs Vos asked about workers versus benefit recipients and about what we have actually achieved with them. In that light, this is never precise, but the measurement up to two months ago shows that 160,000 people have already started working in 2016. That's really nice. 160,000 people suddenly think very differently about their daily activities and their income situation. Mrs. Vos also asked: if it isn't substance, then what is it? I thought I had mentioned this in the debate, but then I was not sufficiently clear about it. If we are to combat treaty abuse in essence, we must quickly roll out the Treaty policy aimed at combating abuse. That is what the multilateral instrument, the MLI, does. That's what we need. That takes it at the root and not through substance requirements or that kind of thing. I would also like to fight from this point of view that the Netherlands is opposed to hybrid legislation. It's the UK that does that. The UK wants exceptions for the City, with hybrid constructions. The Netherlands is not in favour of this. Many countries are not in favour of it. The Netherlands has fully supported the proposal, but I believe that Mr Ten Hoeve has asked for a later date. According to the OECD, we must first give the country on the other hand the opportunity to collect its own tax. This is mostly American tax, which has to be collected by the US government from American companies. That's what it is. You have to give the Americans the chance, otherwise we will collect their taxes, which makes no sense. In addition, the companies have taken into account constructions in a legitimate and legal way. They end up, and that's sad, but they have to get some time for that. That's normal. As a government, you can always change your mind. You may end something at some point, but then it suits you to realize a normal transition period. Since this plays a lot in the Netherlands, it is appropriate and understandable that the Netherlands should ask. But we didn't stop it. In fact, we have not asked for exceptions, where other countries have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u276	On the contrary, my point was that the Netherlands decided to postpone the five years. These are very specific constructions by American multinationals who have chosen the Netherlands for them because we make them possible. As long as we make it possible, companies are not forced to choose another decent solution. The Netherlands can simply say: we do not want that kind of construction anymore. Companies will then no longer be able to make use of tax deductions. I do not see what prevents the Netherlands from choosing that position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u277	It is not a question of tax deduction in the Netherlands. The Netherlands says the same thing. We may put an end to this, but we think it reasonable that, if we have allowed it so far, if it were legal and if it was applied in all kinds of countries in the world, there would be a normal transitional period. Well, that's appropriate. That's just a neat way of doing business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u278	Finally, Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u279	Finally. As early as 2013, the OECD announced its intention to put an end to this. To be honest, it seems to me that companies have had quite a long time, until 2019, to stop building these kinds of structures. I find it incomprehensible why it should take up to 2024 to ban these obvious constructions, which are only aimed at tax evasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u280	It is not a question of switching to another type of fuel or something like that, but of setting up an entire company. Then the reaction time is a little longer. Mrs Vos asked whether a lower tax rate in the code-of-conduct group should lead to blacklisting. It has been agreed that this is an indicator to look deeper, but that it is not necessarily a reason to blacklist a country. This is already the case because we want to apply directly what the OECD wants. This does not include the level of the tax rate, but it does prevent circumvention. If you make avoidance easy and allow it, you will be blacklisted, but in OECD context the rate has not been a point at all to be blacklisted. It was taken as an indicator. Once there is a low rate, there is a closer look at whether you are acting properly and whether you are not some kind of tax port-like country. It has been asked whether the 30% rule does not go too far. Well, at least it is not, as Mrs Vos suggests, that the 30% scheme is still on top of a fee. It's either-or. You cannot get both a fee and use the 30% scheme, because that fee will no longer be tax-free. I can't. The evaluation will give the answer to Mrs Vos' question. You have to choose in the tax system whether you use the compensation scheme or the 30% scheme. One is the flat-rate brother of the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u281	Mrs. Vos, hopefully one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u282	I have one short question. We have found on the website of the Tax Administration that it is possible that you may have a tax-free allowance and that on top of that you can benefit from that 30% exemption. I would very much like to see that text amended. We just found it on that site.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u283	There's a very heavy nod, but this is a good tip.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u284	"Kinking" means "yes." Do you mean "shuffle" or "knuckle"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u285	I nod it's a good tip, so I'm gonna go look at the site.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u286	You said there was a violent nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u287	Oh, there was a violent nodding. I meant shaken. Oh, we almost got it wrong in the Acts! Then it would have been in the history of law that I didn't know how to move my head. As I said, the evaluation is going to give the answer. That evaluation is imminent. Mrs Vos has asked why the foundations are not harmonised. I think she means a rate, a minimum rate. We can be brief about a minimum rate. In many EU countries, however, there is a fairly high allergy to this. Many Member States see the setting of tax rates as their own sovereign mandate. They probably have a good reason for that. This isn't something that's gonna land fast. We can do a lot of things about avoidance. There is great support for this. But centralising the tariff setting, even if it is a minimum, is not something that I think is going to fly fast. That is not necessary either, because if you ensure that profits are always taxed where the value is created, then it may still be such a low rate in another country, but then it will not be taxed there. That's exactly how it's supposed to be, because this is where the profits are made. That's it. That's it. There's been talk of a separate locker. That's about the low electricity rate, even at the home meter. I can only imagine a meter at that locker. So you're gonna have to have a second meter. But how do you make sure we plug in the right meter? It's complicated. I have already promised Mr Ester to deal with the motion of the Christian Union in the House of Representatives. I did not take up the report, but I believe Mr Schalk on his word. It's the Minister of SZW who's doing this. He has convinced me that he is aiming for a date before 15 March. In any case, he has said that it can go with or will be available during the formation. If I have suggested that it is there with certainty before 15 March, when the Minister of SZW has not been able to guarantee it to me, then I have simply made a mistake. Then I said something on his behalf that I didn't have the right to. His text is that it will be sought before 15 March. I have to stick to that for a while, because I can't do his job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u288	I just got the report. I read that you said it should be available at the formation. Then I said that it starts on 16 March. Then you agreed. For me, this means that 15 March is a very important date. I hope you will convince the Minister, who cannot be here today, that this would be a great idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u289	In any case, let us note that the formation does not begin on 15 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u290	That does seem a little difficult to me, because the result of the elections is only very late on that day. That seems a little quick to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u291	I'm just saying. I have already answered Mr Köhler's one question, but not the other. I hope I understand this one. I understand his reasoning as follows. He says: as far as tax avoidance is concerned, we are in third place, but the Secretary of State is only talking about the measures that may take years to have that effect; that is no reason at all to say that you are not in third place. No, but there are facts. Some measures are already having an effect. Nor does the circumstances lead to the conclusion that we belong there. We have, for starters, not a low rate but a high rate. Nor is it true that we do not have a dividend tax. We do have dividend tax. There's just all kinds of things that don't add up. So if you "turn out" the Netherlands in the middle of the other countries, it certainly doesn't end up on number three. Mr Köhler says: let us not be difficult, let us not fight abuse, but let us fight mailboxes. Then I say: I would still choose to fight abuse. Abuse also thrives without mailboxes, while there are also mailboxes without abuse. There are very legitimate trusts in the Netherlands, which just do very legitimate things that are not against. So there's nothing wrong with having a mailbox. Having a mailbox is not a sign of evil. Let's do evil where it is and not where it isn't. That is my firm conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u292	I'm afraid the Secretary of State didn't hear me correctly. Or I may have expressed myself carelessly. I didn't say we shouldn't fight the abuse, but we should fight the mailboxes. I have said that it is still years before the approach of the Secretary of State for Abuse becomes effective, and until then it may make sense to force the letterbox companies which do not have any real economic activity and are therefore only there to channel tax money and avoid tax, to close down. In the first place, the Secretary of State said: yes, but then they will come up with something else. I said: well, they should, but that is no reason not to take an effective measure at all. That is the purpose of my motion. If the Secretary of State wants to argue about that, he's got to do it now. But he shouldn't do that on something I didn't say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u293	What I'm saying is that I don't want to start working against companies that you might call letterbox companies in one way or another. The fact that they are does not necessarily mean that there is abuse. There's a lot of cocaine being traded by people in black cars, but that's no reason to ban black cars. You just have to go after the coke. So I don't feel like it. With this I also advise against the motion with letter J. This is a repeat of the motion rejected in the Lower House, but that does not, of course, matter. Mrs Sent asked if I think that the innovation box has its value mainly in the light of the locational climate. I said it's both. In the House of Representatives, however, I have to say that I think the value for the locational climate is even greater than for innovation. Let's be honest. That's what I said there. I'm prepared to repeat that here. Ms Sent found it disappointing that it took so long to collect the information for the BOR. If it had been easy to collect information, then it could have just been included in the evaluation. After all, that's generally what you do in an evaluation: you collect data, you analyze them and you come to conclusions. But this gathering has not come to a sufficient extent, so it takes a little longer. It wasn't just done. You really need to look at cases and statistics around them. Then you need to see how you can ensure the continuity of the company in question. You really need to dive into fallen. They're all over the place. I think it's because we can't just get the information up and running. I very much agree with her that it is unsatisfactory to have carried out an evaluation and, after that evaluation, to know in particular that you have had too little data. That is in itself a rather annoying outcome of an evaluation. I come to the desirability of a horizontal clause. I understand that sigh very well. The policy is to provide new tax expenditure with a horizon: it has to end again. That's not always possible. In some cases, a horizon determination would lead to....it sounds strange, yet..it is a form of uncertainty, because a horizon determination is often extended. But in the average case, the policy is what we want it to be. Sometimes that takes a little courage. After all, the lover of the bill obviously does not want a horizon. A legislative proposal is initially surrounded, by a parliamentary majority, by lovers who do not want it. They want what they want. So it takes some self-discipline to want something and at the same time to build in when you renounce it. But it's definitely the starting point. Mr Ten Hoeve reiterated his reflections on box 3. As far as the CCCTB is concerned, he has told me that we may have a different view on this. That might be possible, but I suspect that I can go some way with Mr Ten Hoeve. If harmonisation can lead to the effective reduction of recognised abuse, then we must do so. I think we share that point of view. But if it doesn't make any sense at all or if it doesn't demonstrably prevent any abuse but does cause a lot of hassle in the systems, then maybe he'd like to acknowledge it at home, maybe he can think about that at home, at least in abstracto, it's things that you could overlook. I'll give you this consideration. The question about why I have just answered the question about the postponement of ATA II. I'm just checking to see if I've done justice to all the motions. 'Cause I'm a little sloppy about it. Are there people in the room who find a motion unappreciated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u294	Mr Köhler, would you like to place an interruption? You're sneaking back and forth. You say, in a minute. Okay. The Secretary of State is just checking to see if he's had all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u295	I think I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u296	Go ahead, Mr Köhler. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u297	I note that the Secretary of State has still not answered my point on chronically ill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u298	That's right! I got it right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u299	Then I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u300	For the second time, I've failed you. I'd respond to that point in the second term, but it wasn't on my paper. That's what made me think I was ready. But I have the answer ready here. It is about compensatory measures for chronically ill. Mr Köhler's reasoning is that, on the one hand, the accumulation of costs and, on the other hand, his own contributions have put too much pressure on this group. The source for that is the Nibud. There are two or three things to say about this. Firstly, there is additional money in the purchasing power package, for care allowance, rent allowance, child-related budget, elderly discount and general tax discount. That's 1.1 billion. This means that vulnerable groups also benefit from it. These specific vulnerable groups will be added 2% as a result of this package. It is this group that benefits most from everyone, because the other deltas are smaller. But, and this in the second place, there is still a comment to make on the figures of the Nibud. The appeal to the Wmo is not in those figures. In it are the funds that these parties have lost, but not what they have received from the Wmo. So that gives an incomplete picture. The cabinet is therefore not convinced that this problem must now be resolved. There is no need for additional compensatory measures for the chronically ill in addition to the measures already taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u301	If you need another interruption, Mr Köhler, you can do so. That would be the last one. You say it's okay, that this is an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u302	Yeah, it's an answer. Then I'm through. With apologies to Mr Köhler, whom I have ignored twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-7.u303	Thank you. I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do it by bill. Would one of the members like to vote on the bill 34552, Amendment of some tax laws and any other laws (Tax Plan 2017)? That's the case. I propose that we vote on this next Tuesday. Would any of the members like to vote on the bill 34553, Amendment of some tax laws and any other laws (Other tax measures 2017)? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on that next Tuesday. Would one of the members like to vote on the bill 34554, Amendment of some tax laws and any other laws (Fiscal Simplification Act 2017)? That's the case. I propose that we vote on this next Tuesday. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill 34555, Amendment of some tax laws and any other laws to phase out the pension in its own right and to take some tax measures on old age benefits (Law on the phasing-out of self-employed pensions and other tax pension measures)? That's the case. I propose that we also vote on this next Tuesday. Would one of the members like to vote on the bill 34545, Amendment of the Environmental Tax Law (Temporary reduced rate charging posts with an independent connection)? That's the case. I propose that we vote on this next Tuesday. Does one of the members wish to vote on the Law 34527, Amendment to the Law on International Tax Assistance in connection with the automatic exchange of information on cross-border rulings and transfer pricing arrangements? That's the case. I propose that we also vote on that bill next Tuesday. I also propose that next Tuesday we vote on the motions tabled.
