ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u1	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the so acclaimed policy freedom of municipalities so far has led in many cases to tender below cost;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the NZa to set minimum prices for facilities in the Wmo and to lay them down in law as such,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3404-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u2	Mr. Chairman. For a long time now, as a Member of Parliament, I have been working to get the exact amount of municipal funding paid for the various parts of social support. The Chamber has always failed to support these efforts by a majority. In the meantime, many companies have gone bankrupt. It's actually very simple: if more goes out than it comes in, you go bankrupt. About daily spending and day care, I get the same sounds as about domestic help. Now there is a General Administrative Measure, which the Secretary of State and the PvdA keep saying: look how well we are doing to ensure that municipalities pay real, decent amounts for social support. But actually, we don't know that. So far, the Secretary of State has refused to investigate. In response to all the questions put by Members of Parliament, who want to know how he is going to check that this is happening, he says: that is not up to me, but to the relevant municipalities. That's too skinny for me. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the aim of the Government's draft Decision 34504 is to achieve a good relationship between the price for the supply of a supply and the requirements for the quality of the supply;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State is responsible for the system;]] [[considers that it is only after examination that a proper pricing is achieved in a fair economy;]] [[Asks the Government to investigate the applicable rates in the contracts concluded by municipalities with regard to Wmo facilities and to inform the House of Representatives before 1 February 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3404-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u3	I have one more question. This is a General Administrative Measure that will have to be incorporated into municipal regulations. The Secretary of State has indicated that he will give a reasonable period of time, but what is a reasonable period for municipalities to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u4	Mr. Chairman. I have little time, but I have a preliminary remark. I am proud to say that the adopted own-initiative laws of myself and my predecessor Kant really take shape in this AMvB, but it is a bit of a pity that it happens so late. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the requirements for real basic rates for the WMO are tightened, but that this will not apply to youth aid;]] [[Whereas it has become necessary to apply a minimum basic rate in order to ensure good care;]] [[Whereas the anchoring of basic rates is very minimal in the Youth Act;]] [[considers that it serves the clearness of policy as rules for basic rates in the municipal domain are uniform;]] [[calls on the Government to include the Youth Act in the basic rates to be laid down in the Wmo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in recent years, many home care workers have been returned from the wage scale FWG 15 to FWG 10;]] [[points out that home care workers should receive a decent salary for the work they do and that where wage dumping has been applied, this should be reversed;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that municipalities include in the setting of real basic rates that home care workers are paid in the minimum scale FWG 15,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a healthcare provider awarded a care contract by the municipality is obliged to consult on the acquisition of staff to the healthcare provider who will provide care before or after that provision;]] [[noting that thousands of home care workers have been dismissed in recent years and that they have not been taken over by new healthcare providers and could therefore no longer continue to provide care to their regular clients;]] [[points out that it is important to ensure that clients are not faced with an unsolicited change of new care providers and that people in care lose their job security;]] [[calls on the Government to arrange for municipalities to include a mandatory acquisition requirement in their tender form, so that non-compliance with this requirement can lead to consequences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34504-5]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3404-6]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34504-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u5	Mr. Chairman. Older people are uncertain about whether they can still get care and support when they need it. People would like to stay at home as long as possible on their own. Many people arrange the care and support they need themselves. If that does not work anymore, the municipality must ensure that the support they need is there. That takes customization, because every human being is different. That way, people can move on. If we ask municipalities to provide tailor-made services, we must also give them the space to do so. The municipality should therefore be able to decide for itself which support is to be purchased and at what price. The city council must ensure that people in the municipality receive good support tailored to their needs. As a government, we need to get as far away from that as possible. Municipalities can better assess what is needed locally, what services are offered and what price is charged for it. Therefore, the VVD is for a broad policy freedom for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u6	Thank you very much. There are questions for you from Mrs Keijzer and Mrs Leijten. If you're both gonna make it short, we're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u7	I'm sure I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. Beautiful lyrics, which were also pronounced when the Wmo was adopted. By now we are two years ahead and we see older people who are no longer receiving domestic help, daycare for people with dementia that is reduced and bankrupting all kinds of healthcare institutions. What's the VVD gonna do with that? They are beautiful, these lyrics, but of course we don't buy dry bread for them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u8	If people can't rely on their social environment, I think the government should be there for them. We have already said in Question Time this afternoon that we want municipalities to be tailor-made. We all agree on that. We need to appeal to municipalities that they actually do. Look at how we deal with domestic help and the organizations. As domestic help, you need to be able to trust that your employer is doing the right thing in your best interest. There are home care organisations that are getting bigger, actually only buying market share and offering rates that prevent them from paying their people. That's just really bad employership. That's gotta be fierce. We shouldn't reward that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u9	A brief follow-up question, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u10	I have the feeling that Mrs. Schut has been on vacation for two years or so. We are standing here today because what Mrs Schut thinks is so important in practice is far from happening everywhere. That is why we are having discussions here about how to ensure that municipalities will pay reasonable rates. That's why this General Measure of Governance is here. I think it's a little weird. The problem is that there are many municipalities that do not. Then you can't just say here that there's got to be customization. Custom is beautiful. However, if you have a senior flat and are in a wheelchair, you will not be able to do it with an hour and a half of domestic help, which is then also paid well under collective wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u11	What was the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u12	Well, just come up with some real proposals. What does the VVD think should be done to achieve that beautiful image in practice? We are in these problems because the VVD has consistently supported and/or swept away everything that has happened in recent years. Speaking these kinds of words now, I think that is a bit separate from reality. At least that is clear now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u13	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u14	We all realise that we have had to make difficult choices in the past. We still support this, because we also want our children and grandchildren to have the care that we now have. This afternoon we saw that there are many municipalities that have money left on the Wmo. With Mrs Keijzer we would like to hear from the Secretary of State that he is investigating this and that he is finding out where that money is going. That money is available to deliver customization. We think that is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u15	Mr President, may I make a point of order? Words are being put in my mouth that are not mine, and I think it is important to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u16	Fine. You have corrected that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u17	I just want to say it. Why is money left? Because there is insufficient care provided. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u18	We're not gonna do this. You've had an entire AO with each other. I'm sure that's what you went into. I'm going to see Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u19	Mr President, this is a written report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u20	You're right about that. It's a report in writing. That does make it something else, but it is a form you have chosen for yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u21	Sure. I note that the VVD says she does not agree with the cabinet policy, but does not table a motion. That's a little crazy. My first question would be to clarify that. Isn't it weird to say here that you don't actually think it's necessary but that you don't then file a motion to withdraw the AMvB? My second question would be as follows. Mrs Schut, you are talking about customization for the municipalities. They must be able to decide for themselves how to shape it. Then why does the law state that the municipality must award at least three suppliers? Why can't a municipality just say: we do it with one contractor and we make it a grant relationship? However, you impose on local authorities that they must tender. You don't let them be customized in that. Shall we then ensure that municipalities are allowed to decide for themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u22	First of all, why don't I file a motion against the AMvB? In the written consultation I asked a number of questions. At the same time as the written consultation and this VSO, advice has been requested from the Council of State. We are very curious about what the Council of State thinks of this AMvB. That's what we want to hear first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u23	The VVD and the government regularly ignore the Council of State's opinions. Also about a bill to tap more, we have recently seen extensively in the news. But I did ask a relevant question about municipalities and whether they should be able to decide for themselves how they organise it. You limit municipalities in the option that they create their own municipal home care service or that they enter into a long-term grant relationship with a party. Then you say: the municipality must come to home care through procurement and market forces. If we say that at least we are going to put a bottom in it, because we see that it is at the expense of the people who do the work and of the people who need the care, you will not give it at home. I think that's kind of weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u24	Let me give you an example of the freedom of policy that we would like to see. I know a lot of people myself, including in my family, who want to help other people for a few hours a week as alpha help, but they don't want long contracts and solidity. They want to be flexible, because they want to combine work with small children, for example. There are even municipalities where SP aldermen sit, such as Tilburg, where this has been working very well for years. We do say that it must remain possible. If that is what the SP also represents, you will find the VVD at your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u25	Mr President, I would like to comment on Tilburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u26	No, we're not gonna do that. You chose a VSO yourself. We still have a very full night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u27	But I'd like to respond to Tilburg. It's nice to hear Mrs. Schut mention that. They are going to reduce the alpha structure there, partly because the government does not want to apply it anymore. And I can't get an answer to my question. The VVD imposes market forces on the municipalities...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u28	No, but we're not gonna do that anymore. I've given you the space to respond to Tilburg. We have to have sex tonight. There are still a lot of debates after this. There must be other debates in which you can discuss this further. I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for the response to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u29	Mr. Chairman. The first motion tabled by Mrs Agema, which was adopted by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, was adopted by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Thirdly, we are asking for something that we have I have tried to point out in the debate that there are a number of reasons for this. It seems simple. It is clear to everyone what rate they have to pay. But that's the disadvantage at the same time, because everyone pays the same. What we see in support, service and guidance is that there is going to be a multitude of different products, making it virtually impossible to set a minimum price for all these different products. Apart from the fact that a minimum price is not good if, for example, an institution works with much less overhead and a real cost has been set. Finally, I also see as a disadvantage that a fixed minimum price is immediately also a ceiling. That wouldn't be good either. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u30	That's a bullshit argument. It says "minimum," it doesn't say "maximum." That's not in my motion. "Minimum" it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u31	I have indicated that a fixed minimum price can in practice become a maximum price. I think that's a danger I wouldn't want to promote. I come to the Keijzer motion in part No. 4. Mrs Keijzer has already asked a few times to investigate the rates. I informed the Chamber about the tariff developments in recent years, also by letter of the Chamber in 2015. We are now, on the basis of that AMvB, taking a number of measures that provide further guarantees for the procurement process. Looking back is extremely interesting, but I prefer to look forward. We have had a few exchanges of views on this. Let us not now investigate what municipalities have paid, but let us ensure what municipalities are going to pay. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u32	The PvdA always indicates that it is doing so very well, because with this General Measure of Management there will be an end to less than a decent rate, than a collective wage. How's the Secretary of State gonna check this out? Or is this General Measure of Governance the end of everything, he walks away and then we act like it's all right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u33	You can have two views about how you're doing well. You could say, "God, how'd it go?" But I'm in the process of making guarantees as to how it should go. I'd rather be working on that than just looking back. We'll look back. We note that a number of things need to be done better. That is why we are taking action. Such an AMvB seems to me to be the best way to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u34	Beautiful, but how do you notice that your policy is having an effect? How do you see that as a Labour Party you have been doing well and have ensured that people receive a decent wage? If you just look ahead, you'll never realize what you've caused behind you. It seems to me that the Secretary of State doesn't want to go into the books that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u35	Maybe I don't understand it well, but I've just noticed that it's already happening in practice: how many municipalities now subscribe to that code for responsible purchasing? On that basis, I found that it is not going smoothly enough. Then I concluded: we are not going to wait but to take a measure. That seems to me to be the right way of doing things. So you're not gonna look back, you're gonna look forward, so you're gonna get better. In the Leijten/Kooiman motion in part No. 5 The government is asked to include the Youth Act in the basic rates to be specified. There is no article in the Youth Act which states that further rules can be laid down. I also believe that this has been done by an amendment from the Chamber. There is, however, a provision in the Youth Act, Article 2.6, which is a reflection of what is in the Wmo. The fact that we are now laying down detailed rules on the WMO, in which this is possible, indicates that the College has a similar responsibility in the Youth Act. If we were to regulate this in the Youth Act, there would have to be a change in the law. I don't want to wait for that. For that reason, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u36	Do I understand correctly that the material setting of a basic rate in the WMO means that it will work in the implementation so that it will apply to youth aid too? If that is the case and we explain it in this way, then we can also hold municipalities to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u37	Let us give this material explanation together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u38	Then the motion doesn't have to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u39	Then the motion can indeed be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u40	In the Leijten motion on part No. 6 we are asked to arrange for municipalities to arrange, when setting real basic rates, for home care workers to be paid in the minimum scale FWG 15. Municipalities aren't about the collective agreement. Employers and employees negotiate in a collective agreement who is paid what under what rules. We do arrange in the Wmo that the municipality has to set tariffs so that decent wages are paid for decent work. We can't arrange for municipalities to decide which employees end up in FWG 15. That would also be undesirable. That really is a responsibility of employers and employees. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u41	That's crazy, because in the code that the municipalities have agreed to reach a good rate, they use the health care function rating group, FWG 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u42	I was wondering what FWG means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u43	Specialists are in scale 60. And drivers are also in the FWG. It's about determining which job evaluation group you need which training and what experience. So if you put someone in 10, make less demands on that person than if you put someone in 15. We have all said that in home care it is important to identify the circumstances of older people. That's not in function rating group 10 but it's in 15. So this is not about the collective agreement but about the basis of the job evaluation you need for the people who do the work. The Secretary of State knows this discussion very well. The fact that he is now quoting the collective agreements is therefore a little faint.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u44	That is exactly why I am giving this answer. The municipality shall make an appointment with a healthcare provider on which services are to be provided and shall make available tariffs to enable collective agreements to be followed. It is the responsibility of the organisation, in consultation with the employees, to determine which function building is used for the services it intends to provide. It would be very strange for the municipalities to indicate what role they want to play. This is the responsibility of the healthcare provider in consultation with the employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u45	I'm totally surprised about that. The inspection checks the level of employees. People who in mental health care provide outpatient care also have a certain job rating, otherwise you cannot do certain actions and conversations. Everywhere that is determined, in all rates. The only thing you're concerned with in this case is that you compensate the people who got 20% pay cut, because they dropped in job evaluation group, so that the decline in pay is corrected. So it's kind of crazy to say that municipalities agree to that themselves. The supervisory and quality framework simply involves those job rating groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u46	Of course that is true, because some work in the care sector involves certain quality requirements. The collective agreements and job evaluation regulate the scale of the work. However, this is different from the fact that municipalities are going to decide who is to be classified into what scale. Ms Leijten "asks the government to arrange for municipalities to include in the setting of real basic rates that home care workers are paid in the minimum scale FWG 15." Then the municipalities would say: I am now going to decide that all employees will be classified in that scale. That's not in line with the proportions. I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. Mrs Leijten's 7 is asked to include a mandatory acquisition requirement in the tender specifications. A number of safeguards for the take-over of personnel have already been included in the WMO. In the first place, the Wmo provides for consultations to be held between the outgoing and the acquiring provider on the exchange of the contract in order to maintain the couples as much as possible. The municipality regulates that salaries must be paid which meet the requirements of the Wmo. In addition, there is not in all cases a takeover because the work changes. We've had that discussion before. In some cases, it is also not in the interest of the client because it should be able to choose from time to time whether to continue using the same healthcare provider. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-25.u47	Vote on the motions is next Tuesday. We will proceed immediately with the last VSO for dinner break.
