ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I call Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. This minister and candidate-list leader can't be beaten out of the media with wonderful quotes about integration. But what we see is failing policy. The quality of integration education is below par. Less than half the burglars pass the exam. The market released three years ago has the wrong incentives. This minister is still responsible for this portfolio for a few months. Is there any way he can actually get things done? Why the paper tiger from the participation statement? Why not a quick and complete review of the Integration Act, which D66 has asked several times, to see what really works now? Why take this refugee as a earning model and why not take the opportunity to give education the role it deserves, especially in relation to quality control? Because how does the Minister intend to improve the quality of integration? It was the Social Planning Bureau that concluded in 2011 that someone who masters the language is two to three times more likely to work. If we are to avoid an integration disaster, we must ensure that the newcomers receive good education. We already know that a large proportion of refugees will remain in the Netherlands. These refugees are coming to the Netherlands with a delay. Let us ensure that they catch up, as far as we are concerned, from day one. It is incomprehensible that the Minister should ignore a mandate from the Chamber to take immediate action on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. What's with the participation statement? Well, because citizens are not only about the language and the way to work, but also about the values of Dutch society. We have been too shy and too implicit about this in the past. I think it is a good thing that we not only welcome people, but also tell them what our society is like. I can see that municipalities are working well with that. Why this system of integration? The integration system has been trampled a few times. Now there is indeed a market system. This has advantages, but also obvious disadvantages. That is why, in my letter of 11 October to the Chamber, I indicated that it is time to strengthen supervision, to better monitor the quality of integration courses and to enforce a little more transparency on how prices are achieved. That's very important, so you know that a burger ends up in a course that fits. An illiterate needs something other than a highly educated one. It is also important to increase the chances of success. This is not only in the interests of the citizen, but also of Dutch society as a whole. I very much agree with the speaker. What are we going to do about it over the next few months? First of all, following an investigation carried out at the request of D66, we are going to remove bottlenecks in the integration process. Secondly, we are going to give the municipalities more powers and resources to guide the citizens to the right course. Thirdly, there will be stricter quality and price monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	The Minister is a little around the most important point, and I would also like to say in connection with this morning's article that, although there is a market, there is a failing market. What the Minister should do, in my view, is to go back to the organisations that are actually suitable for providing education, namely educational organisations. We've been calling the alarm clock before. Every refugee we can keep out of welfare is one. If you speak the language, you can really participate. Once again, I ask the Minister why he is not working on this. Fewer and fewer people take the integration exams and fewer and fewer people succeed. The budget was cancelled in 2013 and newcomers themselves have to find their way into a complicated and bureaucratic system. In addition, the quality of these courses is not good. I ask the Minister: when are we really going to see action? We have been hearing this well-meaning language for years now. Now it's time for something to happen. Let us start with the implementation of the Sjoerdsma motion: language lessons from day one, and that from an organization that has been set up for that purpose and does not see this as a model of earning, that is, it is a well-known concept of a school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	What are the actions now? I understand very well that Mr Van Meenen is asking for this. It was precisely because a lot of refugees came to the Netherlands in a short time last year that it was necessary to take action. The cabinet has made agreements on this with the Dutch municipalities. Part of these agreements is that the budget per refugee has almost tripled, from €1,000 to €2,700. The second agreement is that the municipalities will again have room for their task to guide people to the right course. Agreement three is that the introduction of Dutch values is already started at the beginning of the integration course. That is what we are now working on. I believe that, with the exception of all the congregations, this is what we are doing to guide the new people who need to find their way to our society. In addition, you see problems in the market of integration, but let's not pretend everything was perfect when that market wasn't there yet. It's a long story. In a previous existence as alderman, I also had to deal with it under the old system. Then it ran far from spotless. You can now see that the numbers are getting better, that more people are participating and that more people succeed. On top of that, there is stricter supervision, clearly focused on quality, and there are better requirements. I think that is in line with the wishes of the entire Chamber, including those of D66. Finally, the Sjoerdsma motion. The Prime Minister announced to the General Political Reviews that the Chamber for the consideration of the budget of Security and Justice will receive a letter on how the Cabinet will implement the Sjoerdsma motion. That promise still stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	The Minister is pointing very strongly at the future. It's all going to be better, and it's all going to be okay, as long as we do the things the Minister proposes. We have relatively little confidence in that. We see what is happening right now, and every day that is lost to these people, one is too much. I would like to see much more urgency from this Minister and much more genuinely firm measures, which have an immediate effect. This is, to put it in my own words, all sweet, good language, but D66 is no longer satisfied with that. We just want something to happen now! This morning's message was once again very disturbing. I would like to summarize once again: the refugee has become a earning model in the Netherlands and that refugee is unable to complete his integration in that whole jungle and in the way we set it up. In doing so, we are heading towards a new integration disaster. We seem to have learned nothing from the 1960s and the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	It is, of course, a pity that Mr Van Meenen does not consider the answers I have given to the actions we have undertaken so far and the actions we are currently working on to be sufficient. I'm always available for suggestions on what else can be done. In general, changing the whole system does not provide immediate relief for the people who are talking about it, because I agree with Mr Van Meenen: we have no time to waste. We're not losing them either. We make sure that people can go and be introduced right away. How does Dutch society work? What are our fundamental values? That one starts quickly with language: yes, but there is still discussion about how to deal with people who are not yet certain that they are allowed to stay here. They too are already taught language lessons by volunteers, so I think Mr Van Meenen and I are much more in agreement than you would be able to derive from his conclusions as an unsuspecting listener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	We are talking about market forces in the context of integration policy. Doesn't the Minister find it special that an organisation such as Refugee Work, which is responsible for the supervision of refugees, is also acting on this market? Isn't that a disturbance of the market? That's what this message looks like. Is it not special that an organisation such as Refugee Work reported yesterday in the media that the EU is surrendering itself to corrupt regimes in the context of refugee policy, whereas it now appears that it is enriching itself and making a profit of €800,000? We're giving Refugee Work a lot of funding, a total of 11 million over the past year. Wouldn't it be obvious that this €800,000 will be returned to the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u9	I understand Mr Azmani's question very well. It is a fair question, especially in a free market there must be fair rules of the game. It is very important that other providers can rely on the fact that Refugee Work does not benefit from the other leg with one leg, where people are accompanied. In its defence, it should be mentioned that Refugee Work has begun to offer integration in places where there was no such offer, especially in difficult cases. Secondly, with previous signals, Blik op Werk, the label that has to check that it is being done properly, has not found any abuse of that other role. Thirdly, Refugee Work has assured me, but I have not yet been able to verify that this €800,000 is not a profit, but a reservation intended to cover the cost of the fluctuation in the number of citizens. Having said that, I still believe that Mr Azmani's question is justified. I will also go to the table again with Refugee Work, to make it clear that there is a great deal of appreciation for the good work they do for refugees, otherwise the Chamber would not agree with that subsidy either, but that it is also very important for other providers to keep a very close relationship between how one relates to the other. Otherwise, I agree with Mr Van Meenen that a earning model is being created, and of course this is about people and their future in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u10	The Deputy Prime Minister's boss, the Prime Minister, has very recently said that integration policy has failed. For the record, I agree with him. This includes, among other things, the functioning of integration. Can the Minister explain to me how hundreds of thousands of people currently need good language and integration education and that only 5,000 people per year succeed, while the Minister cannot tell us whether profits are being made, who profits are being made, whether there are good qualified teachers and whether the lessons are adequate? Can the Minister tell me? Can he share my conclusion that it has therefore failed and that there really should have been a fundamental change in the system and still needs to be made now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u11	I must correct Mrs Karabulut. The Second Chamber is my boss and the Prime Minister is my colleague. Of course, he has a special role on our team, but you're my boss. As always, I have followed the Prime Minister's statements very closely. He said that the integration policy of the last 30 years failed, four years ago. Yeah, that's what he said! It was also a moment of relief to me when he placed that comma, but that's what he said! I don't want to be silly about that. I think we agree that, precisely in view of the large numbers of refugees in our country, it is crucial that integration does better. I'm not happy. I am not satisfied with the quality, I am not satisfied with the transparency of the price and I am not satisfied with the success rates. That is why I wrote to the Chamber, my boss, on 11 October, announcing a number of measures. The first is that there will be independent strict monitoring of quality, precisely in order to protect the people who need to find their way on the free market. The second is that we are going to give the municipalities more tasks to ensure that people get to the right course. An illiterate needs a different course than a highly trained pharmacist from Aleppo, to bring them back in. The municipalities will have to find their way. I am not satisfied yet, but we are not taking action for nothing, precisely because we have no time to waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u12	If you yell often enough that things are going well, maybe things will get better! I don't think that's how it works. The minister was just talking about making a profit. The article was about RefugeeWork, but that is not an organization that pays profits to shareholders and the like. Refugee Work carries out a variety of activities in the field of refugees. Does the Minister share my view that this is not about profit that can be spent on all kinds of things other than refugees? This is just what Refugee Work was founded for, isn't it? The money now available will probably also be spent on these activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u13	I have just said, in response to Mr Azmani's questions, that Refugee Work has informed me that this €800,000 is a reservation made because the numbers that make use of these courses can vary greatly. It may be necessary to cope with fluctuations in personnel and so on. I can't judge that myself. I can only pass that information on to you. In itself, the system of providers of integration courses does not prohibit the making of profits. I think it is all the more important for an organisation such as Refugee Work, which has a dual role, on the one hand, in helping people out and on the other hand offering courses, that it is clear that it does not make a profit. Otherwise, other providers have a point. Then the organization has an improper advantage because of those two hats. I have not found any evidence of that. That's why I shared that information with the Chamber here.
