ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. I call Mrs Van Tongeren on behalf of GroenLinks. Speaking time is two minutes, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are hundreds of millions on the shelf for renewable energy;]] [[calls on the government to identify the advantages and disadvantages of a budget reserve versus fund-building for the rapid realisation of renewable energy in the Netherlands and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas DELTA requests financial support for keeping the Borssele nuclear power plant open;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the total disposal of public funds from the closure of that nuclear power plant and from keeping the Borssele nuclear power plant open until the end of its life in 2033, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31510-55]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31510-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u3	I understand these scenarios are circulating in the ministries. The Chamber would therefore very much like to see it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there were a large number of solar decisions through the SDE+ in 2014;]] [[Whereas authorisation, procurement and financing may in some cases take more time;]] [[calls on the Government to give those solar energy projects from the SDE+ 2014 six months more time to create funding, authorisation and procurement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31510-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr Vos of the PvdA will shortly be tabling a motion on behalf of GroenLinks on the test drilling at Schiermonnikoog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his letter of 10 June, in which he responded to my proposal to have oil examined for their specific and unique composition in order to see if it comes from oil fields of terrorist group IS. In this way, a first step could be taken to drain a source of income from IS. However, the Minister sees practical objections. He writes that of processed oil and semi-finished products there is no telling from what source they come from. That's only half the story. In many cases, storage plants, where the oil has not yet been processed or mixed, must be able to identify the source from which the oils originate. At least it's worth looking at. After all, no sane person wants us to finance the terror of IS through oil. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is very important that the sources of funding of IS are cut off;]] [[noting that oil trade is an important source of financing for terrorist group IS;]] [[noting that the chemical composition of petroleum oils in terms of their density and sulphur,dium chloride and nickel content varies by oil field and that the oil, as it were, provides a fingerprint of the field where it was extracted;]] [[noting that the characteristics of the oils from the different oil fields are laid down in databases, with references to the oil fields of origin;]] [[Whereas this unique oil fingerprint can be used to determine whether oil comes from fields managed by IS;]] [[Invites the Government, in close consultation with the Dutch oil and transhipment companies, to examine the composition of the petroleum products held by Dutch companies in order to exclude the use of oil from oil fields managed by IS and to inform the Chamber of the results thereof;]] [[calls on the Government to promote this approach at European level in order to prevent the EU from making an undesirable contribution to the financing of IS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. As a result of the general consultation, I shall table one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[The House noted that the Van Weyenberg/Van Veldhoven motion (34302, No. 99) to phase out coal plants;]] [[Whereas subsidised heat grids improve the business case of coal power plants and extend their lifespan;]] [[calls on the Government not to use public funds for waste heat projects of coal power plants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31510-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister has decided to grant an environmental permit and an Nb permit to the company ENGIE to conduct a number of search drillings north of Schiermonnikoog;]] [[Whereas these drillings will take place in and near a Natura 2000 site and cause a great deal of social turmoil;]] [[Whereas there is a legislative proposal for a Mining Act which will take greater account of the environment, natural values, safety, mining damage and social support;]] [[speaks out against experimental drilling and the extraction of gas at Schiermonnikoog,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u8	The D66 Group will table a similar motion. In consultation, we have decided to try to merge these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions, but I do have a question for the Minister. Last week, we saw a new step taken by the Minister to speed up the energy transition. The opening of SBIR to energy storage gives the market the opportunity to innovate in the field of storage. I would like to hear the Minister confirm that this applies not only to electricity, but to storage in the broad sense. Heat storage, for example, can be essential for our energy management. The Minister has indicated that he will follow the programme closely, and I ask him to keep the Chamber informed. I would also like to receive a letter on the use of the programme to see if we can involve it in the treatment of the Heat Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'm filing my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government also has a role to play in the financial problems at DELTA for the sake of the nuclear power plant;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to look more broadly than State participation or not;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the shareholders of DELTA, to seek solutions to the problems at DELTA, following the advice of the Balkenende Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31510-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u11	In general consultation, the Minister said, on the basis of the opinion of the Balkenende Commission, that he would look for solutions for DELTA. The opinion was published two weeks ago and now, among other things, a solution is being discussed through a guarantee by the Empire. However, it is disappointing that last week's letter from Minister Schultz on the Borssele nuclear power plant as a whole does not respond to this opinion, and that is why I have just tabled my motion. The vote on the motion could well be included in the debate requested yesterday by Mr Vos. During the general consultation, the Minister also said that he has now received the risk analyses for the small fields he promised to the Lower House at the request of the CDA and that they will soon be sent to the Lower House. Is it possible to do that before dealing with the Mining Act? After all, we want more insight into the safety of mining activities and I would also like to take these insights into account in the treatment. This is also important for our group to assess how we look at gas extraction above the island of Schiermonnikoog. We are not yet going along with the motions that have been tabled on this, because we would like to include risk analysis. We had actually expected the Minister to hold off on his decision on the extraction of gas over Schiermonnikoog until all this had been dealt with during the treatment of the Mining Act in the House of Representatives. I'm rounding up. As a result of the consequences of the mining industry in Limburg, we asked the Minister for a vision of the limitation period. That vision would be sent to the House of Representatives in May, but we haven't seen her yet. We call on the Minister to send this vision to the Chamber before the Mining Act is discussed. After all, our group would like to take that view into consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with the protection of Natura 2000 sites. This is an issue on which I have prepared a motion together with Mr Wassenberg and Mr Smaling. It has not yet been possible to combine that motion with Mr Vos's motion, but that is certainly the intention. So there will be one revised motion that will merge the two motions. I'm filing the motion now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sites with Natura 2000 or World Heritage status are specifically designated to protect nature in those areas;]] [[Whereas the installation of mining installations does not comply with that protection;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow permits for mining installations in Natura 2000 or World Heritage Sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Smaling and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u13	We have also talked a lot about heat and the different technologies with which you could provide heat, for example through gas, geothermal, residual heat or insulation. What's the best solution? The answer to that question is that this differs from neighborhood to neighborhood. It is therefore crucial to work with municipalities to see how we can reduce our dependence on natural gas for heating our homes. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas by 2050 we must achieve a major reduction in CO emissions, and that the built environment must also contribute to this;]] [[Whereas choices should be made at local level with regard to the use of energy in the built environment, which have long-term consequences, such as the choice between replacing gas pipelines or building infrastructure for alternative heat sources;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the VNG, to promote a strategy for a CO-neutral built environment in all municipalities in their planning plans by 2050,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31510-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with Mrs Van Tongeren's motion on item No. 55. It is about creating a budget fund instead of a budget reserve for renewable energy. It asks the government to identify the advantages and disadvantages of this. She has already tabled a similar motion before. The second time she's done this, it's my own fault. Last time she did that in December, and I indicated that I would come forward with it for the Spring Note. That spring note has now arrived and I have not yet given her that statement on paper. That is because I have now been given the opportunity to explain the advantages and disadvantages of a fund for the Chamber in the WHO's annual report, which we discussed on 7 June. I think my view on this is now clear, but I am prepared to write it down in addition to what I have already exchanged orally with the Chamber, because I have already promised it to the Chamber. I will do so in the short term. I would suggest to Mrs Van Tongeren that, in the light of this repeated commitment, she withdraw her motion or otherwise hold it. If she wishes to put the motion to the vote, I would advise against the motion, given what I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u15	That is a generous commitment from the Minister. I'll withdraw the motion and see what the arguments are on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u16	Since the Van Tongeren/Van Veldhoven motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you. Mrs Van Tongeren's motion on item No. 56 is about Borssele. Mrs Van Tongeren asks to examine the total seizure of public funds from the closure of the Borssele nuclear power plant. The closure of the Borssele nuclear power plant will cost more than the regular closure agreed for the year 2033. This is because there are all kinds of materials that need to be disposed of and processed. You also have a whole installation that needs to be disabled and dismantled. If you are at the end of the production cycle of the nuclear power plant, you can work a long time to that end in recent years. You can then make sure that there is as little left as possible. This means that costs are also as low as possible. Another reason why the costs are lower when you close the plant at the end of its life, is that we are busy filling a fund, the decommissioning fund. If you close the plant a year or sixteen earlier, you cannot fill that fund and there is therefore a shortage of cover for the costs you have to incur. I have already indicated that I want to draw up scenarios for the nuclear power plant. I will also inform the Chamber of those scenarios of the financial consequences. I actually think that is what Mrs Van Tongeren wants. Once these scenarios have been made, the Commission intends to take decisions on the basis of information on the costs involved. If so, Mrs Van Tongeren could consider withdrawing her motion. If this is not the case, I would like, in view of what I have just said, the motion in part No. 56 by Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mrs Van Tongeren, briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u19	The Minister says that he is going to give that information to the Chamber, so that the Chamber can follow that closing it now in his opinion is more expensive than keeping the plant open until the end of its life. But a motion on that would discourage the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u20	I'm not a fan of motions about something I'm already doing. I don't think anyone's gonna get along with that. I think I should do what I have agreed on the nuclear power plant, namely to make scenarios about what could be done with the power plant and what its consequences would be. There are all kinds of consequences, such as the costs you have to make and finding cover for them. Mrs Van Tongeren asks me to make sure that the costs of the scenarios are properly reflected. I intend to do that. I really don't need a motion for that anymore. That's why I said that. The Van Tongeren motion in part No. 57 concerns solar projects. Mrs Van Tongeren says that a lot of solar projects participating in the SDE+ scheme should be given an additional six months to realise the projects. For all SDE+ projects, the projects subsidised by that scheme, the contract for the construction of the project must be given within one year of the decision being taken. That year runs from the moment you're sure you're getting a grant. This is not such a problem for solar projects, because they are very simple compared to all kinds of other projects. The burning of biomass, the setting up of a fermenting plant and the construction of wind farms at sea are complex issues in which that year may become difficult. However, if you have a grant commitment for a solar project and have a plan for it and have applied for it all, it should not be so difficult to implement that project within a year. However, if there are special reasons for this in certain cases, we are prepared to postpone it. That actually happens quite a lot. A total of some 3,000 project proposals for solar plans have been submitted. In 500 cases, there were reasonable reasons to delay. That delay has therefore been granted. However, it is not wise to carry out generic postponements for all solar projects. It is also not necessary for several reasons. If you do it, you're gonna keep taking money, which I think you'd better use even better for other projects that can be realized. In my view, therefore, there are only disadvantages if we do what Mrs Van Tongeren asks in the motion for a resolution on part No. 57. It's not necessary either. That's why I advise against this motion. Mr Wassenberg comes back to something he has mentioned before and which we have already examined twice, namely oil coming from an area where ISIS is in control. So we've already examined it twice. I wrote a letter about it last Friday. The Secretary of State for I and M wrote a letter about it once last year. I think everything to say about it has been said. I don't think there's any need to do any more tests. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 73 (32849) by Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u21	Well, I guess I'll just have to contradict the Minister. In his letter, he explicitly refers to semi-finished and processed products. I would argue that we should look at oil that is still in reasonably unprocessed condition and is kept in transhipment companies. So I'm not saying we should look at the gasoline, I'm saying we should look at the oil as crude as possible. That is quite different from what the Minister is responding to in his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u22	I understand very well what Mr Wassenberg is referring to. Once that oil has gone through the cracker and got gas out of it, it doesn't make much sense to test that gasoline. It's about that oil and what you can do with it. We've gone into it twice. What we have been able to say about it, we have said, on the basis of the investigations we have been able to do. I do not see any possibility of getting new additional information to the Chamber. That's why I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 58 (31510) says Mrs Dik-Faber that public funds should not be used for waste heat projects at coal plants. We have not yet done so, but I would not rule it out for the future. Mrs Dik-Faber says that these coal plants are being phased out in the short term anyway, but they are not. We had ten coal plants. Five are now closed. Three are brand new. In a letter to the Chamber, the cabinet gave the necessary information about the other two. It is conceivable that certain conditions can be met which will allow a number of coal-fired power stations to remain in operation for a certain period of time to be determined. Then it would be a pity to let the heat of those coal plants go into the air, while you can also do useful things with it. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 58 (31510). In the motion in part No. 74 (32849) Mr Vos and Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about Schiermonnikoog. Mr President, I know you like to keep things very brief in this house, but there has been a lot to do about Schiermonnikoog in recent weeks. Maybe that's why I'm going to say a little more about it. There are laws governing how to deal with applications for permits. That's because it's not a banana republic here. If people or companies want something, they come to the government with a licence application and then legal certainty demands that those people or companies know where they are going, where they are judged and how they can respond to any decision they may take. That's all laid down in laws. It is my job to ensure that these laws are implemented properly. Engi, a company that has been active in the Netherlands for a long time and for which many people work in the Netherlands, has a search permit for the area north of Schiermonnikoog issued in 2013. So we're not talking about the Wadden Sea here, we're talking about the area north of Schiermonnikoog. That search permit is irrevocable and no objection was raised at the time, not even by the municipality of Schiermonnikoog. This means that there is an irrevocable search permit. What matters now is that for a trial drill such a search permit is not enough. You also need an environmental permit and a Nature Protection Act license. A procedure has been established in the laws on how to deal with it. After a careful procedure in accordance with those laws, I granted those permits. They are therefore not licences granted under the Mining Act. That is why holding those permits until the Mining Act has been dealt with makes no sense either. 'Cause it doesn't do you any good. These are laws that require me to assess the environmental permit application and the Nature Conservation Act application. This is a temporary activity, which lasts three to four months. There is therefore no permanent interference. At Ameland there have been two rigs for a long time; one is 25 years old and the other, I believe, 31 years old, 2 km and 2.5 km respectively from the coast. They're rigs where they're permanently winning. Schiermonnikoog is only about checking whether there is gas in the ground at all. If there is gas in the ground, then the whole procedure follows under the Mining Act. Any changes made to the Mining Act will also apply to the possible extraction north of Schiermonnikoog. Winning is not yet at issue at all, because we must first see whether these test drillings will produce anything and whether there will then be an application. If that request is made, we will test it against the situation at that time. In particular, that is the probably amended Mining Act. Since it is not now a question of licensing under the Mining Act, it has already been granted by me and it is my responsibility to decide on applications for permits on the basis of the law and it is not the responsibility of the Chamber to do so by motion, I advise against this motion. I would like to say the following in a broader sense. This is about small fields. If anything is found at Schiermonnikoog, it's a small field. Small fields are important in the Netherlands for all kinds of reasons. With regard to the small fields and the NAM with the large Groningen field, we are talking about 4,000 direct jobs in total and 12,000 indirect jobs. Only those small fields are invested 1 billion a year. From these small fields comes between 1 and 2 billion euros in revenue for the government. It means that we can postpone or reduce our external dependence on gas as far as it comes. Moreover, because they are small fields, their risks are incomparable to those of the large Groningen field. The Groningenveld is a huge field. It was once the largest in the world and it's now one of the bigger ones in the world. That means if you're gonna win there, you're gonna get big moves underground. We know that. Those smaller fields are much smaller, so that plays much less. I have had an investigation carried out, and I will be back in a moment to answer a question, but the results of that study also confirm this. I will send this to the Chamber shortly. Every time there is a small field or a possible small field at stake, we almost automatically threaten to say no to it, and that is not a good thing. I've checked it out. Over the past few years, we've dealt with 16 small fields. Every time there were people in the area who objected. In the Chamber, negative statements were then made. I don't think this is in the best interests of the country. I think it is in the interests of the country that we assess the applications for small fields very carefully and that we then use those small fields, if that is justified. It may well be that no gas will be extracted over Schiermonnikoog, so we will not do it if it is in the soil, because it does not ultimately comply with the provisions of the amended Mining Act. It is not, however, a good thing to anticipate this already when it is not yet ready and the request for a extraction plan is not yet available. With regard to Schiermonnikoog, it's not like we're just grabbing off the license or, as an alderman of Schiermonnikoog said, playing tricks. There is absolutely no such thing. With regard to Schiermonnikoog, we are going through a procedure which, between the first initiative and the possible start of extraction, takes ten years. These are ten years of applications for licences, examinations, assessments, requests for opinions, decisions on them, views and, where appropriate, a procedure before the Council of State. A period of 10 years is needed before this could lead to a certain outcome. During that period, I am bound to carry out carefully everything we have laid down about this procedure. So I do not think it is wise for the Chamber, contrary to what was previously laid down in laws, to decide that we are not going to do it anyway. That is why I reject this motion by Mr Vos and Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u23	Before I give Mr Vos the floor, I say that this is a VAO. The Minister has asked for a little more detail on this subject, but there is also a letter on the agenda of the committee's procedural meeting. The necessary discussion will take place in this context. So I do not want this subject to be an extensive part of this VAO. It probably deserves a separate meeting. Something may be said about the motion. The same goes for you, Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u24	The Minister is, of course, right to say that this is a trial drill. I fully understand the situation from which he has driven and the decision he has taken. We dealt with the Mining Act a year ago. We said then that we want more attention to nature. We have said that we do not want gas drilling at Terschelling and we do not want gas drilling in Natura 2000 sites. We know the Mining Act will be dealt with in a few weeks. Then you can suppose that the Chamber will say: in such a nature reserve, in that beautiful Wadden area north of Schiermonnikoog, but not drilling for gas? What's the point of a French company bringing gas up here at a test drill if we're not going to allow extraction right away? That's gonna happen, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u25	It's about your motion, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u26	It's about my motion, but the Minister says he can't do anything about it and he has to allow it. However, that is not entirely the reality we experience in the Chamber. A year ago, we dealt with the Mining Act. We said then: listen, more attention must be paid to nature. We have said that we want to get rid of fossil fuels and move towards sustainability. The Minister then withdrew the amended Mining Act and sent it back to the Chamber. We'll deal with that bill in two weeks. A few weeks before we treat it, we are told that at Schiermonnikoog gas will be drilled into Natura 2000. The Chamber shall then submit a motion in which it shall declare that it does not wish to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u27	Okay, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u28	That is why the motion is here today: because we are asking for a ruling on it. The reality as we experience it...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u29	You already said that, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u30	...is a little different from what the Minister is presenting today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u31	A brief response from the Minister. Then we'll go to the other motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u32	What Mr Vos says is not correct. It is not about an amended Mining Act which would have been sent to the Chamber in response to the contribution of the Chamber. It was a law on the implementation of a European directive and on oil and gas platforms in the North Sea. That is where the House has tabled a number of amendments that were not at all about them. Then I had to find a proper legal solution for that. I did. It's not like I'm saying here that I can't do anything else. I'm just explaining that we have laws with each other to deal with licence applications. It is my responsibility to implement those laws adopted by the legislator. The Mining Act referred to by Mr Vos is not at all under discussion at the moment. I have to apply the Nature Protection Act. I need to apply the law that applies to the environmental permit. I'm working on it. Of course, the Mining Act that is to be dealt with will never include: no gas extraction above Schiermonnikoog. That law states when and when it is impossible to win, in what places, under what conditions. Then I'm gonna have to apply that law. It is always very wise in all circumstances to respect what you as a legislator have laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u33	I am not going to allow a debate on a subject that is on the procedural agenda. There's gonna be another debate on mining. A debate on Groningen is on the table today. People are watching and waiting for that. I would like to conclude this discussion for the time being. The subject will certainly come back, because it is too important to ruffle it off. Mrs Van Veldhoven has a point of order. I'll hold her to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u34	In response to a motion, a fairly extensive discussion arises in this VAO. We do not have the room to feed them now, but it is important that they are fed. I would ask colleagues, when the Minister says that no irreversible steps are being taken, to hold on to the motions until the time when he has spoken to the Chamber about the letter he is now referring to this VAO. Otherwise, we cannot have a good discussion with each other. Once again, the Minister must say that he is not taking irreversible steps until the letter has been discussed. I would ask my colleagues whether they are prepared, on that condition, to hold the motions. That discussion can quickly be planned in an emergency AO if we want to do so together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u35	The Chamber knows that I've already issued the environmental permit and the nature conservation permit. There are no irreversible steps I would like to take at the moment. Nor do I intend to do so before the Chamber, if it so wishes, wishes to speak again on this subject. I am therefore prepared to do what Mrs Van Veldhoven asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u36	Is the author of the motion prepared to hold his motion until a general discussion with perhaps a plenary session has been held?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u37	That motion is simply asking for a ruling from the Chamber. I understand very well that the Minister is keen to allow test drilling. I understand the legal framework. I do not agree with the Minister when he says that he is going to implement the Mining Act in a certain way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u38	We are not going to have that discussion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u39	But I do think this is important. The Chamber is a co-legislator. Every time we get the impression that we do not have the last word, I will object to that. It will be debated in the near future and then we will amend the Mining Act again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr Vos, that is not the issue now. We're not treating law right now. We have a VAO with two minutes of speaking time in which motions can be tabled. This does not do justice to the subject you want to address. I'm putting an end to this discussion. Are you prepared to hold your motion until a general discussion has taken place, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u41	No, I'll ask the Chamber for a ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u42	I ask the Minister to continue the discussion of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u43	The motion in part No. So I guess I didn't recommend 74. Mr Bosman has asked me about energy storage. I've already informed the Chamber about that. Does the scheme also apply to heat? I can confirm that. In a letter to the Chamber, which Mr Bosman is asking for, I am prepared to clarify the state of play and what is going on around it. Mrs Mulder asked the cabinet in her motion (31510, No. 59) to seek solutions to the problems at DELTA, in consultation with the shareholders of DELTA, following the advice of the Balkenende Commission. I also received a letter on this matter from the shareholders of DELTA and DELTA itself. This letter endorses what the cabinet wrote to the Chamber on 8 June: the nuclear power plant is financially sound as long as DELTA and RWE comply with the so-called tolling contracts. This means that there is no problem for the nuclear power plant. For DELTA, it's a little more complex. DELTA and its shareholders indicate that they can cope with all foreseeable setbacks themselves. It is about what should happen if unforeseen setbacks occur at the moment. DELTA and its shareholders believe that the cabinet should deal with this by now. That is exactly what we are doing. In the short term, we are going to sit down with all the parties and ministries concerned to work out the financial risks and scenarios. We also have it validated externally. It will then have to be demonstrated which unforeseen setbacks could be involved at the moment, which solutions are possible and which solution should be preferred. We do have conditions for this. One of these conditions is that public interests must be guaranteed. Another prerequisite is that the division of DELTA continues in accordance with the law and the ruling of the Supreme Court. The third condition is that the shareholders of EPZ and DELTA have to bear their own responsibility for their companies and that they will therefore have to contribute as much as possible to the financing of any problems. In these scenarios, the financial and legal consequences will all be mapped out. I will also include the impact on employment. This fits in with the approach the cabinet always advocates for companies in difficulty, including this company. I am working on these scenarios and will inform the Chamber as soon as possible about the results. I think we're doing what Mrs Mulder wants here. That is why I suggest that she withdraw this motion. If she does not, I will discourage the motion because it is superfluous, given what I have just said. Mrs Mulder has asked me two more questions. The first was about the risks the small fields pose. I'll make sure that the letter in question is with the Chamber next week. This is timely for the debate referred to by Mrs Mulder. Mrs Mulder also asked about the government's vision of the limitation period in Limburg. I will make sure that this vision will also be before the Chamber next week in good time for that debate. Mrs Van Veldhoven put the Chamber in her first motion (22849, No. 75) to state that no authorisations are granted for mining installations in Natura 2000 sites or World Heritage Sites.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u44	In fact, I am referring to the research that the Minister was working on. I think we are talking about the same thing, but I think it would be good for Limburg to repeat this here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u45	Mrs Mulder knows that there is a very large technical investigation going on. I'm guessing she's just talking about the statute of limitations right now. I'll send the relevant information on the statute of limitations to the Chamber next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u46	Thank you for these commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mrs van Veldhoven's first motion therefore states that licences for mining installations should not be granted in certain areas. We have laws to determine what permits can or cannot be granted, under what conditions, what requirements are to be imposed on them and how they should all be dealt with. The legislator has passed those laws. If the law states that no permit may be granted in a given area, it shall not be given. In other areas, licences can only be granted under certain conditions. In this kind of thing, you have to apply the law. It's not an orderly administration to pass the law by motion that you don't want certain things. Furthermore, authorisation can only be granted in protected areas if the nature conservation law and an appropriate assessment of the nature values show that there is no deterioration of those natural values. We've taken care of all that. In my opinion, it is very unwise to go through what we have legally regulated with a statement such as Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Smaling to the Chamber. I therefore recommend motion 32849, No. 75.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u48	I could, of course, change the motion by saying: ask the government to legally anchor. After all, it is the most beautiful thing if these principles are simply properly incorporated into the relevant legislation. If the Minister is prepared to do so, we are, of course, a long way off. In the event that he is not prepared to do so, in relation to the point of order just now, I would point out that I will not hold this motion but will come to one motion together with Mr Vos on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u49	I'm not going to say that I'm going to change all kinds of things in the laws governing the environmental permit, nature conservation and mining. I can't do that on the basis of a motion filed. We do this on the basis of analyses we make and the evaluation of a law. This must be done in a very different way from what Mrs van Veldhoven is now proposing. I don't think we should do it like this. Those laws have been passed very carefully and the necessary careful consideration has been made. For this reason, I would also advise against any amended motion 32849, No. 75. In motion 31510, no. 60 asks Mrs Van Veldhoven to promote, in consultation with the VNG, that all municipalities throughout the Netherlands draw up a strategy for a CO-neutrally built environment in their planning plans. I think that does not relate well to the responsibilities of the municipal authorities. The municipal authorities are local authorities. They're about those zoning plans and they have to take all kinds of things into account. They are also very interested, when it comes to new plans, in possibilities not to connect to gas but to heat. They are in a large group with me working with working groups under that group to develop a joint heat strategy. Talks about the possibilities that exist, both for new and existing neighbourhoods, are under way. Municipalities act individually and constructively in the context of the VNG. To say that a separate strategy should be drawn up in all municipalities for all planning plans, I do not believe that their efforts and responsibilities are right. I therefore recommend motion 31519, No. 60. These were my responses to the motions that were tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u50	This brings us to the end of the VAO. We shall vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
