ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr President, if I may, I would like to make a point of order so that all parties can start the debate at the same time. There is just a message on the website of a newspaper, De Telegraaf, in which it says that the opposition in the Lower House would have been severely pressured by a cabinet in panic, because the Dutch people have said no and that both Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Koenders have personally called group leaders. The leaders of the political groups say that this is driving us crazy. The Prime Minister can laugh at it again, just as he laughs at the outcome of the referendum. Prime Minister, you're joking about everything, but this is a serious question. So the Prime Minister has been on the phone with people. Before we start this debate, I want to know who he called and what was discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u3	Madam President. I've become the same. I have heard from colleagues that they have been called. I would like to know from the Prime Minister why my group has not been called.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mrs Thieme, did you get a call?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u5	Ah, I didn't get a call either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u6	Let me take a look at the Prime Minister. Could he perhaps give a brief response to this, so that we can then proceed to hold a debate? Prime Minister, who did you call?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. I do not make any announcement about this, but it is very common for debates to be conducted. I'll never be able to see that. I also regularly have Mr Wilders on the phone. He's really glad I never called that in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u8	Then we'll start the debate. Speaking time is four minutes per group. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van Bommel on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. On 6 April 2016, there was an historic day. On that day, the Dutch electorate was first asked for a consultative referendum on the basis of the Act. Here is a word of thanks to the initiators for that referendum and to all those who supported their requests. The question was: are you for or against an association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine? On 6 April, the Netherlands convincingly said no to that question. The SP considers that this no should be fully taken over. No is no. As far as I am concerned, this can therefore be a short debate. In accordance with the Advisory referendum Act, the cabinet has only two options: either the law of approval of the Association Treaty with Ukraine is withdrawn as soon as possible or the cabinet ignores the ruling of the Dutch people. Does the government agree with this reading of the Advisory referendum Act? I would like to make a number of factual observations. The Election Council has officially established that the turnout rate was 32.28. So that is above the 30% electoral threshold, making it a valid referendum. Of the valid votes cast, 61% were against the Convention, 38.21% were against the Convention and 0.79% were blank. In short, a clear majority of voters voting against the Treaty voted against it. The second observation concerns Article 11 of the Advisory referendum Act. That article states: "If a referendum has been found to have resulted in an advisory decision rejecting it, a proposal of law intended solely to repeal the law or to regulate the entry into force of the law shall be submitted as soon as possible." For the third observation, I refer to Articles 486 (1) and (2) of the Association Agreement. Those Articles read as follows: "This Agreement shall be ratified or approved by the Parties in accordance with their own procedures. The instruments of ratification or approval shall be deposited with the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union. This Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date of deposit of the last instrument of ratification or approval." These facts and legal provisions lead to a simple sum. The Association Agreement with Ukraine cannot enter into force unless ratification has been completed. The ratification cannot be completed if the last instrument of approval has not been deposited. The referendum has inevitably resulted in an advisory decision to reject it. As far as the SP is concerned, this means that the cabinet has to repeal the approval law. The Prime Minister said that the Treaty cannot enter into force simply because of the overwhelming no vote. My question to the Prime Minister is: is the government prepared to withdraw the law which approves the association agreement as soon as possible? If the government does not do so, we must note that the government does not only respect the electorate's wishes, but also the provisions of the Advisory referendum Act. In response to the outcome of the referendum, the cabinet wrote that certain elements of the debate prevailed, including the concern that Ukraine would become a member of the European Union and the concern that the consequences of military cooperation with Ukraine would be. These concerns are justified. I would like to explain to the cabinet once again why, but the fact is that the substantive discussion on this treaty has already taken place in both Chambers, when the law on approval was being discussed here and there. So we do not need to repeat the substantive discussion. Does the government share this view? The government also indicates its willingness to engage with EU partners and Ukraine. That is her right, but all this does not affect the fact that ratification as such cannot go on and that the cabinet has only one option: to submit a repeal law to the Chamber as soon as possible. I expect the Prime Minister to declare his willingness to do so tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. D66 wishes to congratulate the opponents of the cooperation agreement with Ukraine. They've run an effective campaign, and it's worth a compliment. The conclusion is that the Convention cannot be ratified in this way. That doesn't leave D66 untouched. D66 has campaigned and this has also been highly appreciated by the electorate of other parties. But it wasn't supposed to benefit. There are far too many people who have voted in favour of the treaty. That's up to the precinct. The cabinet, the coalition parties, the VVD, the PvdA, the FNV and VNO-NCW did not or much too late in the debate. I am therefore surprised and disappointed at the attitude of the cabinet now that the result is known, because for months we have heard nothing, as if a no would not care the cabinet so much and now that it is there, the Prime Minister seems to be stalling and not knowing what to do with this result. If the cabinet found a no so complicated, it would have carried out a full and mature campaign, would have shown you, would have refuted half the whole falsehoods of the counter-campus. But the cabinet and the coalition parties are silent and now have a difficult story against 45 million Ukrainians and 27 EU Member States. I would ask the Prime Minister to implement the Referendum Act well. How's the Cabinet gonna do that? When's the withdrawal bill due? What is for the Prime Minister "as soon as possible"? Or does the Prime Minister want to reshape the no vote? The PvdA has always stated until 6 April that it will respect the results and now there is the result. And just as D66 stood before the Cooperation Treaty, I am standing before this result. But what now? Yes, the treaty has been voted down, but no clear follow-up is coming out of the counter camp. The SP first found the treaty to be a neoliberal monstrosity and was then happy with the trade part. Yes, that's striking indeed. From the EU Citizen Committee and NoPeil, we know that they do not care about Ukraine. They literally said so themselves. Thierry Baudet wants to destroy the whole EU. There are also people here in the Chamber who want to do so. Mr Nijman van GeenStijl once again said that the treaty should not go into the trash, but that military cooperation and political integration should be taken seriously. How's the cabinet going to analyze the no-results? When is the cabinet going to table with the counter-camp? The cabinet also announces several evaluations. Is the cabinet prepared to have it carried out independently, and not by the organisations that did it all themselves? I can just wrap it up. The voter has spoken. The treaty can't go on. Therefore, submit the repeal law as soon as possible and consult with the Neekamp and the EU Member States to see what can be done within the framework of this outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u11	Does the D66 spokesperson agree with me that a very clear question has been raised by the referendum committee, namely whether the people say yes or no, is against or in favour of the association agreement? So it's not about what the EU Citizen Committee put forward in arguments or what the Animal Party recommended. It is about the fact that the result is unambiguous. The Dutch people and the voters who have taken the trouble to vote have said by majority: away with this association treaty; this association treaty must not be ratified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u12	I think Mrs Thieme is finally asking a bit about the familiar road. The question asked to all voters who went to the ballot box, and also to those who did not go to the ballot box, was very clear. I agree with her. However, we must not pretend that there are not many different things and reasons as part of that large treaty of nearly 400 pages in the campaign. Mrs Thieme of the Party for Animals has been talking about the puffy chickens all the time. Others talked all the time about the geopolitical consequences and Putin. Other parties again talked about Ukraine's upcoming membership, which was completely out of the question. Others mentioned letterbox companies which were very problematic as a result of this treaty. Another said: we are actually talking about a so-called Nexit, a step from the Netherlands from the European Union. So it was quite a bay of different arguments that were all heard, partly as part of the content of the Treaty. It is therefore important to see what that no is based on and what is behind it. Otherwise, we will get what I think Mrs Thieme is very afraid of. As in 2005, we then have to deal with a result that no one will recognize on the basis of what he has voted. We shouldn't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u13	Of course, but Mr Verhoeven must agree with me that the cabinet cannot hide behind the fact that there are different sounds and motives why there was no vote. However, the cabinet was given the message that it would not ratify the association agreement. It cannot therefore be said that we should first look at the reasons for this and then try to adapt the treaty a little, so that it meets the concerns. No, the results were clear. This treaty can't go through. Does Mr Verhoeven agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u14	I agree with you on that. I just indicated what we think the steps are. However, we must not forget one thing. D66, the PvdA, the VVD, the CDA and a number of other parties were clear: they were in favour. They didn't get what they wanted. Those who were against had their reasons. This also gives these parties an important responsibility to explain why they voted no and what exactly is behind this result. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet has the complicated task of trying to figure out how to analyse this no in a good, solid way. That goes beyond just saying that the treaty is now off the table. The treaty is off the table, but the question of what needs to be done is still there. I just asked that question. Stop thinking, what Mrs Thieme now seems to want, is not the line of my party. I've been perfectly clear. Mrs Thieme knows that, too. We want the Cabinet to implement the Referendum Act and thus respect the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u15	Sure, so as soon as possible. The letter in which the Prime Minister states that he will not come forward with a reaction until September is therefore also shameless, because he now has to take action by sending the repeal bill to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u16	"Shameless" I leave for Mrs Thieme. I would like to quote from my own work: 'Once the time has come, the Prime Minister seems to be stalling and not knowing what to do with this result'. "Stretching time" is, in my view, a more neat translation of what Mrs Thieme said. I think that the cabinet seems to need a lot of time for something that is so incredibly clear in the Referendum Act. Hence my question to the cabinet as to what kind of Prime Minister is 'as soon as possible'. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u17	Madam President. Cooperation within the European Union is in crisis. The reason for this debate, the Dutch 'no' to the association agreement with Ukraine, is not even the most important element of that crisis, because the European Union does not deliver if it has to and if it does not. The failure of the European Union is detrimental to acceptance and has led the United Kingdom to the edge of the Union, with a dramatic Brexit as a possible result, not to mention the slumbering Greek crisis and its consequences. The Dutch people's 'no' vote is part of a growing discomfort about the European Union and underlines the crisis in which the Union is in. Brussels' response is indicative of the state of the Union. The day after the Dutch no there was the shoulder picking in Brussels and the announcement of an acceleration of visa liberalisation with Ukraine. The signal to the Dutch electorate is: your voice doesn't matter; you barked but the EU caravan goes through anyway. It is precisely that attitude that is throwing oil on the fire of euroscepticism. When the initiators of the referendum said that they were not about Ukraine but about the European Union, that led to great indignation. At the same time, I think they expressed the sentiment of many voters. A boundless European Union, which does not deliver if it has to and does not deliver if it does not have to, and which does not seem to have any measure when it comes to powers, alienates many people from political decision-making. The control of crucial decisions no longer rests on people elected by citizens and trusted by them, but on European technocrats who seem to have lost all contact with those same citizens. A crucial question is: what does the outcome of the referendum mean in concrete terms for the Dutch cabinet? Firstly, according to the Referendum Act, the government must make a choice as soon as possible. To withdraw the approval law or to allow it to enter into force definitively, these are the two flavors that we have, and that is the first step the cabinet must take. What's that gonna be? Secondly, the cabinet will have to talk to other Member States about how to do justice to the Dutch 'no' vote and make it very clear that the treaty is not an adaptation to EU membership and that there can be no defence cooperation leading to involvement in civil war in a non-EU country. Thirdly, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to clarify what options are now on the table according to the cabinet, options that do justice to the no vote in the Netherlands, but also to anyone who wants to contribute to the construction of Ukraine. Can he also comment on the consequences of these options? Finally. This referendum also says something about the functioning of our Referendum law. We'll talk about that later, if the evaluation is there. I hope that the progress of this referendum will lead to further reflection on the part of the parties who voted in favour of this law at the time. We will have the debate on the referendum instrument after the summer. The Christian Union Group is also looking forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u18	In my opinion, the Christian Union campaigned against the European Constitution in 2005 as did the Animal Party. Then about 64% of the Dutch came up and voted no. Then the citizen was given a new European constitution, with a chaff and a new staple around it, and that was it. As a result, the Dutch citizen felt deceived: he was not listened to. The same situation is now in danger, namely that this cabinet is going back to the negotiating table, making some marginal improvements here and there and allowing the Treaty to enter into force. Does the Christian Union agree with the Animal Party that this should not happen again and that there should be a clear answer from the Cabinet, namely: withdraw or allow it to enter into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mrs Thieme asks someone who is very sceptical about the means of a referendum and warns of disappointments after a referendum, or wants to warn against disappointments after this referendum. This is precisely the scenario on which we are sceptical about the instrument. If you're gonna use it, it's gonna have to be a corrective referendum. Then it must be a referendum with high thresholds, so that it is difficult to set it up. You really have to give power to the people who vote. And then it's yes or no. This is an advisory referendum with something weird as the turnout threshold, which has encouraged a lot of calculating electoral behaviour. It's an instrument that's failing and I'm critical of. It can indeed lead to new disappointments. People who have set their hopes for a no, for a result that is perfectly clear can wait for a new disappointment, namely that their no, which must be negotiated with 27 other countries, will not be fully translated into a rejection of the Treaty. Indeed, it is an extremely complex situation. If at the end of the debate it appears that there are two flavors, namely 'we withdraw the law or we do not withdraw the law', then it is clear that the no vote must sound very clear. I have asked the Cabinet questions about the options on the table and their consequences. I'm gonna listen to that first. But it will probably result in the choice that Mrs Thieme has outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u20	Thank you for once again explaining why the Christian Union is opposed to consultative referendums, but that was not in itself my question. My question was whether the Christian Union accepts that this cabinet is simply going to mess around with the existing association agreement. I understand from Mr Segers' reaction that the Christian Union does not accept that. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u21	I have mentioned several options, such as the important objection that this treaty would lead to EU membership of Ukraine. That is not in the Treaty, nor can it be in the Treaty. The Christian Union is against it. That could be an option that does justice to it. The element of defence cooperation in the Treaty is also very problematic. It has been raised as one of the objections to the Convention. These options are on the table. At the end of the debate, we will have to make the choice between withdrawing or not. I think there are motions for that. The starting point of the Christian Union Group is that we must do justice to the no vote. I've asked the Cabinet my questions. I'm gonna listen to the answers first. Once again, Mrs Thieme asks her question to someone who is very sceptical about the means of referendum. Our commitment is to do justice to the no voice that has sounded loud and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u22	Madam President. The first referendum on the initiative of the Dutch people was a great success and a celebration for democracy, thanks to the initiators of GeenPeil and the Citizen Committee-EU. Greetings for that! The outcome of the referendum was also crystal clear. The vote against was widely supported. Of all the VVDs who went to vote, two thirds voted against. The same applies to half of the PvdA voters. And a third of the D66 voters chose the PVV line and Mr Pechtold's line. 27% of the people who stayed at home expected the government to do nothing with the results. So a quarter has already lost faith in politics. Today it is about bringing these people back into democracy and showing that this government does take the people seriously. Please do not repeat the 2005 electoral deception! The results were clear. The people have spoken. The people were clear. The people said no. No, against the entire treaty with Ukraine. No means no. No, it does not mean "if," not "unless," not "with part of the treaty," not "maybe with a few paragraphs out," not "with a new version or a statement added." No is no! Not a comma behind it, but an exclamation point. How simple can it be? No one can doubt the outcome, except perhaps some sour losers. Now that the people have held a valid referendum, now that the people have said no, my group believes that the advice of the Dutch people should be taken quickly. After all, we have asked the people for advice for a reason. Every self-respecting representative of the people follows that advice, so does the government. That's the spirit. It is therefore unacceptable that the Prime Minister should want months to take a decision. That is why yesterday, together with my colleague Bosma, I tabled an initiative proposal to repeal that approval law. After all, no is no. But there's something else. In my opinion, the Prime Minister is acting in violation of the law by waiting months. Article 11 of the Referendum Act states that, after the rejection, in this case the treaty with Ukraine, the cabinet must submit a legislative proposal with the two choices already mentioned as soon as possible. The cabinet itself says this in response to many parliamentary questions. Waiting for months is not as soon as possible and therefore contrary to the law. I believe that the Prime Minister is therefore committing a criminal offence, as defined in Article 355 (4) of the Criminal Code. Is he aware of that? I'm asking him, now that he's laughing at this again, to comply with the law. But above all, I ask him to abide by the outcome of the referendum. Surely it is not possible for the Prime Minister to come back in a few months with about the same treaty, in which, as in 2005, only a comma has been changed here and there or a statement has been added? Do not deceive the Dutch people again, Mr Rutte! If you do that, you will lose faith in politics and in particular you. Don't let that happen, Prime Minister! Take the advice of the Dutch electorate, the Dutch people, seriously and thus unbiased! No is no!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr. Chairman. We are here today with the task of achieving a result that reflects the outcome of the referendum in which 32.2% of the population voted against the association agreement with Ukraine. We are as VVD against referenda, but the VVD has always said that we will take that statement seriously. That is what we are doing, and it is therefore appropriate to congratulate the initiators at the start of this debate. I would like to begin with a few observations. First of all, I note that the turnout threshold has been reached and that a large majority, 61.1% of the voters, voted against the Treaty. Secondly, it was an advisory referendum, an opinion to the cabinet, 150 MPs here and 75 MPs across the street. They now have the responsibility to accept this opinion, to take it seriously, to interpret it, and therefore to come up with a solution that does justice to it. The solution must do justice to the sounds we have heard. There were a lot of them and they were different. We have heard that many opponents and even some of the initiators have let their voices be determined by considerations not only relating to the Treaty. I repeat it to Mr Segers: they are also relevant. So now we have a complicated puzzle, because no one writes his thoughts. For some, the treaty goes too far. For others, it doesn't go far enough. Some want tougher agreements on the fight against corruption or animal welfare. For one, only a trade agreement would have been enough, and for the other political cooperation would have been the stone of shock. For another, the political section was far too non-committal, but where financial assistance was concerned, it was far too far-reaching. Some of them were very honest. For example, Mr Wilders said on behalf of the PVV 'we are talking about the dismantling of the European Union, we are talking about a nextit', while others are referring their objections to the Treaty. Most opponents, including many VVD voters, have concerns about Ukraine's accession to the EU, are concerned about transferring tax money to Ukraine through this treaty and about military involvement in the conflict. Although it's not in the treaty, I haven't been able to take those concerns away. Many people who voted against the Treaty have voted against it. I take this advice to heart and the cabinet must work on it, but we must not forget that almost 70% of the voters did not think it necessary to vote. The most constructive route seems to us to now listen to the concerns of the electorate, on which we as a Chamber need to reach a form of agreement, because the opinion was first and foremost delivered to us, in order to give the message to the cabinet that it should engage with its 27 EU partners and Ukraine. Only in this way can we ensure that the concerns are not lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u24	I don't believe what I'm hearing. What arrogance! How does the VVD spokesperson know why people voted against it? There was only one question on the voting form: are you for or against the adoption of the treaty with Ukraine? That was the only question. More than 60% said no and you do not know why they did so. It was about the whole treaty. It was everything that was in it. It did not say: are you in favour or against with or without the military part or are you in any way opposed to joining the Union? It said, "The treaty." How dare you interpret it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mr Wilders himself indicated that he was not concerned with the treaty. His party indicated it wasn't about the treaty. I spoke to Mr Van Bommel and he said that I could still live with the trade section. I spoke to the initiators and they said: we are talking about a nexit, but unfortunately that train does not pass and so we are taking this treaty. A lot of objections have been raised and you will find them when you campaign, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u26	That's really an answer to nothing. He's listed five, six, seven, maybe ten men now. I think 4 million people voted. 4 million people voted! And you do not know what those 4 million people have voted, Mr Ten Broeke. Those 4 million people saw one question, and it was about the whole treaty. The whole treaty, no clauses. They said no to the whole treaty. So how dare you fill out for 4 million people why they did that? They voted no to everything, and it would be a credit to you if you took that seriously and just made sure that that law was repealed. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u27	That's the difference. I am convinced that we, as representatives of the people, also have a role to play in this. This advice was given to us, but also to the cabinet. We will have to take that advice seriously. We have always said that. Despite the fact that we do not like this medicine, because the VVD is against referendums, I will do so. That means we have to weigh it here. That is the task that we all have as representatives of the people. I'm now giving you what I've come across. Some of those objections were very consistent, Mr Wilders. You have also brought it up all the time: no membership, no bag of money, no military assistance. It is up to us to take those objections with us now, it is up to us to ensure that that message is sent to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u28	Again, no answer to my question. It is not about what I said or did not say or what Mr Van Bommel said. Four million people voted. You have to take them seriously. What did they say? No! What did they say no to? Against the whole treaty. So where does the VVD get the arrogance to say: we will respond to your objections? There is only one way to respond to the objections of all those voters, and that is by following the no vote, the result of the referendum, no is no, and repealing the treaty. If you don't, you're not worth a haircut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u29	I hear a statement on the part of Mr Wilders, and I can only replicate it by pointing out once again that we have a responsibility to weigh up the opinion that has been delivered to us, precisely what this Referendum law was intended to do here. That's what I do with you, and that's what I do with all the other colleagues. This is what we have heard and we have to deal with it. We will have to take this seriously. We have indicated this in advance, and I will do so here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u30	However, I have the impression that Mr Ten Broeke wants to reduce or give weight to the 'no' vote by some 'no' votes. But that's not relevant at all. There was only one question. After the general elections in the Netherlands, you are going to talk about all those people who voted for the VVD because they think they were getting €1,000, and you are not going to say: yes, they weren't actually voting for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u31	You take these people seriously, don't you? Why don't you take all the no-voters seriously now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u32	Before I give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke, I would nevertheless like to ask our guests in the gallery to refrain from expressing their approval or disapproval. Mr Van Bommel knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u33	Yeah, I know, but they also know about the $1,000, I assure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u34	Of course, if you look at the results, you cannot indicate exactly what the considerations were for issuing the no-vote. It is up to us to take these considerations seriously. It is up to us to weigh those considerations. That is the task we have here. That is why this is an advisory referendum, a consultative referendum. We are standing here today to weigh that opinion. That's what we do here. There are many different nees released, but there are a few consistent lines in it. I just turned it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u35	It is not up to the House of Representatives, not even the government, to weigh the electorate's considerations, to indicate them. I'm fine with it being investigated; I'm definitely interested in it. But today there is only one question: do we take this no seriously, are we implementing it, are we coming up with a repeal law, as stated in the Advisory referendum Act, or are we not? It's up to the VVD to answer that. You walk away from that question and you cause a smokescreen. That doesn't fit you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u36	We are here as Dutch representatives of the people to make the assessment on the basis of the opinion given to us in accordance with the Referendum Act. We were not in favour of this at the time, but I wish to stick to it. The opinion is a clear no. The turnout threshold has been reached and therefore it is a valid advice. That advice contains many motivations, some outside the treaty and some in the treaty. We need to do something with these motivations. That is why we have this debate. That is the task of a representative of the people, and that is what we have to do here tonight. I'll take the no with you. It contains a number of lines which, in my view, are extremely consistent and some of them have also been put forward by Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u37	How is Mr Ten Broeke going to manage this? After the referendum on the European Constitution, the behaviour of the VVD was: we do not care about the Dutch people, we still go for the European Constitution. Now the VVD says: we are taking this referendum on the association agreement with Ukraine seriously. How can we assume that, if it is already clear that the VVD is simply going its own way and talking about different nees, when there is only one no, namely away with this treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u38	Unlike Mrs Thieme, I was involved when the Constitutional Treaty went off the table. There followed a renegotiation, in which some of the wishes that the Netherlands has made have indeed been cashed. May I mention one that brought forward my own party? We were of the opinion that the Dutch people had indicated very clearly that, for example, their own parliament should be able to exert more influence on the decision-making process in Brussels. It should be possible to raise a red card against nonsensical Brussels decisions that end up on our offices. That change has been made to the treaty. We have been able to achieve this here after weighing with the people's representatives. For example, a few changes have been made. The CDA fraction came with an absorption criterion for expansion at that time. That's what got into it. The Labour Party was concerned about the internal market in housing. That's what got into it. So it is nonsense to say here that a chaff has gone around and that nothing has changed. That is the task of the people's representatives to take the 'no' seriously and to work for a better result, even if you may have agreed to it. We have a responsibility to carry out this task here, not stamp machines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u39	Then, after the referendum on the European Constitution, Parliament was only more concerned with itself instead of carrying out what the people wanted, namely not ratifying a European constitution. Mr Ten Broeke tells us exactly what we can expect from the VVD with the result of the referendum on the Association Treaty, namely that there will be renegotiatation in the back rooms, that there will simply be a new treaty that the people have nothing to say about and that the people will have to look at again. The VVD does not now seize the opportunity to restore confidence in politics, but simply sets its own course and does not care about the outcome of this referendum. This is clear from Mr Ten Broeke's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u40	On the contrary, we take it no and try to do something with it. There were a number of very clear lines in the noise: no membership for the European Union as a result of this treaty, no bag of money for Ukraine as a result of this treaty and no military assistance as a result of it. I mention just a few that I believe can be shared by everyone here. Everyone who campaigned has heard that too. It is our job to send the cabinet out to make those improvements. We did so at the time and will do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u41	More than 60% of the Dutch population voted against, which is already huge. Of the own supporters of the VVD that was as much as 66%, two thirds. What do you say to your own supporters? Is this treaty off the table now, yes or no? Are you listening to your own supporters or are you not listening to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u42	I think I have just been very clear about this in my text. I said that I did meet a lot of VVDs and people who voted for us in 2012 who asked: Mr Ten Broeke, will Ukraine become a member of this treaty? There was that concern and it's still there. Does this treaty mean a bag of money for Ukraine? Does this mean that there will be military assistance because there is a military paragraph in it? We have heard all these objections. Today it is up to me, on behalf of the VVD Group, to do my job as a representative of the people. This means that I say to the cabinet: go back to Brussels, go back to 27 EU partners, explain that there is a clear "no' here, that there are a number of lines that everyone here shares, and make sure that they are met, and that they are done right. A no and now everything is off the table, however, means that nothing can be done. That means you're not doing anything with those concerns. Those concerns can no longer be materialized. That's what I'm standing here for now. This is how I take my job as a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u43	The point is that the objections that the VVD apparently heard are correct. Indeed, more than EUR 300 million is going from the Netherlands to Ukraine. It is indeed a stepping stone to EU membership and military cooperation is taking place. The point is that if Mr Ten Broeke were to actually listen to the VVD supporters, to those objections that are there, he would have to say today: it is going to go away. That is what people have said. The Treaty has been put to the vote and it has been said 'against'. So that is what you need to do, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u44	It's actually very simple. Let me bring forward some of the opponents here as a witness to the discharge, for example our colleague Mr Van Bommel, with whom I was debating two weeks ago on the other side of the House and who said to me: look, I can live with that trade agreement, and perhaps there will be an adjustment with that trade agreement. I did not believe that this socialist told me that the trade agreement should go ahead. I get it. Mr Van Bommel, like you, Mr Van Klaveren, will understand that it is not a question of unilaterally denying Dutch exporters, who are already number three in Ukraine, the advantages that their Greek, Portuguese and German colleagues will have. Surely it cannot be explained to a Dutch exporter that he will have to continue to pay import charges when every other European competitor does not have to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u45	In the category of entrapment, Mr. Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u46	I do not really want to spend any interruption on this. I'm not gonna take this the way I do. I hope you don't, Mr. Chairman. I did not hear Mr Ten Broeke correctly on that evening, and I did not say that I could live with this trade agreement, but that I could live with a trade agreement. That's a big difference. Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u47	I think the sounds from the Chamber show that several colleagues have heard the same thing in different debates with this colleague. Anyway... There were journalists there, so we'll read it back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u48	I have still not received an answer from the VVD to the question whether this treaty is going to leave the table and whether it is listening to its own supporters. 66% of VVD voters are against this. All the VVD has to do is listen to those supporters and say: indeed, the treaty as it stands now has to be cancelled. We have had a number of debates on the trade section. It's bullshit, of course. Trade was going on, trade is still going on and trade will continue to be driven, even if this silly treaty goes off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u49	Yes, only for Dutch entrepreneurs no longer with the benefits of this trade agreement. You can't just brush it away, Mr. Van Klaveren. You know that very well. I am not prepared to introduce unilateral disadvantages for Dutch entrepreneurs, for the simple reason that this is also in the interests of the Netherlands. I am prepared to say very clearly to the cabinet here: we have listened to the voters, we have listened to the people, we have heard the more than 30% that have emerged, and indeed a large majority of whom, like a large part of the people who voted for the VVD in 2012, have said: there are concerns and we want them to be taken seriously. This treaty cannot lead to EU membership of Ukraine. In order to use Mr Van Bommel's terminology, we cannot go to war. It cannot be said that Mr Van Klaveren was wrong just now, because that is not because of this treaty, but because of the partnership agreement that this treaty is going to result in an extra bag of money. That's what I'm here for, and it's very recognizable to my constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u50	That is why you should simply say, as your electorate said: the VVD agrees and listens to its own supporters; we are rejecting this treaty. That's what people said. There was a question before, the answer was against and what are you doing? Nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u51	It's very simple. If there is no result that is consistent with listening to the voter and weighing up the opinion that has been delivered, there are only two options according to the law. One option is to continue ratification. It's obviously out of the question right now. The other option is it's off the table. As far as I am concerned, however, the cabinet, and indeed the Chamber, because the opinion has also been given to us, must show that we have heard what has been said in all these rooms and why a no has been said. You know the disadvantages of a referendum. I don't have to measure it extensively here again. That is why we are not in favour of this means, but that does not relieve me of the obligation to do my best here today to weigh that advice, to read it and to ensure that something happens to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u52	My ears are pounding when I hear the reasoning of the VVD spokesperson. How can it be that he wants to weigh the voter's no, while at the time, in the Lower House elections, a large part of the VVD voters voted for the VVD because they wanted to keep the Labour Party out of the door, and many PvdA voters voted for the Labour Party to keep the VVD out of the door? If only you had taken into account what that voter meant by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u53	I think Mr Krol would like to repeat the formation. The result of the election is what it was. I don't think there was any other combination. There are days when I am happier with that combination than other days, but I think we do a great job for the Netherlands. We're back from a financial crisis. Economic growth is back. We are back in the front wagon of the European Union when it comes to our performance. I am particularly looking forward to Mr Krol's appreciation in this respect, but perhaps he himself will take part in the formation next time. Who knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u54	The VVD, like me, voted in favour of the treaty last year. Then came the consultative referendum. It's over now. In the campaign, the supporters, especially D66, have shown a great deal of enthusiasm. Mr Verhoeven has rightly pointed that out. Then the question is: where was the VVD? Now, afterwards, I hear all sorts of arguments why it would all be good and why it would be an improvement. That is all very correct and very correct, but the VVD should have explained that in advance. If she had done so in advance, she would not be able to express all these ifs and buts afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u55	I'm not sure what to do with this interruption. I would almost say: I could ask Mr Verhoeven. We have been in many rooms with each other and with others. The VVD has been very clear, both about the remedy and about the fact that we took it seriously. Unlike some parties, we have not tried to make an advisory referendum a binding referendum outside Parliament, although we will undoubtedly reconsider the threshold of entry and what it does with the binding nature of an advisory referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u56	That is precisely the point: it is an advisory referendum on something that we have already decided on, which we are therefore accountable for. The VVD has only visited a few rooms here and there, but not all bus booths are neatly glued. It has not gone into full detail and has not campaigned in full. Now Mr Ten Broeke says afterwards: 'Well, well, what should we think about that? Let us give the cabinet time to think about it with all the ifs and buts and the pros and cons." The VVD should have done much more in advance and not make this plea now. Now there's a clear choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u57	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u58	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has not campaigned, but the company Ten Broeke has campaigned. I've been there a number of times. I have a question about that, because he has heard all these different arguments in all those rooms. That was a lot more arguments than the letter from the cabinet. The cabinet actually says: we want to consult with the Chamber, but it is mainly about alleged membership and military cooperation. The cabinet is now abbreviatingly saying that these two things are the most important motives of the no. How does Mr Ten Broeke, who has stood in all these rooms, see this width? I think that is important. Does he think those two things are enough and he says, "That's it?" Or does the VVD, listening to Mr Ten Broeke, who has been in all those rooms: no, there is more going on and we need to do thorough research on this result?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u59	It is the whole debate that I have just had with a number of colleagues that I believe we, as representatives of the people, have an independent responsibility to deal with this opinion. So we must also look at what that means. I have mentioned three elements here and I can mention a few more. For some, it was too much of a fight against corruption. Mr Verhoeven mentioned the mailboxes himself. For others, the treaty did not go far enough and there were not enough guarantees in it. It is up to us here to see whether this leads to a satisfactory interpretation of the no, of the opinion we have been given. I have also noted that Mr Verhoeven himself said what the Netherlands, the EU and Europe can do next. That's exactly why it's happening here now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u60	The point is that I say to the one-dimensional thinkers in the Chamber who say "no is no," that you cannot get the results from what someone puts on a voting form if the choice is no or yes. It is also too short, however, to say that it has been two elements and that if we do something about it, we are there. My question to the VVD is, therefore, what Mr Ten Broeke sees as the next steps to get a good analysis of the no, to do justice to that and yet to get on with the things that are actually good, too, and indeed, in the eyes of a large part of the neekamp. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u61	That's a clear question. I think everyone has ideas about that. I know that Mr Verhoeven also has ideas about this. The most important step is here tonight. That's what I said. I have spoken to my group about this. We are here this evening in this debate in order to tell each other how we consider this no. I've made a move for that now. I am also prepared to table a number of motions in the second term, so that we can at least send the cabinet on its way with an order. I believe that the cabinet should go back to Brussels, back to the 27 partners to explain what no means here and that it does not mean that ratification can now continue. I think Mr Verhoeven gave that message himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u62	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u63	I gave a very different message. Mr Ten Broeke said he wanted the cabinet to go back to the 27 EU Member States. That is what I said, but there is still a step in the right direction as far as D66 is concerned. I have already devoted two interruptions to that step, but perhaps I am not clear enough. Does Mr Ten Broeke also want the cabinet to go back to the no-camp? Does he want the cabinet to talk to, for example, the representatives of the neekamp who called out all these different things? Does he want the cabinet to investigate the outcome by looking a little further than just the fact that 62% voted no? Does Mr Ten Broeke also believe that this should be done in order to take a step so that the outcome of the referendum is respected in the way intended by those who voted no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u64	Sure. That may be part of that, but I do think that this is first for the people's representatives, who made this Referendum law possible and asked for this opinion. This is not an unsolicited opinion, it is an advice that is requested and we must do something about it. I read a tweet yesterday by Mr Verhoeven, in which he gave an interesting order of things as far as I am concerned: a repeal law must be put in place as soon as possible, then Rutte has to sit down with the neekamp and the point that Mr Verhoeven has just suggested and then there must be consultation with the EU. I had to think at that time, you'll forgive me, I'm an expert in the field of experience, what that would mean when you're divorced from your wife and you say to her: look, here are the divorce papers, sign them first, then you go into therapy, and then if you've drawn the right conclusions, maybe we can get back together again. I can tell Mr Verhoeven, who I hope will have a happy marriage, one thing: that is not going to work. So there is perhaps something left to do about that order. I believe that the cabinet should at least do everything in its power to weigh the results first with us and, as far as I am concerned, with the no-camp. That is also what the no-camp, at least some of the initiators, I say to Mr Wilders, has asked for. "Not me," I hear Mr Wilders say from the benches. That's right. When Mr Baudet indicated that he wanted to, Mr Wilders was there to call him back. That makes clear the differences within the camp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mr Baudet is not taking part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u66	No, that's a matter of the rules of the game we have here with each other. Perhaps, through Mr Verhoeven, he will have another opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u67	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u68	It is now also important for the cabinet to see what it can do with the no. That is not without precedent, by the way. When the Irish people voted against the Treaty of Nice in a referendum, they first expressed their concerns and then they were honoured. Not only did this send away the Irish Government with an order, but a message came back from Europe as well. We believe that this is the path that needs to be taken now. This addresses the concerns and puts the cabinet to work. For this purpose, I have prepared three motions for the second time, but I would also like to listen to the interpretation of my fellow Members of the opinion which has been given us so clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators of the GeenPeil referendum and their thousands of volunteers, the Army of Peils. What an unprecedented achievement, unique in Dutch democracy. Millions of people went to the ballot box last week. The magical limit of 30% was reached and the result was a crushing counter. The establishment has been whistled back hard. The Dutch people do not need an EU association treaty with Ukraine. All those millions of voters who voted against knew that there is no continental crisis and we are not all suddenly friends of Putin's. The question was simple: are you for or against the treaty? The answer was clear: against. The association agreement must now also be withdrawn. Not a little bit or half, but he-le-time. And not temporarily, but permanently. Only that commitment does justice to the outcome. Rutte is Prime Minister of the Netherlands, not Ukraine. First of all, calling Ukraine and talking to the EU instead of listening to its own people is nothing more than folly-squeezing. I'd like to get a reaction to this. We would also like to hear the deadline for this law to be repealed by the Cabinet in accordance with Article 11 of the Advisory referendum Act, given the outcome of the referendum. The growing EU is costing us money, sovereignty and stability. The EU-Ukraine Convention was an example of this. The Netherlands is not waiting for that. This referendum tastes like more. VNL believes that the Netherlands, like Britain, should be able to give its opinion on EU membership in a referendum. We are putting forward an own-initiative proposal for this. Finally, I wish from this place Nigel Farage, who came to the Netherlands on our invitation last week and gave a fantastic speech in support of the initiative to hold a referendum, great success with his campaign for a Brexit. As far as we are concerned, there will soon be a referendum on a new postit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u70	Madam President. On 6 April, the Netherlands was able to give its opinion on the European Association Treaty with Ukraine. The SGP Group voted in favour of that treaty in Parliament. It is quite clear that the SGP Group was not in favour of this type of referendum. We are in favour of representative democracy. In addition, and for us, it was an important argument that we are concerned that this kind of referenda should trigger something rather than remove it if, in the end, citizens feel that the result is not being properly addressed and that citizens' objections are not being listened to. That danger is particularly present in this type of consultative referenda, because the voter is not asked extensively for his opinion but is presented with a digital choice, a yes or a no. But no matter how we turn it or turn it around, the democratic reality is that we have been given a referendum law. Moreover, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has decided that this law approving the treaty with Ukraine is suitable for a referendum, i.e. that it is not covered by the derogations. The results are clear and the entry threshold has been reached. So it's a valid rash. The voters have said no to the adoption law. The key question before us now is: how do we do convincingly justice to this result? How do we translate the no of the referendum in such a way that discontent among Dutch citizens is removed instead of fed? That responsibility weighs heavily on the SGP. The Arithmétique hollandaise (the Dutch mathematics) which in the beginning of the nineteenth century provided a solution, because the homestayers were then counted among the supporters, is not covered by the provisions of the Referendum Act. So it's really that no is now in front of it. According to the SGP Group, the most convincing and clear response to the outcome would be: not ratify. Does the cabinet share this view? Is it prepared to issue a withdrawal bill? What possibilities does the cabinet see for maintaining good relations with Ukraine and for meeting the commercial interests of the Netherlands other than the treaty on which the referendum was based? However, there is more. This referendum has once again shown that a large part of the Dutch disagree with the tendency to build European towers ever higher. The feeling is that too much power has come to lie in Brussels. There is also the suspicion that the Treaty represents a further step towards Ukraine's accession to the EU. The actions of some have also fueled this mistrust. What is the government's reaction to this discontent? What is the real outcome of Commissioner Timmermans' fine intentions to clean up EU legislation? Finally, the practical way in which the referendum is conducted also deserves a thorough evaluation. We would like to discuss the subsidised toilet rolls and additional subsidies for political parties later on in the evaluation. Why should this evaluation take so long, until September? Couldn't he come to the room earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u71	Mr. Chairman. The question that was put to Dutch voters last Wednesday was clear. So is the answer. More than two thirds of the elected voters voted against it. It is an advisory referendum; the Chamber can put it aside. Legally, at least. But of course it cannot be democratic. You cannot allow millions of people to go to the ballot box for a referendum and then go to a yes, but not to a no. On Friday, Prime Minister Rutte responded to the results. We have also received a letter. The cabinet says it is not going to ratify without saying so, but it is also clear that the cabinet is not going to implement the "against" to the law, the treaty. For this reason, the Prime Minister gives the involvement of EU partners and the fact that this is an unexplored area. That's right, but didn't the Prime Minister know that before the referendum day? However, he did not say anything in advance to the voters. He has been waiting for the results and now, afterwards, acknowledges that as far as he is concerned, a real no is simply not possible at all. Now the Prime Minister is going to do some sort of sociological investigation into the background of the no. The main concerns mentioned are that the Association Agreement would imply Ukraine becoming a member of the EU in the long term and that military cooperation would also include a security guarantee. This is in itself a useful interpretation, which opens the way for ratification without amending the Treaty. After all, the Treaty does not say anything about EU membership, nor does it say anything about a security guarantee. But the point is: we do not know what the arguments of the counter-voters are, no more than we do know what the motives of those who remain at home or those who vote for them are. And we don't need to know that either. There's only one thing we know: the results. That is that the majority of the elected representatives opposed the law approving the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement. The CDA therefore considers that there is no other way than to repeal the clearance law. And I say this with pain in the heart, so I say honestly, because it is a good treaty and non-ratification is extremely painful, also for the position of the Netherlands. Dutch entrepreneurs are getting worse because they have worse conditions for trade with Ukraine. We all suffer from it, but at the same time: a referendum has been held and this is the result. The opponents of the Treaty also have a great responsibility, especially here in the Chamber. Because we know what they're all good at, but what are they for anyway? If the camp does not want the Prime Minister to interpret the vote against it, it will have to respond in any way. Voters do not have to provide their no with a viable alternative or a justification; political parties in the Chamber do. I see there are interruptions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u72	I suggest you complete your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u73	Agreed. It's a worthwhile contribution, so I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u74	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u75	Yes. And there may also be standing listeners. That's not a problem. Now I come to a major point of criticism of this referendum, which has led to this result that we are all concerned with today. Democracy is not a laboratory in which you can experiment without consequences. 4 million real Dutch people went to real polling stations on 6 April, where they really voted. Costs: 40 million euros. Result: one big question mark. The cabinet does not know what to do, and in any case a stalemate will arise in Europe. I predict that at the end of this journey there will be even less confidence in politics. For do not forget that 70% of this treaty has already entered into force. I see Mrs Thieme standing there. She has campaigned against the puffy chickens, but she has not mentioned that they are in the part that goes on, namely the trade agreement. In short, we have a referendum and that has been extremely difficult. I'll come to a conclusion. This is the core. The Hague politics can be a complex issue where yes and no are not equal, not about the fence discarding to the electorate, especially when it comes to an extremely complex matter that 28 countries have something to say about in different democratic spaces. Not only to govern, but also to represent the people is a responsibility. This sometimes requires choices that are not popular, but we motivate those choices and we are paid for them in elections. That's democracy. Finally. Who is going to evaluate the chaos that has arisen in the end? The Referendum Committee that provided the subsidies for toilet paper is going to evaluate itself. The same goes for the Election Council. An evaluation of the law is not planned at all, and of course that cannot be done. I ask the cabinet to do so or the Chamber itself must take steps to enable an independent evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u76	In his speech, Mr Buma indicated that he was in pain about the result, namely that the treaty was now rejected. Last April, of course, the CDA Group voted in favour of ratifying this treaty. Then why has the CDA Group not campaigned fully in favour of this treaty over the past period? Why didn't the CDA tape bus booths? Why didn't the CDA do anything to make the CDA sound before the treaty? Why was the CDA group just invisible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u77	What kind of question is that? The CDA is campaigning as the campaign should. We did not ask for funding for a campaign, like Mrs Thieme, who received three grants. So we have not had any money available. I've been where I could be. I said very clearly there, until the last day, that it is a good treaty. I said that a yes is an exclamation point and a no is a very big question mark and a drama. And indeed, 62% is against and so it is not going to happen. This has created a problem, because no one knows what else to do. The government and also the CDA say: do as requested and withdraw the proposal. We also know to you, Mr Klein, that there will then be a great question mark. That's the big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u78	The CDA, apart from the presence of Mr Buma himself in various TV programmes in a few rooms perhaps and independently of the presence of Mr Buma, I have to say that it has not campaigned as we have, for example, done. Mr Buma should not now blame it on getting or not getting a grant. The fact that the Party for Animals has applied for this subsidy is justified. The fact that she just got that settled is a good thing. The fact that she's using that is justified. That's what I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u79	Well, I can tell you...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u80	It's very simple. You should have. Then you should have just said: I am going to campaign for accountability, because that is my point and explain why I voted for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u81	I will tell you: the CDA is against referendums like this, because you cannot answer a question digitally with yes or no. Then it's not so crazy that the CDA isn't leading the way to asking government funding to campaign. You can do that, but I wouldn't, if I were you. Because you run a campaign on your own terms and not with a grantor's. We'll never do that. In any case, I wouldn't have campaigned for a penny more. I was there, where I was supposed to be, until Tuesday night before. Sunday I was at the Dam. I'm very much in favour of the treaty, but it's become a no. Then you can't say, "God, I'm sorry, we're gonna do a yes." But it's bad. It's bad for you, too, because you were also in favour of the treaty, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u82	We have indeed been able to carry out a very large and powerful no campaign, clearly with success. I would like to touch on the fact that Mr Buma said that it is bad for entrepreneurs that this treaty has been said no. After all, it would be so good if this free trade agreement were to be put in place to support entrepreneurs. Has Mr Buma not received the letter of fire from NEPLUVI, the poultry farmer sector? It says that laying-battery eggs banned in Europe can be exported to the European market if this treaty is actually ratified. This is at the expense of Dutch and European farmers. Has Mr Buma abandoned his claim to be the peasant party of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u83	I have to tell you, the part you mention is the part that's in the 70% that goes on anyway. You can blame me for what you want, but I really blame you for campaigning, not telling me that everything you were against is going on anyway. That is also the problem of this whole treaty. We have held a referendum on a treaty where 70% is European; 27 other countries participate. And that's just a really big problem. There is only one point: you cannot hold a referendum on this, because it is folly-faced. That's what happened. The Netherlands went to the polls with a lot of people; 4 million, very seriously, to real polling stations. Then they come back from the polling station and what turns out? 70% has already entered into force. You knew that, Mrs Thieme, but you didn't tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mr Buma has, however, quietly protested against the fact that the battery eggs could enter the European market because of this treaty, but in the end he simply voted for it at the expense of European farmers. But the part that has entered into force, in which it is indeed about the free export of battery eggs and puffs, is provisional. And that is for the time being because it has not yet been ratified, as the Treaty shows. Therefore, if it is not ratified, it will no longer be possible to maintain that provisionality and it will have to be withdrawn. Does Mr Buma agree with me that this should be done as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u85	No, because that's not gonna happen at all. The Netherlands can withdraw it, but this part can close Europe, and that also closes Europe. There are 27 countries that want to. We have also discussed this with the European Treaty on the Constitution. We had a referendum against, the Spaniards had just had a referendum before. That's insoluble. I am not making that up, but it is not possible to hold a referendum on something that plays in two different democratic spaces. You should have known that, and by not saying that, you also fooled people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u86	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u87	I very much blame Mr Buma for saying that I have not said something. The fact that it is a provisional entry into force of that trade part of this free trade agreement means that it can also be taken back, because the Netherlands does not ratify. Mr Buma, if he is the peasant party of the Netherlands, should make a strong effort to do so, because now he is leaving European farmers in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u88	I don't get it anymore. I have to do something now because that would be bad for the poultry sector, a sector that Mrs Thieme is also opposed to. So it's not clear to me at all. There's only one thing I know. We just asked in advance. My colleague, Mr Omtzigt, referred in advance to the Prime Minister, who remembers the moment when the question was on his desk, and asked which part of this treaty will enter into force for the time being because it is a trade treaty. We all know that it is not the individual countries that conclude trade agreements, but Europe that concludes them. Europe does not say if the Netherlands withdraws its signature: we will not continue. The other 27 say that all of Europe is going to close it itself. You have also told the electorate that there will be no treaty, that there will be a very big question mark and that a large part will remain. That makes it even more difficult, so I say: such a referendum leads to major problems. And we have it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u89	Mr Buma says this evening: it is a big question mark, as far as I am concerned. At the same time, he pointed out that the Treaty had enormous advantages. That's why we both voted in favour. We're both against referendums. Last week's referendum was an advisory referendum. Can I ask Mr Buma why he wanted to make it a binding referendum as an opponent of that kind? Because that's what he actually did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u90	No, I'll tell you what position the CDA took. I would advise the VVD to do the same. It is not binding; it is a council. So the question is whether the CDA will take that advice. We have said in advance that we will do so if it becomes a no and if it becomes a yes. Why? Because a lot of people go to the ballot box and don't do that with in mind "Oh, it's advisory; we'll see what The Hague does with it." People go to the ballot box for a referendum. That is why a consultative referendum is so worthless. It can't be seen as advisory. In the case of the European Constitution, too, the CDA thought in advance: 'Well, there will be a result and it will be advisory'. One second after the results, maybe one CDA guy thought so. Everyone knew immediately: it's off the table. And that's what's happening here. So I can only say one thing: if we want to take democracy seriously in any way, we recognise that real people have gone to real polling stations to really say no. Then we can't interpret. Others have rightly said no is no. You don't ask why someone votes for the Lower House on the CDA or the VVD. People don't have to say that. It's a digital no on whether you're for or against. It's turned out to be a bad thing. I think it's a tragedy. It's a problem for the cabinet, but I can't say afterwards: well, I'm a little disappointed; we'll do whatever we want anyway. Then it's over with the trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u91	The simple fact that you think it's a worthless tool doesn't relieve you of the obligation to do your job as a representative of the people? If you don't like the cure, you won't be relieved of the obligation not to increase the disease again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u92	That's the big problem. The CDA doesn't make the ailment any bigger. The ailment is incredibly large, because it creates a mess. I just indicated that. However, it is a no. There's nothing else I can do. 4 million people have gone to the ballot box. For example, I think it is very relevant that 68% did not show up. Why? That's what I'm curious about. Didn't they think it was important? The creators of the law have said that this doesn't matter. All that matters is 30% or more. The law is the law. That's how we made it here, with a CDA vote against. Really: when one comes across, you don't get away from following it. I really don't think it's any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mrs Thieme, you've just been here. Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mr Buma has just said to me in an interruption that you cannot undo what has already entered into force. I have some questions for me in the Chamber with the government's answer on the question of how far you can withdraw that Convention which has entered into force for the time being. The cabinet says: "The provisional application of a treaty that will not be ratified cannot continue. Provisional application is aimed at the expectation that ratification will take place." So again the question to Mr Buma: is it simply unwillingness? Does he want to continue to push through the treaty, with the result indeed of those battery eggs and the puffy chicken meat on the European market at the expense of farmers? Or didn't he know what the treaty was like for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u95	No, I'm gonna outline what's gonna happen. It is not the case that only the Netherlands lives in Europe. There are 27 other countries. If this treaty cannot continue because the Netherlands says no, the other 27 countries will say: we want that trade agreement. What does Europe do? That is what this treaty takes out and closes it as a Europe. I don't have to make that up, but I will. That's what I'm pointing out to you. You too must tell your constituents what is going to happen. You can tell us that it will be taken back, but we all know that those 27 countries really don't think after that: oh, Marianne Thieme was against in the Netherlands because of the puffy chickens, so now we shouldn't go on. No, they want to move on. Then the problem arises that there is simply a trade agreement. Then I tell you, I predicted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u96	The problem is that these 27 Member States simply want to move forward, while the European people are slowly getting real tobacco from the fact that the train called Europe continues to permeate while referendum after referendum is being said: stop now and make sure that we simply do the right things again, which benefit people, animals, nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u97	Now Mrs Thieme herself is being interpreted. It has made all the other 27 countries just as quickly into referendum countries and concluded that in all 27 countries the population is opposed by a majority. Their democracy works differently. Perhaps there are people there who understand that it is very difficult to grasp such a treaty in a digital yes or no. In the democratic area of Europe, Europe has been allowed to conclude those trade agreements for a long time. I see what Mrs Thieme was the last to say in support of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr. Chairman. The minutes of this referendum are clear. There's a valid rash. The government then sits in the hair and writes in the letter about an unexplored terrain, while the only correct response is as ready as a cube. Article 11 of the Advisory referendum Act is unambiguous in this respect. Do not take the necessary time on a step-by-step approach that will take some time. No, stop stalling and make this a priority. The government must take immediate action and propose a law to repeal this ratification law. In addition, in the last few months, what was the 65% of the people's representatives who voted for it in full last year? In the run-up to this referendum, they could and should have been able to answer to the citizens for their choice in parliament. In addition to my own "for is positive" campaign and that of D66 they were completely invisible in the public debate. A typical case of head in the sand, fingers not burning, or worse: voting in favour last April and now advise against. The real setback for me is therefore the total apathy of most of the supporters of this treaty in the Chamber. That is, in my view, a real failure for a referendum to be taken seriously, a real disgrace. Do not be surprised, therefore, if citizens continue to turn their backs on politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u99	Madam President. First of all, thanks to the initiators of this referendum: GeenPeil, the EU Citizen Committee and the Democracy Forum. Last week we had a referendum. The Dutch word for referendum is "people's consultation." The people have given a very clear advice against it. The cabinet now has two legal options: to ignore the outcome or finally to do what the people want at home and to repeal the law that it concerns as soon as possible. Unfortunately, it would not surprise 50PLUS when the cabinet tries to deal with the results very selectively. After all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs suggests that he wishes to refer to the referendum on the basis of the debate in society. But that is not how it works, because the debate has gone many ways. Anyone, for or against, could and can pick something out of his taste. The cabinet seems to be doing the same now, but there is a clear result. That's what the Cabinet needs to do. So it must or should not ratify, and not something in between. Because with what article of law in the hand does the cabinet legitimize its choice to take, as it says, "the necessary time"? International conventions enter into force on a regular basis without the signatures of all the countries concerned being signed. What is the government's opinion on this? And yes, I admit that 50PLUS voted in favour of the Treaty last year, but listening to the voter and considering everything, we have changed our opinion over time. That should be done by a lot more people's representatives. In an open economy like ours, it is fine to strive for good trade relations, but we do not need an association agreement for that. If the citizen says no, he or she means no. Finally. I'm already dreaming about the next referendum. Wouldn't indexing pensions be a good topic for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mr. Chairman. We are in favour of more direct democracy. We are in favour of open and transparent decision-making. The result of the referendum has made it clear that there is a tension between representative democracy and a form of direct democracy. The referendum also made it clear that there is a gap between this Parliament and the people, and that this gap is perhaps greater than ever. The referendum has also shown that it has been saddened by confidence in politics, and that is worrying. The referendum's no is not just a no to the treaty. It's also a no to the back rooms. It's a no to the government's position. And it is a no to the lack of democracy in the European Union. We were in favour of the treaty, but the people decided differently. There is a clear statement and the government simply has to implement this as far as we are concerned. In the press conference after the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister referred to the referendum as "a complex process best served in the backrooms." I repeat: a complex process that is best served in the back rooms. He didn't want to say much about it. We wonder what the Prime Minister actually means by those back rooms. Where is transparency? Where is accountability? Are these backrooms not the reason why the voters have so overwhelmingly said no? I'd like a response. In fact, we do not have much more to discuss, because the voters have made a clear statement. We simply take it to heart, even though we voted in favour, and we call on the cabinet to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr. Chairman. The referendum on 6 April was valid and the majority of voters voted against the EU's association agreement with Ukraine. The first is nice, the second of course was not what the PvdA had hoped for. But that's the rules of the game. Congratulations are therefore in place, both for the initiators and for all parties, organisations and individuals who have worked for the no campaign. They have won this battle and we have to accept it. The result of course gives rise to reflection and self-reflection. For example, my own party managed to convince its own supporters of the importance of the agreement. During the campaign period, aid increased from 50% to 85%. But we have failed to get people to vote too, which is a very low percentage of 22%. In addition to today's debate on exactly how we should deal with our relationship with Ukraine, this result and the various analyses of voting behaviour, as far as I am concerned, also require a broader reflection. Once again, we see that different groups in society have very different views on the importance of European cooperation, on Brussels or at all on politics. It may be a little too far to go into this today, but I would assume that the PvdA is drawing this tension between the so-called undercurrent and the upper current in society. You can directly interpret the result as a motion of distrust of the people against the elite from Brussels and The Hague, as a colleague did. I found that a painful conclusion, because it was not about the Ukrainians anymore, about their ideals and their struggles, but I admit that it is certainly not possible to rule out the fact that people wanted to give out a strong slap in Gerdi Verbeet's words. That is also what concerns me. Then there is the question of what the cabinet should do with this result, because, according to the law, the ball is in the cabinet. It is no longer a question of whether the cabinet should follow the opinion of the electorate. In the meantime, all parties have put this in their own terms. We've done that ourselves before. The Prime Minister formulated his political judgment on the final night. So tonight's debate is not about whether or not to ask, but about what questions, how and when. In short, these are also my most important questions for the cabinet today. What exactly should happen to EU relations and Ukraine after the outcome? Is any form of cooperation definitely out of the question? Is that gonna be in the trash? Or is it worth discussing further the objections to the Treaty as expressed during the campaign? I think so myself. I heard a number of parties say the same thing tonight. In any case, in the latter case, those objections must be addressed. How does the cabinet intend to identify these objections? Is it prepared to engage directly with representatives of the neekamp? How should these conversations be designed? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that there have been more objections in the debate over the last few weeks and months than the two mentioned in the letter: the prospect of membership and military assistance? I think that's true. The discussions are therefore important in this respect. Moreover, there is also an important responsibility for the political parties that have used these objections in the campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u102	Are you almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u103	Yeah, almost. Then I'll do the last question. I've already asked the what and the how. In fact, only the question of when is still on the agenda. When does the cabinet intend to present the bill requested by the referendum law? After all, the law says: as soon as possible. Given the complexity, the PvdA Group understands that the cabinet needs some time to look at this, but urgency is needed. The voter is entitled to that, too. This last question is, of course, strongly linked to the question: when will we be talking to the other contracting parties, the 27 EU Member States and Ukraine? I hope, by the way, that this has already started. But is that right? With who? What did it get you? How does the cabinet see the trajectory from today? In conclusion, it is not a question of whether we should do justice to the results, but what, how and when. These are the questions we are debating today. I ask the cabinet to speak clearly on this, perhaps a little more comprehensive than in the letter, so that the voter and the non-choicer know what happens to their voices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u104	After this contribution, I am still puzzled with the question as to what the PvdA Group itself actually thinks. Before the referendum, the PvdA was very clear: if one is against, the referendum must be followed. I am curious about the position of the PvdA now that the referendum has been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u105	I started by asking whether, if there is a clear outcome, this should have consequences and be respected. My party has indeed said so at an early stage. If I remember correctly, that was about at the same time as the CDA. Other parties joined later, sometimes only on the election night. The Prime Minister did that on the final night. So it is absolutely true: there must be consequences. It is important that we talk to each other about how this is done and in what order it is done. Earlier today, this has been the subject of discussion. I have also expressed my view on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u106	Now there are two digital possibilities in this law, which the PvdA helped to get through this Chamber: one is that the government takes over the referendum and thus takes back the law, the other is that it continues. Those two possibilities are there. Which one should it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u107	That's exactly what's going on here. The cabinet must submit that decision to us. We must then make a judgement on this. Only I think it makes sense that, before you do something like that, you're first in conversation with the other parties in the treaty. Of course, Mr Buma was absolutely right when he said: what happens when the result is a no is a question mark. In fact, the cabinet has already indicated this, in answers to questions from among others the CDA Group. Even then, the cabinet said that this is an unexplored area, a complex situation, which will have to be discussed. That's exactly what's going on right now. So Mr Buma was right with his question mark. However, it is now important that the cabinet should soon engage in this discussion with the other EU Member States, as well as with representatives of the Neekamp in the Netherlands, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u108	That law belongs to the PvdA and that law doesn't have the opportunity to think again about what to do. Your party has said: we are doing it. Yes sorry, it was against and that means the option "repeal the law." You only have one option, but I have the impression that you mean we could do the second one. In that case, you will make the referendum as much as those who say: do what we want. You wanted this referendum. You were cheering about democracy. Democracy has said to us and the PvdA says: well, we don't know yet; the cabinet has to come up with something. You need to think very carefully about what you've done with this Referendum law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u109	The debate on how the referendum went and what it means is still going on. This requires an evaluation, which will undoubtedly be the subject of a strong debate. I believe that the cabinet has indicated that it will come with an initial response immediately after the summer. I think that's very good. I have already told Mr Buma that he was right when he said that a complex situation would arise after a no. That is absolutely true, but I follow the law and the law says: the cabinet must come to the Chamber with a proposal to withdraw it or to present something else. I'm not making that up, because that's exactly what the law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u110	So this is the answer of the PvdA to the simple question of all Dutch people: are you for or against the approval law? This answer! Listen to it again and then understand why it is absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u111	I didn't hear a question, but I did hear a response. I believe that Mr Buma wants to hold a debate on the referendum as an instrument. That has happened before here and it will happen again after the summer. Then let us have that debate and now let us talk about what we expect from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u112	Exactly! Let's talk about what we expect from the cabinet. Again, D66 has done everything in its power to make it a yes and it has not succeeded. We then made it clear what our group thinks should be done now. Almost all the groups have just clearly indicated what they think should happen now, and the cabinet is about to respond to it. That's right, but the PvdA will also have to tell itself what it's going to do to shape its big mouth for the result: we're going to respect the result. It is not a question of the Referendum law or what the cabinet should do, because the PvdA will really have to state what it expects of the cabinet. You can do this clearly here and now by saying what you are going to do to do justice to the Referendum Act, which is part of the PvdA. What's the PvdA gonna do with the results now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u113	I just told you that. I believe that the cabinet should talk to representatives of the neekamp and the other parties to the treaty. I believe that the cabinet should only present its conclusions to us afterwards. We may differ on that. Mr Ten Broeke just had a nice metaphor about his divorce proceedings. I'll leave that to him, because you can also compare it to a labour dispute. If you're offered a contract from your employer that you don't like, you can do two things. You can rip it into a lot of pieces and run it through the shredder and then say: I'd still like to talk about a few extra vacation days or a bowl with it. You can also take that thing with you and talk to that employer about possible improvements with the contract on the table. Then, in this case, the cabinet has to see the result to us and then it's up to all of us to weigh it. I think that is exactly what Mr Verhoeven is proposing, because I have heard him say in his own speech and in interruptions that he thinks it is important that the objections are identified. That's a little tricky when you've already run the thing through the shredder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u114	This is not about relations between men and women and between employer and employee, but about the relationship between political parties and the electorate. The Labour Party has strengthened this relationship by telling everyone that it would respect the outcome of the referendum far before the referendum. We were told everywhere that D66 should have done the same. Why not give that clarity to the electorate, Mr Verhoeven? Because we didn't know the results, I kept saying. Now there is a result and one simple question from the entire House of Representatives must be answered by you, Mr Servaes, namely what the PvdA thinks should happen now. Every time that question is asked by Mr Buma, now by me and in a moment by Mr Grashoff, you say: yes, it is up to the cabinet to decide. Just tell me what needs to be done. Yes, we need to talk to the other Member States and we need to talk to the neekamp, but first we need to have a repeal law sent to the Chamber. That's what the Referendum law, a law of the PvdA, literally prescribes. That's what Mr Servaes wants, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u115	I just explained that I see that order differently. That is a difference of understanding about the strategy, the way you can achieve results. Mr Verhoeven can make a different choice with his party, but I think it is only natural that, if you have signed such a treaty with a number of parties, you should first return to them and explain what the Dutch people have said and what concerns were involved. Then it's only decent to start that conversation, isn't it? A conversation never made anyone any worse. I do not understand why Mr Verhoeven wants to go through the shredder first and then have a conversation. I predict that's gonna be a bad conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u116	Really rounding up, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u117	I think it's pretty important...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u118	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u119	...to clear up where the PvdA stands now. She is not clear about that herself. So I will simply have to ask questions to this coalition party to get clarity. I do this because the PvdA kept saying that she would respect the results. Mr President, I would like to mention two facts side by side, and then put a short question to Mr Servaes. Fact one: the Labour Party has always said that it will respect the outcome. Fact two: the PvdA is co-subsist of the Referendum Act, which requires that, if you want to respect the outcome, you have to send a withdrawal law to the Lower House by the Cabinet. One fact combined with the other is very simple, isn't it? I note, as I have just said, with pain in the heart for D66, with pain in the heart for all those people in Ukraine who would have liked to move forward and with pain in the heart for all those people who have campaigned. But then the answer is that the two facts added together mean very simple: listen to the voter, follow the law, so repeal law to the House of Representatives, point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u120	I have the law and the articles here in front of me. Indeed, it is quite clear that the cabinet has two options. So that's obvious. It also states that it must be done as soon as possible. I would urge the Cabinet to do so as soon as possible. However, as it asks in its letter, we can give the Cabinet room to use the next few weeks to engage in the conversation, both within the country and with international partners. Mr Verhoeven does not do that. He says, "I'm gonna throw it in the trash first, and then I'm gonna talk to other people." That's a choice, a strategy. I don't think that strategy will work. Ten Broeke has mentioned a number of examples of countries that were faced with similar situations and that have not, in any case, worked in this way. Ireland is the best example, I think. That's a difference of opinion about strategy. That's fine, and hopefully all parties will be free to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u121	I'm gonna build on this. Mr Servaes himself says that there are two options, and that is what we read with him in the law: it is either confirm or withdraw. I can now imagine, in view of what Mr Servaes said both before and during this debate, that there can be no confirmation, because that is not respect for the outcome. Then there's only one option left, and that's moving in? If you don't do that now, you'll at least make the appearance in the direction of the Dutch voters that, with all good intentions, you won't do what you said. That is an extremely risky matter when it comes to the credibility of Dutch politics, of Mr Servaes and of me, because it radiates at all of us. Does Mr Servaes agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u122	I think it's a difficult question. Does my assessment, with my strategy, which I have just explained, which is motivated in substance, which is based on previous examples from the EU's history, have just been mentioned, and which, in the existing complex situation, demonstrates reasonableness, the prestige of politics? I don't think so. I think we need to explain that correctly. There is a difference, however, let me put it first, with, for example, the situation in which there would be a referendum in the Netherlands on, for example, the Sunday Act. On the first Sunday following such a referendum, we can determine whether or not there will be Sunday rest, because that referendum will only concern ourselves. When a treaty is discussed, it is different. That is why I commended Mr Buma for the way in which he explained on the eve of the referendum that it is extremely complex. He called it a question mark. I thought that was a good description of the situation. We shouldn't run away from that. The cabinet will eventually have to implement the law and come to the Chamber with a proposal. The difference between the Sunday Act and an EU treaty with another third party is obvious. Once again, I think it is reasonable to allow the cabinet some time, not too long, to enter into that discussion, also on the basis of the substantive concerns which Mr Grashoff considers important that they play a role in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u123	It's about the latter. If you want to create space to talk again about what is moving people and to make it clear that a no to this treaty does not mean a no to any form of cooperation or treaty, then it is important to clarify it first. I ask Mr Servaes once again. If you follow this strategy, it doesn't really matter whether it's about the Sunday Act or this treaty? This treaty has been rejected by the electorate, so this treaty is off the table, in the trash can, in the freezer box or whatever. Then, if we operate very wisely, there can be another opening to talk about something. Is it not the Labour Party that is taking an extraordinary risk of confusing these two things in such a way that we are going to make a pot of it in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u124	I'm threatening to repeat myself. I think that if we follow the strategy the other way around, we will take an extremely high risk that there will be no more conversation at all. Mr Grashoff says that this treaty is off the table, but that there is a treaty to talk about. He's actually very close to the possibility that there is now. I predict that's a bad strategy, if that's the goal he wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u125	It is precisely that you need to give clarity to the voter before you can look at this again. If we vote here on legislation and the law is not adopted, it does not mean that you do not necessarily need or wish for legislation, but that is the law. If we do not indicate that starting point, Mr Servaes will not find it strange that we are about to bring about an incredible violation of the confidence we all did not want in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u126	What are we talking about now? It is not about whether we vote on this today, tomorrow or next week. We could give the cabinet a few weeks. Minister Koenders is going to Brussels again next week for a meeting with his fellow foreign ministers. I hope he doesn't start studying for six months on what he brings in there. I hope he will start that discussion right away next week. I also hope that this discussion will lead to conclusions within a reasonable time. I think it's a reasonable time limit until the summer. You'll have a few European meetings. So we're not putting anything on the long track. You may take a little time for consultation with treaty partners and for hearing objections from the neekamp in the Chamber and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u127	For the sake of clarity, does the Labour Party not really want this proposal simply to give the Cabinet the opportunity not to file a repeal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u128	It is interesting that Mr Van Bommel is now asking this question and that he said in his own speech: it has to go completely; it does not come back; we are not talking about it anymore; the electorate has been clear and has not expressed an opinion. On the evening of the vote, his colleague in the European Parliament was asked whether this result would mean that the treaty would go to waste. He replied: no, of course not; it does not go to the trash, but we do have to look at the objections. He mentioned two in this case. What I propose is exactly in line with what SP MEP Dennis de Jong proposes. I am surprised that Van Bommel is now surprised at what I am saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u129	I am asking for the meaning of Mr Servaes' words. We are not discussing the words of my colleague in the European Parliament this evening, which I believe are still misrepresented. We discuss the cabinet's position in response to his letter, which does not implement the Advisory referendum Act. The position of the Labour Party is not clear. Should this Consultative referendum Act, Article 11 thereof, be implemented or not? If you say that it must be implemented, you will eventually also have to plead for the filing of a repeal law. Do you, Mr Servaes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u130	I'm in favour of the cabinet implementing the law. I think that's a very simple question. The law states that the Cabinet will take a decision as soon as possible and inform the States-General accordingly. I think it is important that the cabinet does so as soon as possible. I say how it should use that time and where that could lead. This is, by the way, suspiciously similar to what your own colleague has said, Mr Van Bommel. When asked whether he felt that the whole treaty should be put in the trash, as many Dutch think, Mr De Jong said: "No, we have to negotiate this very hard. We must throw military cooperation out, and we must even look at parts of the trade agreement." That's a very logical reaction. Perhaps it would be good to discuss this with your own colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u131	No, it's what the law says at this point. The law does not say: talk to people from the camp or European partners as soon as possible. The law says: to file a repeal law as soon as possible or, in the case of a yes, the rules for the implementation of the law. As the Labour Party has repeatedly said before the referendum to take over the result, I think you can only do one thing, and that is to agree with the request to the cabinet to come up with a repeal law. If you do not do so, then you will break your word to all the voters you have spoken to, to the 4 million people who have taken the trouble to go to the ballot box.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u132	That conclusion cannot be drawn by Mr Van Bommel, because there is no vote for it now. If there were a proposal from the cabinet today to bring the treaty into force, to ratify it definitively, you could have voted against it from me by the PvdA Group, Mr Van Bommel. Of course, the PvdA Group had voted against it. If in a month or two, after those talks, it turns out that the cabinet can do nothing with the concerns of the Dutch, I expect it to present a repeal law. That's exactly what the law says. That makes perfect sense. That is the way you can deal with my group and with nothing else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u133	Could I ask Mr Servaes how he thinks it is that the PvdA is now in the polls at about eight seats?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u134	I would ask our guests in the public gallery to show their emotions as little as possible, however understandable it is that this happens. It was a funny joke, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u135	It's not a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u136	That is what Mr Martin Bosma says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u137	I'm glad it's true. But why do you think that is, Mr Servaes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u138	You always have to laugh at jokes. You can't object to that. I don't know if this is the time or the place for that. If you have a specific question about what is on the agenda today, I would be happy to discuss it with you, Mr Wilders. By the time there are elections again, I think it would be an excellent time to debate the general commitment, performance or non-performance of the parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u139	Let me help you. The reason that you reached 38 seats in 2012 and now in the polls on "What is it? A seat or eight is precisely because you, your party, are doing what you are doing now. You promise people golden mountains and do the opposite. You say to the people 'we will respect the decision' before the referendum and now you raise a big middle finger and say 'look at it, we are not there for you, we have lied and we do not care'. That's why you're standing on eight seats. I predict that if you go through with this, the number of seats will go down even further than those eight. That would be wonderful for the Netherlands, but I assume you still want to retain something from your electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u140	I think it is an extremely interesting analysis. However, I note that while Mr Wilders said earlier that other people should not be able to analyse that no vote, we should not be able to identify the objections expressed by people and allow them to take into account how we proceed, he is actually doing exactly the same thing. He also interprets that no-voice. I just read a tweet of his. He interprets that voice as something that has nothing to do with Ukraine, but as a kick against the elite in The Hague and Brussels. That's an interpretation, too. He interprets that voice as: there is only one possibility with your own initiative law, namely to put that rejection law to the vote tomorrow. That is his right, but that is also an interpretation. Then I also have the right to interpret what is being said. Then the cabinet also has the right to interpret what is being said. It's either one or no one interprets, or everyone has the right or maybe even the duty to interpret the no-voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u141	Again, that is not an answer to my question. My question was: how is it that your party almost disappears from the political spectrum in all polls? That's because the PvdA promises to follow things, like the result, which it doesn't follow. You have just been lying to your constituents and the people, Mr Servaes. You refer to a law that says that one of these two laws must be filed as soon as possible after the result: withdraw or not. As soon as possible is not until summer. As soon as possible is not two months. As soon as possible, as soon as you can find a pen to sign that withdrawal bill. It'll be as soon as possible. If you don't, your party will go much further down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u142	I really didn't hear a question. I've heard all kinds of predictions, an extremely interesting analysis but no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u143	What is the point of Mr Servaes saying that the electorate would have said: first, after the no, talk to the treaty partners and people who have campaigned, and then, if necessary, propose a repeal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u144	That's not what the voter said. I have just argued that none of us can interpret what the voters have said. You can't, Mrs Thieme. As you cannot say that the electorate has only one wish, namely 'off the table, that treaty, and I do not want to have anything more to do with Europe and Ukraine', I can say that they have made such a specific proposal. However, we have a duty here in Parliament to advise the cabinet now to choose a route. It's my advice to talk to the neekamp. I did hear those voices from the no-comb. I think it would be wise for the cabinet to listen to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u145	It is quite clear how we organised the referendum, isn't it? If there is a "no" to the Cabinet's approval law on the Association Treaty, then a repeal law should then be proposed. Surely we should not first talk to all kinds of treaty partners and the people of the counter-camp? I do not understand where Mr Servaes gets the freedom to take that space. There just needs to be a bill to withdraw.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u146	Once again, the law says: one or the other law must come as soon as possible. I have argued here that it would be very easy if it were the Sunday Act or for my part the law on the ritual slaughter here in the Netherlands. These are laws that concern only us. I said earlier that Mr Buma was right when he said that it was more complex in this case of an EU international treaty with a third partner. I think it is a matter of decency to sit down with those international partners first. It doesn't say in the law that you should do that. It doesn't say in the law that you can't do it. I think that's a sensible route. It shouldn't take too long. It should not be a question of the long job after which we never hear from it again, but as far as I am concerned it must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u147	So what is the objective? What is the purpose of the talks with these international treaty partners? To appease them a little bit? To reassure them in the sense of: we will get out, we will deal with the fuss here of the Dutch people and then we will come up with some kind of amendment to the treaty? Surely the outcome should simply be either the entry into force of the Convention or a withdrawal bill? There's no third flavor, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u148	That wasn't really a very open question, because soothing, reassuring and doing nothing else is obviously not an option. Suppose the cabinet would come back in a few weeks and say, "Listen, we brought it up, people don't see anything in it or just want to give us a douche bag." Then the conclusion can indeed only be: withdraw, that bite! I agree with Mrs Thieme, but the fact is that the cabinet has asked for some time to conduct these talks. I'll give it to you that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr. Chairman. We have had the first consultative referendum under the guise of our new law. The result is clear: the electorate rejected the association agreement with Ukraine by a large majority. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the voters of GroenLinks were in favour of this agreement. The GroenLinks-choosers have also emerged in large numbers and have voted in favour in even greater numbers. I therefore find it painful to note that our new democratic rules on the referendum require us to say that this cannot go on. You will have to do justice to the outcome of this referendum, however painful it may be. If you are going to cover that up or soften it, there is a great risk that it will eventually increase the misery and that the lack of confidence will grow rather than that confidence will be strengthened by this democratic instrument. That risk is now very high, because the cabinet does not now seem to want to push for a repeal law. This has extraordinary consequences, in the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. If you want to interpret how to deal with this no, if you want to see what is or is not supported or where the wishes of the Dutch people would be found, this association agreement will have to leave the table first. In this respect, we will at least have to start with a clean slate in a formal sense in order to be able to have another discussion. If not, then all the discussion that is taking place today will appear to be against itself; the appearance of trying not to do justice to this referendum. That would be a two-time loss. The government's letter mentions only two arguments from the no-comb: the fear that the agreement is a stepping stone for EU membership and the fear that the EU would become militaryly involved in Ukraine. That is little, because many more arguments have gone over the table. I have also heard from many opponents concerns about corruption in Ukraine and the extent to which this agreement really contributes to combating it. I have heard opponents who thought that the agreement would only benefit large companies and that it would not benefit the average Ukrainian. Can that concern really be met in any way? The question is not whether we should interpret the 'no', because we will have to interpret it, because the referendum did not say: there will be no association agreement whatsoever. This association agreement has been voted against and we will therefore have to reinterpret, but this agreement will have to be withdrawn first in order to do so fairly. GroenLinks remains in favour of cooperation with Ukraine, if there were any solution to this. The EU needs strong neighbouring countries. The only possible result is even more instability at the external borders of our European Union. There is therefore an expensive duty to do so in any way, but it must be a priority that we now do justice to the outcome of this referendum. The law of withdrawal must therefore now be submitted and then we will discuss a solution with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u150	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has spoken. A large majority of voters who have taken the trouble to vote say no to the free trade agreement with Ukraine. My group has campaigned strongly against it because we do not want to be associated with corruption, child labour, animal suffering and oligarchs, which are funded by Dutch and European banks and score high in Panama Papers. The figures were more than clear. 61% voted against, 38.2% voted in favour. Crushing figures for those who thought it was okay with the population. The stakes were high. If a Dutch entrepreneur with business interests in Ukraine flies in colleagues of D66 by private jet to exchange views with the President of Ukraine, it will not be about nothing. If VVD'er Hans van Baalen says with a sigh in his voice that the people of Ukraine should be so thanked for her resistance, it will not only be because of his revolutionary breast. If the Dutch National Entrepreneurial Agency receives a warning against child labour offline before the referendum on a day-by-day basis, this will be more related to commercial interests and not to the fact that child labour is no longer present in Ukraine. Chicken farmers and the Party for the Animals for the first time in history campaigned unanimously against the Free Trade Agreement, because it is quite unacceptable that Dutch banks and Dutch megatalbuilders build hand-in-hand chicken factories and battery cages against which European poultry farmers cannot compete. During the campaign, the supporters of the treaty suggested that all substantive grounds would by definition be invalid and that it would only be the choice for Juncker or Putin. That question was not before the referendum, although this framing was persistently applied at cabinet level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u151	I would like to ask Mrs Thieme whether her hatred of the European Union is now greater than her love of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u152	I would very much like to see cooperation with as many countries as possible, because the Animal Party is fighting for a world without animal suffering and without human suffering. But free trade agreements - that is what GroenLinks must agree with me - do not work towards a just world. They only facilitate multinationals and oligarchs. This free trade agreement with Ukraine is one of those. I was therefore very surprised that GroenLinks, which is so fiercely opposed to TTIP and CETA, is in favour of a free trade agreement with Ukraine. Apparently, love for the United States of Europe is greater than the importance of protecting humans, animals, nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u153	That agreement, which should be rejected in this way, states that Ukraine must adapt its animal welfare standards to those of the European Union. If that's off the table, it won't happen. We agree that the European level of animal welfare requirements should be raised. Does Mrs Thieme agree with me that this means that we are losing the opportunity to put animal welfare requirements at least at European level in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u154	You really have to be very naive to vote for a treaty that includes agreements with the most corrupt country in Europe to do something about animal welfare somewhere in St-Juttemis, because there is no deadline for doing anything about it, while Ukraine's Minister for Agriculture said last year that animal welfare is absolutely not a priority and even child labour is not even being tackled in Ukraine. In fact, the negative side of this treaty was obvious: battery eggs, which are banned here in Europe, could enter the European market because of this free trade agreement. As a result, not only do you ensure that laying-battery eggs in Ukraine get even more megasthals, but also that in the Netherlands and in other European Member States farmers will find it rather difficult to compete with cheap chicken and egg-battery eggs from Ukraine. GroenLinks certainly shouldn't be for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u155	I think that the monstrous alliance between the Animal Party and the Chicken Sector has really surprised me, Mrs Thieme. Batteries are prohibited in Europe. They would be banned by this treaty in Ukraine. Mrs Thieme is losing that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u156	There is no mention in the Treaty of banning battery eggs. In addition, the Dutch banks ING and Rabobank have invested 170 million euros in battery egg systems. They would never do that if it were then banned. On the contrary, they believe that this free trade agreement offers every opportunity to produce and sell as many laying-battery eggs as possible on the European market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u157	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u158	Also the palaver about the turnout and how many people would have voted against, indicates how much the established order refuses to take the voter seriously. There was a decent turnout threshold of 30% built-in. That threshold has been reached. A serious rethink has been promised on a no. The population has not given a mandate for a marginal change to this free trade agreement. No, it rejected the treaty. In 2005, the population said no to the European Constitution with almost equal figures. At that time too, we were convinced that we were campaigning against it. At that time, the turnout was 63.3%, but that did not cause politics to take the outcome seriously. The European Constitution simply came, albeit with a different chaff. Many voters then became alienated from politics. Probably why the turnout was lower this time. That's what politics can charge for. Even before the day of the referendum, the Minister of the Interior tweeted hopefully that a Royal Decree would automatically be followed by a 30% turnout and the Treaty would automatically enter into force. Even then, there would be no interest in the relationship between opponents and opponents. The cabinet now opts to postpone execution, perhaps even to come forward with a response in September. That's an outrageous flight forward. That feels like a blow to the voter's face. Is the Cabinet prepared to refrain from ratification? When will the repeal bill be presented? Will the cabinet make every effort to reverse the conditional part of the treaty that has entered into force? That is the part that makes it possible to import battery eggs and puffs from Ukraine and all products that are also produced with child labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u159	Mrs Thieme ends every contribution of her to the House of Representatives with one standard sentence. Probably the representative of the Animal Party, Mrs Thieme, has forgotten that phrase, perhaps because she has made a sort of pact together with the organisation concerned, because suddenly she does not mention the bio-industry anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u160	Oh, I'm so happy with this "bis, bis"!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u161	So I ask Mrs Thieme, who always ends with a comment about the bio-industry, with which she has now worked so closely, to say that last sentence loudly and clearly...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u162	Yes, thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u163	... so that everyone knows that it is a mistake, that heavy lobbying cooperation between the Animal Party and the chicken farmers, the bio-industry and all the other organisations that kill poor bugs without having any reason to do so, just because Mrs Thieme wants to be against a treaty. I'd like to create that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u164	There's four seconds left for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u165	Thank you for this invitation. We want an end to the bio-industry, both in Ukraine and in the Netherlands. As far as referenda are concerned, we have also got a good taste. I would like to go with D66 to organise a referendum on the TTIP Treaty, which is particularly bad for chickens, cows, pigs and all the other animals that are currently being abused in agriculture. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u166	Thank you, I say to Mrs Thieme. And if she wanted to do something about the chicken industry and the bio-industry in Ukraine, she should have voted in favour of the treaty. Next time we will talk about the next referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u167	We know from D66 that she does confess animal welfare with her mouth, but that when it comes to free trade she always chooses multinationals and oligarchs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u168	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u169	Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of the Foreign Minister. In fact, only two types of questions have been asked. I'll try to answer them both. The first question, which is the least important, I think, but it is relevant to evaluate this referendum and the system of referenda. I have heard very well what the Chamber has said about this in terms of independence and in terms of acceleration. I propose that the cabinet send a letter very soon, indicating how these various wishes are handled. That can then be discussed separately. In that letter we will try to meet the various wishes as best we can. We need to find out very precisely, because the law provides for who evaluates what. That's all for sure. Anyway, I heard very well what was said about independence and speed. On both points, the cabinet wants to deal with the Chamber. I only ask the Chamber to give us the opportunity to do so in a separate letter and not to work it out in detail tonight. The Chamber can count on us to do our best to accommodate it in this. The main question before us is: how do we deal with the outcome of this referendum? A lot has been said about that. Let me say a few things on our side. That is not a very long speech, Mr President, so we could do it in such a way as to keep it complete. I think that will take up to five minutes, and I am sure many more questions will follow. But if things go differently and are interrupted in the meantime, I am, of course, open to that. With the result of the referendum, you actually have three options. Firstly, you can decide to ignore the outcome and say: it is a consultative referendum; we will continue to ratify it. We could have done that. There was that option. On Wednesday evening, as you know, I immediately said that there can be no immediate ratification of the cabinet. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the option that a no in the referendum will lead to a: yes, we will continue to ratify in full. So that option is gone as far as we are concerned. I have the impression that this option does not exist in the entire Chamber either. In fact, two options remain open. That is what we see in tonight's debate. The first option is no is no. There is no doubt about that option. The cabinet does not choose to do so, because I shall say it very briefly. No is there in the cabinet's eyes that the country is out of play. We're really out of the game. Then there is a good chance that, for example, the 27 other countries will continue, intergovernmentally or otherwise. There is a great risk that nothing else will happen with the 'no' vote except that the Netherlands is outside a completely continuous agreement. That's an option. The other option is: no is a clear statement. Something has to happen with that no. I see that Mr Buma has now come forward, but he shows that I can finish my introduction. At least that's the third option. When you say that something must happen to the no, you immediately... You notice that among the parties that say: we want something to happen to the grievances that came forward. I've heard different parties say that. You'll hear the inconvenience. They say: if you do so and do not submit the repeal law first, the uncomfortable feeling arises that you have the appearance that you are going to ratify eventually. A number of parties have made this very clear. I get that. I would like to make it clear to the cabinet that we are really a step further together. So far, we have used the wording that this does not mean that we can simply ratify. If, over the next few months, I come to deadlines and so on, as far as I am concerned, for the summer, but I am going to go so far as to fail to respond to the fact that the cabinet and our assessment are sufficient for an important majority in the Chamber, then it will not be ratified either. That's my reaction to that inconvenience. I have heard several people ask: why is that necessary? If the cabinet were to say: we are now going to talk in Brussels to give a place to the various grievances that have been made, but first we are going to withdraw the law that was there and which was referendumable, then we will lose our entrance ticket. That is the paradox we are dealing with. So we've lost the entrance ticket for the calls. Then those conversations are pointless. No one's gonna talk to us about that anymore. First of all, it is quite clear that if by summer it is not possible to reply to the outcome of the referendum with which we can and can go to the farmer, including to the Chamber, the cabinet will propose not to ratify. Well, that's obvious then. At the same time, now decisions not to ratify and then have those conversations means that you have lost the entrance ticket for those calls. Then you won't be at the table anymore. Finally. This needs to be done as soon as possible. Why can't the scenario I just outlined be in the next few weeks? That is for the simple reason that the UK referendum is also playing. Our political assessment and the first signals we get from our European partners are that they want to get rid of it first. That referendum will take place on 23 June. That must be over before we want to talk about this openly. That doesn't mean anything can't happen behind the scenes. But the open discussion in Brussels on this can only lead to conclusions. As far as we are concerned, this must take place very soon after 23 June, so clearly before the summer. I see a number of people at the interrupting microphone now, but I would like to say the following. It's very simple. No is: yes, we don't. Or, no is no. That is the position of Wilders, of the Socialist Party and of others. That is perfectly clear. My conclusion is that you're completely out of the loop. The risk is that everything will continue and that only the Netherlands is on the margins, including our companies, everything. Or it's: no, we're gonna work on that. If that does not lead to a result that we can submit to the Chamber and to the Netherlands, it is clear that we will not ratify it. But getting rid of that ratification law already means that we have lost our entrance ticket for those talks. Then there's no point talking anymore. Then the signal will be in Brussels: they will not ratify, so we are not going to have these talks anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u170	I'd like to try and save this treaty with the Prime Minister. The problem we all face is the fact that a referendum has been held with a digital demand. The digital question was: do you support the approval law or not? The question wasn't: give us a ticket for conversations. It's turned out to be no. The Prime Minister now interprets this as: you actually want a ticket to talk about a possible amendment to the treaty. The CDA would like to agree with him, but it's not. They said no to the treaty. The Prime Minister must have known in advance how frustrating this was for any further talks. He should have said out loud in advance: this is what we are going to do. It now seems as if the cabinet only woke up after the no and suddenly on Thursday morning thought: hey, we have a problem. This problem was in the referendum. It's become a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u171	Mr Buma is actually right from A to Z. Still, I'm going to come to a different conclusion and I'm going to explain why. He's right that if there's a referendum, there's a simple question ahead. I also got that note that said: Are you for or against the association agreement? It did not say: are you for or against membership of the Netherlands of the European Union or are you also angry at the cabinet or do you also want pensions to be indexed? No, it said: Are you for or against membership...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u172	Sorry, it said: Are you for or against the Association Agreement with Ukraine? That's what it said. So it's a simple question that can be answered yes or no. But now it is coming and Mr Buma is actually giving the answer in his interruption. This is a multilateral treaty, so you have two choices. You can just follow it, as Mr Buma says. Then I will ask those who advocate this route or do justice to the no vote, if you finally have to come to the conclusion that maybe everything goes on but without the Netherlands. Is that what the no-shooter wanted? In addition, there is another choice and that is also allowed by the law. We have heard a number of dominant themes in the weeks of campaigning and discussion. There are several elements: the list that the cabinet sent yesterday is not exhaustively what we want to work with and which we are trying to give a place. But if you want to, you have to keep the option on the table that eventually you won't rat if you don't get what you want. It's perfectly clear. That's the inconvenience you have against appearances and maybe you won't rat out eventually. I am referring specifically to that here. As far as I am concerned, there will be no ratification at the end of the journey if we do not achieve the result we want. Then you also do something with what emerged in the debate in the political discussion dominantly. The group of D66 and other groups suggested that we start talking to the various organisations that made themselves strong in the referendum with the question: are you prepared to do so? Of course, that's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u173	Here is the problem that a referendum does not ask for motives. So the Prime Minister can investigate. Again, I'd love to, but it didn't happen. There's a real law. People really voted. I am convinced that if politics is going to interpret that for the Prime Minister and for all of us now and move to some sort of yes, then ultimately confidence in politics will be even lower than before the referendum. I warned you about that, but it's there. Unfortunately, it is a digital question and everything the Prime Minister says is part of the campaign for it. That's why we said this. Perhaps the Prime Minister could have said it louder, but people felt they should have voted against it. That is bad for the Netherlands, bad for business, bad for our position, but it has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u174	There is that risk; Mr Buma is right, but we are all there. The cabinet, I can say to Mr Buma, does not come to the Chamber with the proposal to give a place to the no vote in any way if it does not feel and believe that it can resonate here too. I mean not only support for the coalition parties but also that it can have broad support in the Chamber. If there isn't that conviction, we won't. Then we will propose not to ratify. Mr Buma is right: there is a risk. But we need to have confidence in our own ability as politicians to deal with these kinds of complicated situations in the end. I will say again to Mr Buma that it is a multilateral treaty. It's not a national decision. I believe that Mr Buma mentioned the Sunday Act in his contribution, or someone else said it. Those are national decisions. This is a multilateral treaty. No is no means that eventually it can be the conclusion that everything goes on. I wonder if that makes the no-comb feel served, because that will then have the conviction that this is not the intention either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u175	Finally, we will never know whether the no-comb feels served or not, because the no-comb said no. That's all it had to say. Any credible answer to this question starts with: yes, we have heard; your answer to the question was: do not sign this treaty and at least get back that approval law. That's what it starts with. The Prime Minister must agree with me. If he lets that hang over the market, everyone will say: well, the cabinet leaves it hanging over the market. It starts with us not doing it. That is very bad for the Netherlands. But, yeah, we lost the campaign. It's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u176	Yes, then my reaction towards Mr Buma would be that it is not a corrective referendum, as he rightly said in his speech, but that it is a consultative referendum. That also leaves room for us to decide how we want to deal with the no vote as well as possible. This is particularly complicated here because it is also a multilateral treaty once again. That is my first reaction towards Mr Buma. Secondly, it is ultimately up to us jointly to determine whether what comes out of those talks we like or not. I say once again: if not, and if the cabinet feels that it is not able to deal with that no vote enough, then it is clear to the cabinet that we ourselves will propose not to ratify. Again: that already takes the entrance ticket off the table to have the conversation at all. No one in Brussels or anywhere else will want to talk to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u177	How dare the Prime Minister say the word "entrance ticket" at all? The voter spoke last week and said no. What the Prime Minister is saying now is a brutal blow to the face of all those people who voted and voted no. What's the Prime Minister doing? He left open the possibility that he would come back after consultation with his partners in Europe with, for example, a proposal to add a passage that was not intended to be a member of the European Union, or that it would not apply to military protection, in order to submit it for ratification. That's what he's trying to do and what's actually already in his letter. Be honest about that. However, that is not what the electorate wants. The voter did not vote for an entry ticket but an exit ticket, to say no and to say no is no; withdraw that treaty. Why don't you listen to that? It almost makes me desperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u178	I notice, and that's the last thing I want. Mr Wilders must therefore answer another question. That question is a pretty simple one. He says no is no. That's a clear position. The voter said no. Mr Wilders' position is that this must also be no. Then what does the noe camp get? The camp may get a situation in which everything goes on, but without the Netherlands. Is that what Mr Wilders wants? You're at risk. The alternative is that the Netherlands has the chance to address the grievances that dominated the campaign. If that is not possible, then I will still come to the position of not ratifying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u179	It is not about what Mr Wilders wants. It's not what the PVV wants. The Prime Minister knows this: we want to leave the European Union. However, we are not the no-camp. Do you know who the neekamp is? Those are all those people who went to vote last Wednesday. It's not the PVV, not the SP, not No Peil. The no-camp is the people who voted. They don't want an entrance ticket, they want an exit ticket. They voted on the whole treaty. How much confidence do you think that people still have in you as Prime Minister or in politics when you start talking about an entry ticket after the no, or if you go to Brussels instead of signing the lifting or withdrawal treaty? People don't believe in politics anymore, do they? You don't want that on your conscience, do you? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u180	Mr Wilders says it's as simple as he sketches here. I disagree with him. Anyway, it's a legitimate position and he's taking it here. We think differently about that. However, let us assume that Mr Wilders is right. It is then strange that the parties that have fought for the no... Not for nothing D66 asks the cabinet to talk to those people. D66 has also offered to see how to deal with that no and how to give it a place. We want to have that dialogue. I respond to Mr Wilders, who now says that D66 voted yes. That's right. D66 was for a yes. Now that it's a no, however, D66 thinks it makes sense for the cabinet to talk to the no vote as well. I agree. If it was so simple and so black and white that those who caused the referendum said "no is no, point," why do they ultimately come up with that suggestion themselves? Mr Wilders did not react immediately last Friday, saying that this was unspeakable. I understand that from his position. You can see that you can have an informed debate about this with each other and that it's not as simple as he sketches?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u181	Madam, the Prime Minister, with all due respect...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u182	Madam Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u183	Madam President and Prime Minister. With all due respect, you are again making the mistake of thinking that the politicians are the neekamp. That's not true. It is not that you are submitting a budget or millions note and can see how the majorities lie and that you can do business with the opposition. I still understand that. However, the camp is not here in the House of Representatives. The no-camp isn't the initiators either. The Neekamp is the 2.5 million people out of the 4 million who voted last Wednesday. They went to the voting booth and voted no with the idea that their voice matters. They're when they're watching television right now incredibly angry. They do not understand and think: we voted no 2.5 million times and now Prime Minister Rutte says he does not have an entrance ticket if he follows the camp. Those people don't want an entrance ticket! They want an exit ticket. They want you to say: you are the no-comb and I respect your vote; I have asked you for an opinion, I follow that and I say no to the treaty. I will not try again, but I really do not understand why you are asking for advice from the people and then talking about talking to Europe. In this way, we will lose the people's confidence in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u184	Mr Wilders repeats what he said earlier. That position can be respected in itself, but we do not agree on one point. This is not a simple Dutch question, as was the previous question in New Zealand for a new flag: are you for this flag or that flag? On such a national issue or any other national issue, you have a choice and there is a clear outcome. This case is international, multilateral. What could be the effect of Geert Wilders' position? The end result of this may be that the no-comb has to come to the conclusion that everything actually goes on. Then we have not done justice to all the elements that emerged in the discussion, which were dominant. The Foreign Minister and I described a few in the letter, but there are more of course; it is not a exhaustive list. I would find it logical and obvious to us as politicians that we say: we want to serve the camp better than what Mr Wilders is suggesting here, because then you may end up completely empty-handed. I think it's worth a try to avoid that. My only question is then to give us that opportunity. If that does not work, then here is the firm commitment: then there will be no ratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u185	In asking for the opportunity to continue talking about the ratification of this treaty, my great concern remains that the price of the entry ticket can be very high, namely that it feeds the discontent of the citizens who have expressed a no more than it does. The example of the European Constitutional Treaty has been cited in the past. When it was said no to that, the treaty went off the table and an alternative came later. So it was not the original treaty that was finally said yes, because there was another treaty. Now the Prime Minister seems to say: I want to go through with the same treaty after a no. Doesn't that raise a lot of questions and displeasure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u186	I think the case was different in 2005. Then several countries said no, not only the Netherlands but also France. It was a treaty among the 28 Member States. It was impossible to put the Netherlands out of play there. For example, it was impossible to continue intergovernmentally for the other countries that were currently members of the European Union. In 2011, it was about how to deal with a strengthening of the Stability and Growth Pact. Britain was against it. At the end of the day, all the other Member States said: we are still going on together, without Britain. It is very possible that the final result of no is no, so the final result of the position-Wilders and the position-Van Bommel, would be that everything goes on but without the Netherlands. I believe that we owe it to each other, including the Dutch electorate who has emerged, to make at least a serious effort to do something with the outcome of the referendum, including the arguments that have been expressed in substance and become dominant in the debate, which are more than the two I have just mentioned. If that is not possible, I will come to the position of non-ratification. But I think you should try seriously. In fact, the paradox is much more true to the outcome of the referendum than when you say digitally: although it is not a national, domestic question but an international issue, no. The risk is that you'll end up standing aside empty-handed. With clean hands, that is true, but also empty-handed, for example, with the risk that Dutch companies will not be able to participate or participate very limitedly in all kinds of matters that do apply to the other countries. I'd think that's a damn shame, and that's why we should try. I hear Van der Staaij say: I might want to think along with that, but take this treaty off the table first. But then the signal to the rest of Europe will be that the Netherlands doesn't ratify, that you don't get into the conversations anymore and then people go on with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u187	Why say with so much certainty that there will be no more talk in Europe? Are these relations in Europe such that there is no room for manoeuvre if the people or parliaments of one country are told no? Is Europe going to continue? That is precisely the concern people have in the direction of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u188	No, I'm not saying that. It is good to put that very precisely. Our fellow Member States understand, of course, that there has been a development in the Netherlands which must be addressed in one way or another. That is perfectly clear. However, if the Netherlands starts the conversation with the communication "we do not ratify, point," then the conversation is pointless. We can also say: remember, we have in our jacket the instrument not to ratify and we will use it if these talks do not lead to anything. Then we have the chance to do something fair about the outcome of the camp. We do not have that chance if we say 'no is no', because then we are immediately out of the game. That's the position of Wilders and Van Bommel. And that opportunity will be greatly reduced if you first withdraw the present law and then start having conversations to do something with that outcome. I ask for room for the Chamber to give us a chance over the next few months, and I make it very personal and direct to try to do this, to do justice to the substance of the camp, and we promise that, if it does not succeed, we will still come up with a proposal not to ratify it. I ask the Chamber: give us this opportunity and do not ask us to withdraw the law in advance, because then these talks will actually no longer make sense and there is no chance that they will lead to anything. That is, quite simply, my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u189	What a splash from the Prime Minister! It would be in the interests of the majority of voters who have said no to the treaty to renegotiate this association agreement in backrooms, because otherwise the Netherlands will no longer count. Has the Prime Minister forgotten that all countries must ratify if this treaty is to continue? It is not at all true that everything goes on if the Netherlands says no to this treaty. In fact, the Netherlands simply has a very strong asset in its hands: it just doesn't happen, this treaty doesn't go through if the Netherlands doesn't ratify. We have a much stronger asset if we say now: we are withdrawing the approval law and we are going to look again at how we want to shape the relationship with Ukraine in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u190	It's really the other way around. If you want to achieve something in substance on the most important issues that have also been raised in the debate, then you must keep that leverage on the table. Then you have to say: listen, if it doesn't work, we won't ratify. But if you say "no is no" and you say you're not ratting, you're out of chances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u191	The Prime Minister is trying to get the no-voters to take a wild shot. He simply wants room to see if he can continue this treaty coûte que coûte by negotiating in back rooms and sells it as if otherwise the no-voters would still get the treaty they said no to. I very much hope that the Dutch people will pierce through such sprinkling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u192	I know Mrs Thieme is from the Party for Animals, but I don't recognize this spider.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u193	The Prime Minister's position puzzles me. Suppose conversations would lead to amendment of the treaty. Then I assume that the treaty will have to leave the table first in order to be re-raised in a modified way. So you're gonna have to rescind the law. If you do not want to do so for the time being, does that mean that you are suggesting on the European chessboard that the treaty can be maintained, while it is clear that the treaty cannot be maintained in this way on the basis of the right to the referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u194	What I want to achieve is that we can give a place to the issues raised in the social debate. Mr Grashoff is right that there is a whole range of possibilities. You can change the content of the treaty and there are all kinds of other possibilities. Eventually, you can come to the conclusion that it doesn't work. The Netherlands will not ratify and then abandon. But it's a whole palette. I hear, as Mr Grashoff himself says, a few parties here say that they find it valuable to try to achieve a number of things in substance. However, if you choose in advance the position not to ratify, my political and diplomatic assessment is that these talks do not make sense or are very likely to lead to results. Mr Grashoff does want to see whether there are things to be done. I think he literally said that he thought it was the "cleanest option" to get the treaty off the table first. I politely ask Mr Grashoff to increase significantly the opportunity to achieve something so that I can achieve his main objective. However, the risk that we will not be able to achieve anything is enormous if we do what Mr Grashoff asks on that point. I also listened to the inconvenience he made in his contribution, namely the appearance that you are not ultimately following the outcome of the referendum. I have already said what I said: if we do not like it and if we cannot come here with a result that we can be proud of, we will come up with the proposal not to ratify. I can assure Mr Grashoff that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u195	Is it not the reverse that the Prime Minister would be wise to say on the European chessboard: "Dear people, I have a law and that law simply says that if I want to follow the consultative referendum seriously, I should withdraw the treaty; that does not mean that I do not want to talk to you, but it does mean that I have to choose this order?" Wouldn't it be stronger if the Prime Minister chose that position on the European chessboard? So he's just saying fair and open: the first thing I have to do is say that I don't ratify this treaty and then we can talk about what might.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u196	Once again, if we really want to try to achieve a number of things in substance, I have heard a number of parties make a plea for this. I am asking for the opportunity to actually do so. It is my absolute conviction, but also that of the Foreign Minister and the entire cabinet that, if we first make the communication 'we do not ratify, but would you be kind enough to talk to us about what is next', then the door is closed and people will say 'clear, but then we will go on without you'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u197	Should it ultimately be the case, as the Prime Minister says, is it not the dilemma that you will ultimately have to choose in the Netherlands for the credibility of your own democratic system, if only from a long-term perspective versus short-term gain? Wouldn't that result in you saying: if it's not different in the end, we're just sitting on each other's backs; then it's just without the Netherlands? However, we have kept our backs straight here. We may then have a different position for the future and a different discussion here on new things that will also happen. It will not be the first and certainly not the last referendum to touch on matters relating to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u198	But then you pay a very high price. Mr Grashoff is right that there is a choice. In fact, members Van Bommel, Wilders and Thieme make that choice. However, I also outlined the consequences of this choice. First of all, it is very likely that everything will continue, but without the Netherlands. For Dutch businesses, civil society organisations and so on, all these benefits do not apply or to a very limited extent. On all matters covered by the Treaty, we are out of the question, including the contribution we can make to strengthening the rule of law and building the position of minorities. That's one. Secondly, the voter who thought no is no and that the treaty is off the table sees that everything goes on. The Netherlands will then only be on the sidelines with clean hands, while we will also have the opportunity to give a place to the content of the issues raised in the debate. So it is a very high price you pay for that, I say to Mr Grashoff. But, of course, we all have that dilemma. I'm making a very clear choice for myself. I sincerely want to do justice to the outcome and not give the pacifier to the no-voters in the sense of: look, we have clean hands, but everything goes on. That's a pain in the ass, but we've got clean hands. Or we say, no, we're going to try to give the themes that have been named a place. If that is not possible, I shall refer once again to what Mr Grashoff said in his speech, and we shall not ratify it. That's what we're all here for. Hopefully we'll know before the summer; I'm gonna do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u199	The Referendum Act, which the Christian Union Group was not in favour of, has two options: ratify or not ratify. Now the Prime Minister adds a third to it. Why didn't he tell the voters that in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u200	I'm not adding a third. I understand the question. What I do is interpret the law literally, because it says "as soon as possible." In order to be able to decide whether or not to ratify, we need these talks. The "as soon as possible" is immediately after the end of those conversations. We are, of course, getting a little worked up by the British referendum, because that is why it is not actually possible at the moment to conduct these talks, at least not in all openness. You can try to do things behind the scenes, but people will not want to do that openly, because that can interfere with the British referendum. So it can only lead to decision-making immediately afterwards, and I am going to do my best to do so before the summer. At that point, there's just one of the two options on the table. As soon as possible afterwards, we will then make a choice between ratifying or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u201	When in 2005 it was said no to the European Constitution, it was clear that this was a very uncomfortable situation, but it was also clear that the Constitution that was there could not go on like this. The analogy is very clear, and that is certainly true here too: the treaty to which it has been said 'no' will have to be adjusted and the position vis-à-vis that treaty will have to be another.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u202	Yeah, but then there's the question of how to do that. There is a whole palette of possibilities to the elements... I say it again: the two that are in the letter is not the limitative list. We are also going to talk to the people who caused the referendum, let me put it this way. I mean the people who collected those signatures and took the initiative. Other elements have also been mentioned in the Chamber by D66, the Christian Union and GroenLinks. We're gonna work on that whole list. If you start with that list when you've already said "we don't ratify," there's no more talking. So you really have to keep the option open that... There is a whole palette of possibilities to give the no-voice a place, because there are all kinds of possibilities. They run from ratifying to not ratifying and very much in between. You're gonna have to keep all those possibilities open. When you say "it's off the table anyway" you give a clear signal, but the chance of you realizing something, it does run back to zero. I ask the Chamber to sit down with us and give us that opportunity. That's a polite request. I hear a number of people say: I actually want that thing to leave the table first. I ask the House not to force us to do so and to give us that opportunity instead. I would ask this, with the clear commitment that it will not be ratified if it does not succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u203	It would have been far more honest to say in advance: "A referendum cannot be about a treaty. As a result, we find ourselves in such an impossible'spaghetti' that we absolutely will not get out and that we cannot do justice to the Referendum law, which says or ratifys or does not ratify?" Surely it would have been much more honest to clarify that story to the electorate in advance and to make it clear to him that he must be very aware that the choice lies with him, but that the government cannot do anything with it? If the government starts talking, it can end up somewhere in the middle of nowhere. Surely that honest story should have been told in advance? I note that that honest story has not been told.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u204	Apart from the qualification, I do agree with Mr Segers that you should look at it very seriously. I can give a procedural answer by saying that I will add the question of how to deal with that particular element to the evaluation, but the more political answer is that I fully understand what Mr Segers just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u205	Before we started this debate, the Chamber asked the government to publish the report on the discussion between the Prime Minister and Mr Poroshenko. Mr Rutte, the Prime Minister, has said today that he does not want to, but that he is willing to answer questions about that discussion. My first question is why that interview report cannot be made public, especially since Mr Poroshenko has informed his people on Twitter. My second question is what has been discussed and what has been promised to Mr Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u206	No commitments have been made. I have, of course, formally informed the Ukrainian President, even though he already knew about it, of the developments in the Netherlands regarding the referendum. He was in Japan on Thursday and returned from Japan on Friday. We couldn't make contact on Thursday. So the contact was Friday, after his return from Japan. He was aware, of course, but I thought it was right to do so from my side. I said at that time that the Netherlands remains committed to a good relationship with Ukraine, but that we have to work with this result, that there are clear signals in it, and that there is a very good chance that the Netherlands will not ratify eventually. I said that there is a real risk, but that the cabinet is going to look for ways to actually address the no vote. I'd keep him informed of exactly how we're going to do that. It was a short conversation. I have made it clear that it can also lead to non-ratification, but I said that we are going to try to address the no vote in one way or another. I'll be in touch with you about that, I said. That's point one. The second point is visa liberalisation. We have seen with each other that it is separate from the association agreement. This is an ongoing trial, about which I have told the President the following. For the Netherlands, in the case of visa liberalisation, we always sail on the compass of the European Commission in the first instance. It must carry out an assessment, an assessment of the state of play when a country wants visa liberalisation. Visa liberalisation is therefore not about free movement of workers but about 90 days' freedom of travel for tourists. We will wait and see what the European Commission comes up with. For us, it is very important how far Ukraine is to its assessment. We always reserve the right, of course, to have a judgment on this matter ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u207	We have heard from Mr Poroshenko that the Netherlands would have indicated that it is still in favour of visa liberalisation. Of course, that does affect the treaty. Article 19 is actually about visa liberalisation. Is it not true what Mr Poroshenko tweeted, namely that the Netherlands remains in favour of visa liberalisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u208	Visa liberalisation is independent of the association agreement. It's a separate trajectory. It's been going on for a while. It was also discussed with the Chamber. It is separate from the association agreement. This afternoon, during another debate on another country, we also had this issue cut, with a colleague from Mr Van Klaveren, Mr Bontes. As always, we are looking at what the Commission says. How far is a country? When the Commission comes to the conclusion that a country is ready, of course we still have the right to find something of it. The decisions on visa liberalisation are, I say, taken by qualified majority, and I think I am saying it correctly. That does not alter the fact that the Netherlands, of course, determines its own position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u209	Finally, Mr Van Klaveren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u210	As I have just said, and as everyone can read, the Treaty, Article 19, is indeed talking about visa liberalisation. Well, that's what's really touching here. Appointments come back, become binding and come back in the treaty. This has also been one of the objections of a lot of people who voted against the association agreement. Will we then be told by the Prime Minister that the Netherlands will be against this relaxation of visa liberalisation as a result of the whole story that we voted against in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u211	We need to keep a few things apart. Visa liberalisation is a separate process. It is separate from the association agreement. The discussions in the weeks prior to the referendum also discussed the free movement of workers. There was a concern that, as with Poland and Romania, which joined the European Union, free movement of workers could be achieved. Of course, that is not the case, because this is not about accession. I have always stressed this point in the discussions I have had with the various media.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u212	The Prime Minister is trying to fool the Chamber, but above all to fool the electorate. There is a clear statement by the electorate in the referendum. Now we have to wait until there has been a referendum in the United Kingdom, otherwise it could interfere; it could get in the way of each other. Moreover, the Prime Minister will first look at why no has been said, and then try to 'address' it, as he says so beautifully, in other words, to take it into account. But that's not twice what the voter said. The voter did not say: wait until after the referendum in England and see what we think exactly. The voter just said no. So why didn't the Prime Minister say before the referendum: yes, but we are also going to wait for the British with their referendum, and if there is a no, we are going to find out exactly why the voters said no and we are going to see if we need to make adjustments? If that was the Prime Minister's political commitment, why didn't he make that clear from the start?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u213	Mr Van Bommel has consistently confessed this evening to the group that says 'no is no'. That is perfectly clear. He has a clear position in it. I would like to outline the consequences, namely that, in my opinion, the people who voted 'no' are not doing justice to them. I do not think that, without taking the word 'pecker' in the mouth, it would be disrespectful to say that the 'no' voter might eventually feel that Mr Van Bommel has presented him with something he did not count on. I would like to outline that there is another way in which we can do as much as possible about the substance of this no-vote. I am in favour of this in the interests of democracy, in the interests of the 'no' vote and also in the interests of the widespread feeling that we should give this 'no' vote a place. I would ask the Chamber to give the Cabinet the means to achieve the maximum. These resources are largely taken out of our hands if we start this discussion with the announcement that we are not ratifying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u214	The Prime Minister is now speaking in his own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u215	No, no, I'm saying I'm not gonna put that in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u216	I heard him say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u217	No, I'm saying I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u218	I would, because the Prime Minister is now turning the referendum into a pacifier. He presents himself here as the champion of democracy, because he is going to respond even better to the no-thumb with an investigation into why one would have voted no and possibly with adjustments, additions, omissions or I know a lot about what. However, this has not been requested at all. Then the referendum question should have been another one. We've agreed as it is in the law. That law was implemented with for or against and the answer was against. I think the Prime Minister should be open and honest about his intentions. So don't come to me with the better that the Prime Minister would like to deliver in response to the no. The better thing would be to talk again, wait until after 23 June and hope that it can be completed before the summer. That is completely unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u219	Mr Van Bommel does not have a monopoly on democracy tonight. Together, we are trying to get the best possible response to the fact that in the end a no came out of this referendum. My point goes back to the discussion I had with Mr Segers; I have already said that I will go along with Mr Segers' analysis. If you talk about a multilateral treaty, then the digital application of no can be a very good result of the fact that the no-thumb does not feel honored at the end of the day. I just outlined that. We have the choice of making a pass and giving the cabinet the opportunity to address the elements mentioned in the social debate why people were very concerned about the association agreement. Give me that chance. Give the cabinet a chance, the foreign minister and me. We will work very hard on that. If that does not work, then we will come to the Chamber: yes, no is no, because it is not possible to give these substantive elements a place. If it succeeds, I think we have achieved a better outcome for the no-thumb than Mr Van Bommel is proposing. Mr. Chairman. That was, in fact, the summary of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u220	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u221	Could we have a 15-minute suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u222	I see no objection to that, so I shall suspend the sitting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u223	We will continue with the second term from the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u224	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister chooses to pass on his problems. He often does that, but now he does it at the expense of the electorate and also at the expense of the Chamber. The profit that this might bring is that it will no longer be a confrontation during the Dutch Presidency. Maybe he hopes or even assumes that the cabinet falls earlier, maybe he'll be saved by the British or maybe he'll see another way out. It's creative, though. The law offers two possibilities, namely to withdraw the law after a referendum or to implement the law. This Prime Minister creates a third possibility. With that third possibility, he ignores the voter and, at least as much, he blows up the Referendum law. This Referendum Act is used for the first time. For the first time, there is broad support for this in the Chamber and in society. The Court states that it wishes to take the ruling of the people seriously and, even in a majority, to take that decision. The fact that the Referendum Act is blown up is perhaps a welcome by-catch for the Labour Party and for the VVD. The Prime Minister's route to achieve something else after the United Kingdom referendum after 23 June, hopefully before the summer, is disappointing. To see what the electorate has said no to, the electorate did not ask for it. That's twice nothing. The electorate will strongly judge this breach of the Prime Minister's word on this political vandalism. That's why I'm putting a motion to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Election Council has established that there is a valid referendum;]] [[considers that the opinion issued by a large majority of voters to reject the EU-Ukraine Association Treaty should be followed;]] [[calls on the Government to implement Article 11 of the Advisory referendum Act and to submit as soon as possible a repeal law on the approval of the EU-Ukraine Association Treaty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Bommel, Van Haersma Buma, Verhoeven, Segers, Van der Staaij, Thieme, Grashoff, Krol, Van Klaveren and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34270-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u225	Mr. Chairman. I said it in my first term: this result hurts and the cabinet has a problem now. That saw D66 coming from a kilometer away and that is why we worked very hard for a yes, for a yes for cooperation with Ukraine. However, that was not possible and the law is clear. D66, as has just been said, has co-signed Mr Van Bommel's motion. Today, in this debate, there is a choice of sending out a signal. The Prime Minister wants to send a message, as he has just explained, to Europe, to the 27 other Member States. D66 opts for a signal to the voters. A repeal law must be submitted as soon as possible. Only then can we, together with the European partners, look at a constructive solution that does justice to the outcome. The Prime Minister has fought more for each other in Europe. He shouldn't underestimate himself. It is not without a chance, it is not pointless, it is not useless and the EU also needs the Netherlands for this agreement. D66 looks forward to that with confidence. It is also important to ensure an independent evaluation of this referendum. The Prime Minister's commitment, at the very beginning of his reply, was sufficient for us not to table a motion on this issue. The voter has spoken. The cabinet must respond to the results and I wish it every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u226	Madam President. The Christian Union Group is against Ukraine's accession to the European Union but for cooperation, and was therefore in favour of the Association Treaty. There has been a referendum, there has been a clear no and then the Referendum law, which we are not in favour of, says that there are two options: ratify or not ratify. The Prime Minister added a third: we are going to wait, we are going to talk, we are going to opt for ambiguity. That is what he is doing with a Brussels that, in an initial response to the 'no', shrugged its shoulders, which accelerated visa liberalisation and showed little acceptance for the no of the referendum. I think we should follow the clarity of the law and make the choice between one of the two options. That's the motion before you. That is the motion with the legal text that is being presented to us literally and the motion as the SP has tabled. I have co-signed this motion, because if we continue without listening, we will organise our own democratic defeat, our own democratic disappointment. The Christian Union Group does not want to go down that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u227	Madam President. The Prime Minister's answers are totally unacceptable. The voter is offended, humiliated, put in the garbage. No is no, Prime Minister. May I ask what part of the word "no" do you not understand? What part do you not understand? No is no! 4 million people were going to vote. 2.5 million people said no. And Prime Minister Rutte says, "Thank you for the ticket. I'm gonna negotiate in Europe. You, voter, get in the tree! Fuck your no." That is what the gentleman there in trade-K says to the Netherlands. "In a few months' time we'll see more," he says. So it will probably be a yes and we will have a repeat of the 2005 fraud. A Prime Minister who is going to talk for months in Europe and Kiev, who doesn't understand no, who insults the electorate, who doesn't listen to the outcome of a referendum and who doesn't understand that we should take the electorate seriously, doesn't deserve to be Prime Minister of the Netherlands. That is why I say, on behalf of the PVV Group and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I am convinced that, on behalf of millions of Dutch people, too, the Prime Minister is confident. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses confidence in the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34270-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u228	Mr. Chairman. This was an advisory referendum. We have been given a clear advice, which the VVD does not take away, and that advice was no. It was not a binding referendum, and I do not want to turn it into a binding referendum. There must be justice. As representatives of the people, we have a responsibility to achieve results for the 'no' and 'no'. The past also gives very good examples: the Danes in 2012 on the Maastricht Treaty or the Irish in 2011 on the Treaty of Nice. If you like this treaty and want to do justice to no in the interests of the Netherlands, but at the same time, then you also have to fulfil your popular representative role. This opinion has been delivered to us. I would like to make a start on this, knowing that nobody has the exclusive right to that interpretation. I therefore put it to you, ladies and gentlemen, to all 150 representatives of the people, to whom that opinion has been delivered. Together, we have a duty to do so. That is why I have tabled the following motions for resolutions on three elements, which we feel are doing justice to the 'no' vote. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the referendum on the law approving the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine has revealed a fear among a large number of voters regarding Ukrainian accession to the European Union;]] [[Whereas this Association Agreement should not lead to Ukrainian membership of the European Union;]] [[calls on the Government, at EU level, to oppose Ukrainian membership of the European Union and, in the same context, to object if other Member States attempt to achieve Ukrainian membership,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34270-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u229	Two more motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,]] [[noting that these articles have led to a lack of clarity as to their financial implications;]] [[Whereas any form of financial assistance as a direct result of this Association Agreement or outside the commitments already made in the IMF framework or within the framework of the EU Neighbourhood Policy is undesirable;]] [[Calls on the Government to first submit to the Chamber any form of financial assistance to Ukraine outside the commitments already made in IMF or EU Neighbourhood;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the real financial consequences of this Convention without delay,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34270-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u230	The final motion concerns military cooperation, on which much has been done. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine aims to promote cooperation in the military field pursuant to Article 10;]] [[Considering that, in view of the current violence in eastern Ukraine, this element has led to fuss and confusion about the possible consequences of this cooperation;]] [[Whereas clarity about the nature and limits of such military cooperation, with or without the entry into force of the Association Agreement, is of great importance;]] [[invites the Government, the nature and limits of military cooperation, as provided for in Article 10 of the Association Agreement, to explain and to inform the Court thereof by letter;]] [[calls on the Government to make known the Dutch concern about the implementation of such military cooperation in the talks in Brussels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34270-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u231	Mr. Chairman. We heard the Prime Minister talk a lot today, but he didn't really say anything. There is a valid result of the referendum. As many as 61% of voters have said they are against the EU Association Treaty with Ukraine. The law clearly states that the cabinet has two options and must implement the law as soon as possible. In the light of the results, that can only mean one thing: the treaty must be removed, altogether. It is an embarrassing display of the cabinet and that is why we co-signed the motion of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u232	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. In the first term, I indicated, on behalf of the SGP Group, that for us a repeal law is the most convincing and clear response to the outcome. I have listened carefully to the Prime Minister and I do not find his arguments convincing enough. His reasoning was in fact to keep the yes open to do justice to the no vote. He himself called that a paradox. I think the price of that paradox is an increase in discontent. The clear response is now to bring a repeal law to the Chamber and then to consider what alternatives are possible to do justice both to the no vote and to the good relations with Ukraine. For the SGP too, any consultative referendum, which we are not in favour of in itself, remains a consideration of how we weigh and appreciate its outcome. For my group, therefore, it is not an automatism, but rather the sensitivity of discontent over Europe, where many people feel that it is getting worse and that it is not helping to raise objections to it, makes us even more sensitive to the argument of looking for an alternative and not keeping it going. I realise that it is a complicated puzzle, but the fact is that we have produced a valid referendum here. I wish the cabinet a great deal of strength in putting this puzzle forward in a decent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u233	Mr. Chairman. As clear as the voters were in their answer to the short question during the referendum, so incomprehensible for them must be the reaction of the cabinet today. The Prime Minister almost begged the Chamber to go along on a path to allow the treaty to go ahead in the first instance, in order to possibly say no later. Otherwise, the Prime Minister says, we are missing a ticket at the table in Brussels and the Netherlands and our business sector would suffer a great deal, because the other countries are going on without us. In substance, the CDA believes that the Prime Minister might be quite right. It is also the warning we gave in advance to this treaty. However, there is a problem: the Prime Minister should have made it clear in advance that a citizens' no would mean a continuation of the Treaty. Now it ends in great confusion. It is not easy to charge the cabinet, because referendums like this always go wrong. An extremely complex problem, but the voter received a digital question and digital answers to that question. What's left is confusion, a big question mark. This does not restore confidence in politics, but more harms it. 4 million people really voted in real polling stations on a real question, and the result was really against. That is why the CDA supports Mr Van Bommel's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u234	Mr. Chairman. The voter's no becomes a "no" to the Prime Minister, if necessary. The fist that the Netherlands can make towards Europe, because an association treaty requires unanimity, becomes a finger on which the rest of Europe will shrug off. The result is that many voters now know for sure: in The Hague, politicians are mainly instead of representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u235	Mr. Chairman. The main distinction in the Chamber today was that between the parties who said no is no and that we are never going to talk about anything to do with the treaty again, and the parties I think there are a lot more people who said that we should really look at the content of the objections, that we should organise conversations and that we should try to do justice to the objections. Within the latter group, however, there is a difference of assessment of the order to be chosen. Yes, I say this particularly to Mr Grashoff, who put it strikingly, it is indeed a dilemma. What do you do first? And what do you get the most? We'll never know, because we can't let those two trajectories run parallel to each other. As I said in the first term, my party wants to give the cabinet within the scope of the law the opportunity to enter into talks. We want to give it time, but a limited time; it should not be endless. It's supposed to lead to something before the summer. I'm asking the Prime Minister to confirm three things very strongly here. Firstly, I ask him to confirm that we are not going to wait now, but to get to work immediately. I asked you in the first place whether it is true that the Foreign Minister is already talking directly about what is feasible and what is not possible on his next visit to Brussels, if I am right next Monday. Secondly, I believe that the Chamber should be kept informed. In that sense, I certainly agree with Mr Van Bommel, who says that we cannot be held hostage by the British Brexit debate. The other way around, the British wouldn't accept that either. So we're not gonna wait. I understand that this is a complicating factor, but there is a need to speak in the coming period and the Chamber must be included in it. We can't have radio silence until June 23rd. Thirdly, it must lead to conclusions, and that must always be within the law. An explicit decision must always be submitted to the Chamber: either a brilliant plan with which the cabinet comes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's clip-and-ready. I'd like that confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u236	Mr Van Bommel, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u237	My very brief question to Mr Servaes is the following. He's talking about "within the law," but where is that "as soon as possible"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u238	The interesting thing is that I completed that "as soon as possible" both in my first and second term. I share with you that we cannot wait until the British have finally finished their debate. We need to get to work on it now. Otherwise, it wouldn't be explainable. I find it strange that, in the motion you have tabled, you take over the phrase 'as soon as possible' without specifying it yourself. You could say I'm arguing for more urgency than you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u239	Of course, that is pure bullshit, because the spokesman for the Labour Party will at least give the cabinet the room to wait until after 23 June for the implementation of the law. As far as I am concerned, 23 June is not "as soon as possible." I think that's late. Does the Labour Party allow the Prime Minister, the Cabinet, to wait even until after the recess with the implementation of the law? Or does the Labour Party say that the law must be implemented before the recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u240	I've been clear about this. I find it interesting that Mr Van Bommel suddenly says: I think 23 June is too late. Then I challenge him to amend his motion and put a sharper wording in it, for example that it will be withdrawn by next week. In fact, he could spare himself the trouble and join Mr Wilders' bill. Because then he actually does exactly the same thing as Wilders. That's interesting to note. It is up to Mr Van Bommel to fill it out. I've done that before in the first term. I'm doing that again. I share his view that we cannot wait for the British referendum on 23 June as regards the work to be done by the Cabinet and the information to be sent to us by the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u241	Mr Van Bommel, you may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u242	With this circular reasoning, the spokesman of the Labour Party cannot conceal the fact that his party now gives the cabinet every opportunity to continue on the chosen path, which is not in the law and which in fact amounts to legitimizing the break of the Labour Party's word, not only towards the Chamber but also towards all voters in the Netherlands, to whom the PvdA has promised that the ruling of the Dutch people will be taken over in the referendum. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u243	The facts are that I did give a time indication and Mr Van Bommel did not. Then he can add a very bad campaign-like statement to that, but I challenge him. I'll do that here. If he wants there to be a sharp deadline, if he doesn't think the "as soon as possible" wording from the law is sharp enough: let's see it. Adjust your motion and see if you still have the support of all those parties, Mr Van Bommel. Bet it's gonna have to be withdrawn next week. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u244	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister was unable to convince us in his first term. The fact is that it is easier to negotiate on the European chessboard. Not that this is absolutely necessary, nor that this can reasonably be done within a credible interpretation of the no of this referendum. This means that, not with pleasure but with conviction, I have co-signed Mr Van Bommel's motion. It will have to be the case that, from a withdrawal, we will have to get back to work. That will be extremely difficult and I am not jealous of the Prime Minister, but I think that is the only way to do justice to the voice of the Dutch people here. We will also, but at a later date, have to look at this Referendum law and some aspects of it. That law certainly calls for an evaluation, but that is without prejudice to the fact that the valid outcome of this referendum must now be fully implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u245	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet doesn't take the results seriously. The Prime Minister wants the free trade agreement with Ukraine so badly that he turns the majority of voters, who voted no, into a wheel by saying that the treaty will continue if the Netherlands does not now negotiate the treaty. That is such nonsense; it is unworthy of a Prime Minister. All Member States must ratify the Convention, by unanimity, and if the Netherlands does not ratify, the free trade agreement with Ukraine will not go through. Those are the facts. The citizen must be taken seriously. In this debate, the Prime Minister continues the distrust of politics. We have therefore co-signed the motion of the SP which calls for a repeal proposal. At present, some 70% of the free trade agreement has entered into force provisionally, pending ratification. These trade agreements give Ukraine access to the European market with products that do not meet the requirements of the European Union. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that respecting the unambiguous outcome of the consultative referendum on the association agreement with Ukraine means that the Netherlands will not ratify the association agreement;]] [[noting that the provisional application of this Association Agreement is aimed at the expectation that ratification will take place;]] [[noting that the Cabinet indicated that the provisional application of a Convention could not continue unless the Convention was ratified;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the provisional entry into force of the Association Agreement is terminated as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34270-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u246	Free trade agreements have a major impact on democratic societies. Reference to the desirability of free trade agreements is therefore necessary. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Union and the United States are currently negotiating a far-reaching free trade agreement (TTIP);]] [[whereas a trade agreement between the United States and the European Union will have a major impact on our society by bringing about changes in democratic powers, in our rule of law and in regulations protecting privacy, working conditions, the environment and food safety;]] [[considers that such a far-reaching treaty can only be achieved if the population actively chooses to do so;]] [[calls on the Government to organise a (consultative) referendum on the desirability of the possible establishment of a free trade agreement such as TTIP between the European Union and the United States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34270-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u247	There is currently a petition for a referendum on TTIP that has already been signed by hundreds of thousands of people. I would very much like to ask the House of Representatives to simply organise that referendum so that the citizens do not have to go to all that trouble again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u248	This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u249	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u250	Mr. Chairman. First I go into a few questions that have been asked. Before I come to the motions, I would also like to make a general comment on the questions put. The situation is that I can answer the questions put by Mr Servaes: yes, we will get to work immediately. Furthermore, we will continue to inform the Chamber. I very much agree that this should really lead to conclusions and an explicit decision. That's, I think, important. Now I come to the more general question where we are now in the debate. I think there may be one more point that needs to be worked out. Look, I don't think we have a new lead in the discussion. It is, of course, about how you deal with the Referendum Act and with a possible no vote, especially when you are dealing with a multilateral treaty. The law says "as soon as possible." It is, of course, more complicated in a multilateral treaty to map directly the consequences of the no vote than in dealing with a matter that is purely national. So it is not so much a separate track, as some have said. In my opinion, it is entirely within the law that we should look at these aspects in this sense. A number of parties in this Chamber say: if you want to talk, you have to move in first and then talk. What I want to say at that point is actually very simple. Constructive negotiation only goes if you actually keep all the options open. I'm not talking about the group that says no is no. I'm talking about the people who say they're open to looking at how to deal with this no. It is really essential to note that you can only negotiate constructively if all the options are open, so if we take a constructive approach in the eyes of the other. That's where he sits, as far as I'm concerned. That constructiveness is really in the interests of the Netherlands. But I will answer Mr Van Bommel's questions first, and I shall go into them in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u251	The Prime Minister referred to this assessment as a political appraisal on his part. History has taught us things. That has already been mentioned by Mr Segers. In 2005 there was a tough no and the constitutional treaty was off the table. At that time, there was constructive negotiation, including by the Netherlands, even though it was not by this Prime Minister. Maybe we should get the old Prime Minister back. But it could have been. So where does the Prime Minister base his assessment that constructive negotiations cannot take place when the treaty is off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u252	As I said earlier, of course that was a different situation. We had to deal with the situation in which a country such as France had voted against. It was a matter which, first and foremost, affected the 28 EU countries themselves, and it was not an association agreement with a partner outside the European Union. That's a really different matter. Here you have to deal with an association agreement of the 28. I have just mentioned the other example in the first term. That's the 2011 Fiscal Compact. When the United Kingdom said 'we are not in the game', the 27 other Member States (then 26, because Croatia was not yet involved) concluded an intergovernmental agreement with each other. I will come back to the Dutch interest in a moment, but that is really the price we would pay if we went that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u253	Finally, Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u254	In the case of the Fiscal Compact, it is a different situation; it is a completely different treaty. What matters here is that in 2005 and certainly in 2006, the Netherlands demonstrated its full support for a new implementation of European agreements. The Prime Minister is running away from this practice, because he is apparently afraid that during the Dutch Presidency the 'no' will actually be a 'no'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u255	This is another conclusion. Again, of course, you always have casuism. I think that the specific case law of 2005 should be compared with the case law of December 2011, the battle for Brussels. Cameron who comes back to London and says "I won" and then the others who decide "we'll continue with an intergovernmental agreement without you." I think it is very real that this is going to happen here too. That is why I come to the point that being constructive is really in the interest of the Netherlands and that a no is not in the interest of the Netherlands at the moment. In fact, it is exactly as Mr Buma put it. He did come to another conclusion, but he made that point very pregnant. May I point out that our economy is one of the most open economies in the world? This means that we must not isolate ourselves. 2 million jobs in the Netherlands are directly linked to trade with abroad. We can't isolate ourselves. This is not in the interests of our companies and not in the interests of the jobs in the Netherlands. All these activities abroad lead to jobs here. That's crucial. As a cabinet and as a prime minister, we are constantly working on this. We're working on it in every possible way. It is therefore also my sincere conviction that we must do everything we can to ensure that we make a serious effort to deal with this no in a good way. I think we can do that, too. Once again, I have also said in the first term: if this does not work, the cabinet itself will immediately present a repeal law proposal here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u256	Mrs Thieme, a short question, because we have had an extensive debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u257	Did the Prime Minister hear what he said? It is not in the interests of the Netherlands. That is why he despises all those voters who have said that it is important to delete this treaty, to stop it. So the Prime Minister doesn't recognize the result. That has become clear to me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u258	Mrs Thieme misunderstood me. I said "a no right now." Mrs Thieme is one of the parties who say "no is no, point'. I've already explained that I'm not going to use the word "popping" in my mouth. I already made that joke. So I'm not. You don't hear me using the word "pop" either. Let me describe it a little more calmly and avoid the word "speech" with that. I just wanted to say that it really means that the no is not being done justice. People are really not being done justice at that time. There is a chance of doing something with that no in the multilateral treaty and that is why I very carefully did not say 'a no is not in the Dutch interest' but 'a no at the moment is not in the Dutch interest'. That really is an essential difference. So, Mrs Thieme, thank you for the opportunity to make this very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u259	Last question, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u260	The voter found on April 6 that the time had come to stop the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u261	Then I'll get to the motions. I'll start with the Van Bommel c.s motion. in piece No. 11. I have a question for you. Strictly speaking, it says that there is support for cabinet policy. In fact, if it is not possible to reach good agreements in Brussels, the Cabinet intends to put forward an immediate repeal proposal. This evening, in the debate, we see that the debate is concentrated to a great extent on the words'sustainable' and 'possible'. I have outlined the importance of a maximum chance of success in European discussions, which I am also asking the Chamber. You must avoid having to enter into these European talks with a statement or opinion of a very large part of the Chamber in this case saying: no, we interpret that'society'. Like this. I would like to understand this statement in such a way that the Chamber accepts that we do so as soon as possible, with the emphasis on the word 'possible'. A few references were made to the British referendum here. It's not like the British say you can't do this before June 23rd. I note that there is an inconvenience in Brussels to have this discussion before 23 June, because there is concern about the effects of the discussion on that British referendum. 'People' then are people in capital cities in all kinds of places, in the Commission and you name it. Whether or not to worry about it depends on the position you take. However, it is believed that this could have an effect. That is why I cannot say that I will deal with this in April or May. That will be as soon as possible. As far as I am concerned, that is before the summer and after 23 June, as I said. My question to Mr Van Bommel, as the author of the motion, is indeed whether he will give me room. Then I can consider the motion to support policy. We are going to do what is written here as soon as it is not possible to give the no a place in a good way. I ask him whether I can understand the motion in such a way that, where I know he really likes to interpret it 'as soon as possible' himself as soon as possible, he leaves the cabinet room to carry it out in such a way that we do indeed have that serious discussion as soon as possible and report on it to the Chamber in the interim. That is in line with my commitment to the PvdA, which I did a little earlier in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u262	The Prime Minister says that it would not be possible to reach a decision on this matter in May or earlier. "Lucking" however indicates being able, or having the ability to do something. That is not the issue here. What is missing here is not the possibility, but the will to do something. That's the big objection. The Prime Minister does not want to implement the law in the short term or as soon as possible. That is why I cannot live with the Prime Minister's explanation at all. Not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u263	I'm gonna try again anyway. I think there's been a misunderstanding. I want to. There's plenty of work on the board of the Foreign Minister and me. We are not waiting for lengthy talks in Brussels. However, we must look at a serious attempt to address the substance of the no. Once again, I know that Mr Van Bommel and I are thinking differently about whether you should try that at all. When I look at the signatories to the motion, I see that there are also signatories who say: in themselves we think you should try to do so. Some say that the law that is now before us must be removed from the table. If we all agree that this should not last a day longer than is necessary, with everything I have said about it in terms of deadlines, we could approach each other and we could reach consensus tonight. We are aware that the Chamber knows that not converting that no into acceptable results means that we ourselves immediately come forward with a withdrawal bill, in accordance with this motion as well. I ask Mr Van Bommel if that space is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u264	There is no such room, and it cannot be understood in any way by the contributions of my group or other groups. "As soon as possible" means that the will must be there to do so as soon as possible. There is nothing that actually prevents the withdrawal, other than the Prime Minister's will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u265	Well, and the Dutch interest, as I already outlined. Not that a no would not be in Dutch interest, as I said to Mrs Thieme. It is in Dutch interest to make a serious attempt. This motion, of course, has a meaning. That does not depend on whether or not it is adopted, given the signatories. That is just because such a large part of the Chamber says: we are sending Rutte and Koenders on the road knowing that we are significantly reducing the chance of this leading to something by saying this in advance. I'm just establishing it. We may disagree on that, but I think it's a fact. The motion in part No. I advise 12 of Mr Wilders. The motions on pieces No. I regard Mr Ten Broeke's 13, 14 and 15 as a means of exerting pressure and an incentive for rapid interpretation. Given that we have to have these talks, I would ask you to hold them now. They in themselves resonate with the cabinet, as my contribution to the debate so far has shown. I think it would be good to hold the motions for this moment and then we will take advantage of them. I see Mr Ten Broeke saying that he is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u266	At the request of Mr Ten Broeke, I propose his motions (34270), Nos. 13, 14 and 15). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u267	For the motion in part No. 16 from Mrs Thieme, I think that we should first try to do justice in one way or another and to follow up the no vote as closely as possible and then decide how non-ratification would work on the provisional entry into force. We have to work here one step at a time. The same applies to the motion in part No. 17. An advisory referendum takes place on the basis of a proposed law. There isn't one. Furthermore, it is not up to the government to organise an advisory referendum. So this motion seems untimely to me, and I'm going to dissuade her for that reason. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u268	Then we have indeed come to the end of this debate. A motion of censure has been tabled. It is customary to vote on this in the same way. I shall therefore suspend the sitting for a few moments, after which we shall vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u269	I'm asking for suspension for half an hour. Members of our Parliament are on their way here for this vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u270	I'll see if there's any objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u271	Perhaps just as practical: there was no request for a roll-call vote. Can we not just vote politically and not wait for all the members of all the groups to come back from home or from wherever they are?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u272	There has been no request for a roll-call vote as far as I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u273	I am not asking for a roll-call vote. I asked for suspension to have my MPs here on the spot. If that is not honored, it will not be honored, but I did ask. I can accept Mr Van der Staaij's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-7.u274	Thank you. Then we shall vote in a few moments.
