ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating for the umpteenth time the future-proofing of the public media service. When we first talked about this earlier this year, this was the ambition: it had to become future-proof. In the end, the debate was concluded mainly with doubts and doubts. This has led to the additions that the Secretary of State is defending in this house today. They are additions to the Media Act, which have already been passed in the Lower House. The Secretary of State received from this Chamber earlier this year an incompetence on the content. We can also say, I think, that he was given an incompetence for the trial. The legislative process led the CDA Group to say no to the Secretary of State's proposal earlier this year. The fact that the Chamber agreed to the proposal was not so much to ensure that what had been put on paper for national public service broadcasting was achieved in the short term. This would be supplemented. The main aim of the agreement was to give more solid ground to the regional broadcasters in the Netherlands. Today's irony is that just now that we are talking about the bill in its up-and-coming form, the regional broadcasters have recently pulled the plug on the project. I'll come back to that later. Under pressure from the Chamber, the Secretary of State promised that he would come forward with an additional bill. That's what we're talking about today. I am grateful to the Secretary of State for having listened to the Chamber in many respects. He has come up with a number of improvements that also appeal to the CDA Group. The improvements could perhaps have been a little better and different here and there, but in general the CDA Group believes that the law has improved through the additions. Are there any comments? Yes, there are certain reservations. We are still unclear as to how the relationship between the NPO and the individual broadcasters is secured. Borging is in several respects a word that has come back to the discussion of this bill in recent months. This is one of the most important questions that we would like to put to the Secretary of State today. The additional legislative proposal clarifies how the State Secretary sees the steering role of the NPO vis-à-vis broadcasters, but what exactly is the scope of that steering role is something that is still surrounded by a number of questions. Are the broadcasters really able to take care of the form and content of the programmes themselves? Are they themselves responsible for what they would like to bring on radio and television, digital or via the network? Can they decide for themselves who presents programmes? I know that there have been several discussions over the last few months between the Secretary of State and the broadcasters on how to interpret the law and how to deal with it. However, a number of questions remain. We would therefore urge the Secretary of State to explain how this guarantee of constitutional law is anchored, let me stress once again that this is the case with broadcasters. It is not for nothing that AVROTROS, KRO, NCRV and MAX broadcasters, which together have a majority of members, have put this forward once and again, and are also concerned. As the Secretary of State clarified in his earlier explanatory statement in this Chamber and has now put it on paper, the NPO must engage with the public. Public involvement must be anchored. Of course, that is always good and important, because as a broadcasting organisation you always have to know what you are doing and you have to match the wishes and desires of those who are on the other side of the image or speaker. The CDA Group once again raises the question of whether this is really necessary and whether it is unnecessary and unnecessary in this case. Doesn't it lead to more bureaucracy? Why is the CDA Group asking these questions? Well, we are truly convinced that those 3.5 million members who have joined the broadcasters and feel connected to our public service are more than anyone able to indicate what the public wants. We would therefore urge the Secretary of State to involve the broadcasters and their members in particular in what he has now requested from the NPO. What we are particularly pleased about is the fact that the Secretary of State has listened very carefully and has actually reversed his original ambition with regard to the selection and appointment of members of, inter alia, the board of directors of the NPO and with regard to the way in which the people on the supervisory boards are recruited. The appointment, suspension and dismissal of the members of the Management Board is now reserved for the Supervisory Board. It is clear that we very much welcome the fact that the direct influence of the Ministry, the Minister and State Secretary of OCW and of politics in general has come at a considerably greater distance than in the past. We welcome that. We have already indicated that it was an absolute wish of the CDA Group to make that cut. We believe that the Secretary of State has done the right thing. I would like to make a few comments on the position of regional broadcasters. In any event, I indicated that the legislative proposal presented to the Chamber earlier this year had to be accepted, because of the great importance that was at stake for regional broadcasters. The CDA Group indicated in the previous debates that the regional broadcasters were anything but in line. I have to say that this is also the case today. There was division between works councils and editorial boards on the one hand and management and management on the other. There was also a division between the broadcasters. That division ran from north to south and from east to west. One conclusion could be drawn, namely that there was anything but one ambition expressed by all broadcasters, their boards, their executives, their works councils and their editorial boards about the desired, at least as defined by the Secretary of State. We're sitting here with the fried pears. The Secretary of State informed us a few weeks ago that the additional legislative proposal on regional broadcasting is not yet in progress. The first question I would like to ask is: is there any idea when the supplementary legislative proposal will come? The Secretary of State says that the broadcasters do not yet agree with the chosen structure. This inevitably leads to the question of what this means for the austerity mission. The Secretary of State has said before: if delay has financial consequences, I am going to compensate it. In last week's letter, the Secretary of State wrote to the Chamber that there is no question of delay, but that this will be taken up in a later stage. So it's a form of delay. Does this mean that broadcasters will receive a different form of compensation, i.e. more compensation, in order to cope with what has been put forward to them? Is the 17 million-dollar cut going to stand? How do we proceed? There are broadcasters who have said: 'We accept the austerity and just go wild. We hear and see what is decided in The Hague, but we go our own way." The CDA Group is very curious to see how the Secretary of State sees this. The Secretary of State wrote to us last week that a concession policy plan should be drawn up by the RPO and that further steps should be taken. I'm sure it is, but what is the RPO at the time, if not all the broadcasters want to stick their hands together and move forward together? What's the RPO? What's this one? What are the tasks and powers of the current members of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Secretary of State? The CDA group is very curious about that, because it comes across very double. It does not reflect the care that we have initially advocated that the coûte que coûte bill should be continued. Now we see that there are really nothing but chunks on the road. What's the status? What will be the role of the RPO? How does the Secretary of State proceed? What did the trial cost? Isn't it a toothless tiger? Maybe I should use another word to indicate the position of the RPO. The CDA Group is very curious about this, but in any case believes that the position of regional broadcasters in general should be secured, either on the left or on the right. They are far too dear to us. We believe that those broadcasters, who attach their own identity and independence, should be able to retain their place. Finally, a comment on the promised consultation with the little province of Fryslân on the position of Omrop Fryslân, in particular on the second state language, the Frisian. The Secretary of State has previously indicated that binding agreements would be made in the short term, perhaps even financial agreements. What is the situation at the moment? What agreements have been made and what perspective is needed? What is the role of Omrop Fryslân, also in the light of the motion adopted by the Chamber with regard to this broadcaster? What are the place and position of Omrop Fryslân within that whole? If there are any new developments, the CDA Group will be happy to hear it. We are really concerned about the steps that need to be taken now and about whether there is sufficient progress and, above all, vision. We estimate that there is currently no vision of regional broadcasters. That means only one thing, namely that they must move forward on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about changing the public media system and the Media Act. The bill had to be adopted by the Lower House with great urgency and then by the Upper Chamber. When it appeared in that debate that there was insufficient support for part of the Secretary of State's plans, he suggested that some of them should be put into effect immediately, because the rest of that law could not wait. I have to say that the rest of that law has now been shut down by the Secretary of State. Mr Atsma just said the same thing. I think I used the term "broddelwerk" at the time. My colleague Van Dijk did the same in the Lower House at the time. To refresh the memory: a brag is a test piece that you make when you learn how to knit. Because you can't make even stitches, you get a patch with too big stitches, with large holes in it, but also with too tight stitches, where it's too tight. Last time I talked about the trial. Now I have to note that the result we see here today has also become gossip, with unclear legislation as holes and wringing decisions stabbing as close as possible. That is the result of a law in which almost every group here wanted to leave its mark. Some see this as a well-achieved result, but the question remains what has been achieved in the end. Indeed, this law still leaves unclear the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters and puts down a third party in addition to the members' councils of the broadcasters and the NPO: the Advisory Council. The way regional broadcasters are doing is completely dark. I know that this question is not before us today, but I would like to point out here that the Secretary of State has put everything into effect because that part of the law had to come into force. Perhaps he will be able to clarify the question of the 8.5 million with which he would help the regional broadcasters because of the delay. Although there are no written rules on how the First Chamber should take on its task, there is a reason why my party said last time that we would have preferred the Secretary of State to have followed the royal path. Now there is an amendment to a law which, in any case, the Chamber had to pass, to which many parties have cooperated and which results in part of the law never coming into force and another part of it stilling. I think apology might not be wrong here. But I also say, with my colleague, that this way of acting has prevented this Chamber from judging the law on its merits, because the political groups have attached their names to it. De facto, there is a law that does solve a number of problems, and Mr Atsma has already said that it removes a number of objections that the SP Group also had, but at its core is the same and causes some more contradiction. I left Tbilisi last night at half past two Dutch times, where I experienced the impressive experience of taking part in an election mission. The observation of the mission, as some in this Chamber know, involves more than just observing the voting booth on the day itself. The whole electoral process is being looked at. Georgia is a starting democracy. That is where we really need to learn how to organise this democratic process. Of course, that doesn't go very well. I heard that from people who told me about their observations. These had characteristics of our democracy, but that aside. The free expression of opinion, or the independence of the media, is of great importance and of great importance. It is often here in the debate that the comparison with the state broadcasting in Britain is made, as a wonderful example of how it could be done. Rarely are the downright bad examples mentioned. For example, we know commercial channels that have political interests. We see that now in the elections in the United States. My group is still very concerned about this law, particularly in terms of freedom of expression and independence. Despite the statement of the Secretary of State, we have not legally ruled that there is a freedom in the choice of presenters, the content of the programmes, the guests or the subjects. The Secretary of State says that this will be reflected in the co-ordination rules, but there is no such regulation and we do not know whether it will actually be regulated there. If it were to be settled there, there would be no legal basis for broadcasters to rely on these agreements. Or is that independence recorded somewhere else? That essential omission in the law is hard for my group. We had hoped that the Secretary of State would have come to a more sensible choice in recent months. Instead, he throws overboard the principles of the independent media, putting more at risk than public service broadcasting alone. This Secretary of State is not going to stand for the independence of public service broadcasting. Instead, he's wasting these in our eyes. Madam President, Mr G.B.J. Hiltermann remember. I'm doing the same thing. He was the man with the weekly column "the world according to G.B.J. Hiltermann." He pronounced that with a bombastic voice. He roared about economic disaster by the left-wing Cabinets. On the other hand, we had Sonja Barend, who wanted to see the other side of the story and often let her guests do the talking. There was a lot of color. A democracy can grow on that. There were many opinions, many sides of one story. That is the strength of the diversity of the broadcasters we know. They are broadcasters that are supported by the members. They know a member council, they choose a board and they vote with their feet. It is strange that politics is now saying that this kind of democracy is not desirable, that these broadcasters are apparently unable to make wise choices and that there is therefore also a consultative board to be set up. Our group would like to ask who sits on that advisory board and who represents that advisory board. How big is this group and whose interests are represented there? What is the status of this advisory board in relation to the members of those broadcasters? How do we prevent this advisory council from becoming an elitist matter? There is still uncertainty about the influence of the NPO on the content and choice of presenters. The Secretary of State says that this is not possible, but during a hearing in the Lower House he also said this: "I see that good agreements have been made between the NPO on the one hand and the broadcasters on the other." I would add that this is part of the broadcasting. The Secretary of State further said: "They have also indicated to translate it into their own regulations. That is not therefore a law and regulation that will be introduced, but their own operationalisation of the working arrangements." Now I would like the Secretary of State to clarify this. Can't it be legal? If so, where is it in the law? Or can't it be because that's how it's gonna be agreed? If the latter is the case, what are the possibilities for the Secretary of State if these agreements do not hold up or if one of the two parties fails to comply with the agreements? The Secretary of State is pleased that the task of the public service broadcasters goes back to a few core tasks. This makes broadcasting more unattractive to the general public. As I said before, the power of the public order is that our associations can make a diverse sound. It is the only way in which the public can influence what is on television. The Secretary of State says that it is important that part of the population, not represented by the members, also gets a chance, because that part does not recognise itself in the associations. I would like to point out to him that only a few years ago these possibilities were much wider than they are now. Coordinate, streamline, align, but also steer: these are all words that indicate that the NPO will have an impact on our broadcasters and could thus also create unitary sausage. Making public service broadcasting a unitary service is not so much a violence to public service broadcasting as it is a democracy, because it deprives citizens of the opportunity to influence what they see on television. The alienation of that public service broadcasting will be greater rather than smaller. With this advisory council, my party fears the arrival of an elite broadcaster. That's why I'm still very concerned about this bill. I hope that this Chamber will reconsider whether everything we so badly wanted is now well worked out in the law and whether the independence of the media is secured in this way enough. I look forward to the response and the answers of the Secretary of State to my questions on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. Today episode 384 of drama series "The Media Act." And as is customary with television series and so on, there is first of all a short look back. What preceded this? In February or March of this year we discussed in this house the original bill, the actual Media Act, as intended by the Secretary of State. That was striking not only the PVV group, but also the other parties at the time were quite critical. It seemed even for a while that the bill might not achieve a majority, but of course that cannot be the case The Secretary of State was in despair with all kinds of commitments. The second deadline was postponed. In the end even a third term followed, everything to get this bill jacked through the First Chamber. So it was on 15 March last. I can still hear the Secretary of State say: 'When this bill is adopted, only the articles relating to regional broadcasting will enter into force in the short term, so that we can speed it up. The other articles (...) will not enter into force until the First Chamber has approved the supplementary law (...)." Prof. Elzinga and Dr. De Vries spoke of a "already special change course." They also claimed that the limits of Dutch state law were stretched. Our own President of the Chamber also indicated that a special path was being followed. At the end of the debate, she expressed her concern about the state of affairs, given the state-of-the-art position of the Supreme Court. The question is, why? Why did all that have to happen? In fact, because we are dealing here with an overly opportunistic secretary of state, formally because he wanted to "move ahead with the regional broadcasters'. But what does it turn out to be? The establishment and design of the RPO has come to a failure, a disappointment. It appears that a majority of regional broadcasters do not like the whole reorganisation after all. A follow-up legislative proposal, yet another, is therefore rejected by the Secretary of State, because even a disappointment would be very painful at the moment. In his letter of 2 September last, the Secretary of State states that in this case, he considers acceptance of 'yes', 'yes' or 'no' in the case of regional broadcasters to be crucial. That is, of course, opportunism, because since when does this government have something to support? I'd like a response. Could the Secretary of State perhaps explain why there is actually too little support for regional broadcasters? In his letter of 2 September, he wrote "that the majority of regional broadcasters attach greater importance to the legal definition of regional broadcasters as a regional media institution than to the administrative interrelatedness." Broadcasters are concerned with their editorial independence. But is there perhaps another reason, perhaps a financial one? Could that be possible? During a visit to a regional broadcaster, I found out that certain larger, richer regional broadcasters should contribute more financially to the RPO than others. For that broadcaster, this levelling among the regional broadcasters was also reason not to cooperate anymore. How does the Secretary of State react to this? Is this true? Does this apply to multiple broadcasters? Here we see the hypocrisy in broadcasting country. We have to help the whole world! Everyone, arm up! Levelling is a party!"! We often hear these and other left-wing messages, except when it comes to their own wallet. Then the left-wing ringing finger turns into a hand on the snipe, because imagine that as a regional broadcaster you have to pay more than another! Of course you can't! What a mess. The question is what is going on with the Media Act, with which the First Chamber had to agree on 15 March, with the whole course that was followed and all the fuss and fuss of that. Is that all for nothing now? And how do the other first parliamentary groups actually respond to this, at least the groups that have agreed to this course of action? That's interesting. Are these groups now feeling betrayed by the Secretary of State? Or have the gifts received in the back rooms been worth it anyway? The PVV Group likes to hear it. Conclusion: what entered into force in March is not going to come into force on second thought, whereas what did not then enter into force must now come into force with the additional legislative proposal. It's like a ball ball. Hans Kazán is nothing. Secretary of State Kazán has succumbed to his own opportunism. The Media Act was a crippled law and will remain so after today. We are discussing the supplementary bill today. In committee, we first asked written questions about this, which is not unusual. Perhaps it is worth mentioning that this would not have happened at all if it had been up to the VVD group. This proposal would then have been dealt with in plenary without any detours. I'm gonna take that as "no questions asked, no trouble done, no trouble done." Coincidentally, the Secretary of State is from the same party, but that aside. Legislation must, of course, be maintained. Without enforcement, legislation soon becomes a dead letter. The Media Act is no different. Take Article 2.1 of the Media Act, which anchors the public media mission. According to the second paragraph, public media services should provide "democratic, social and cultural needs of Dutch society by offering media offerings that are balanced, multiform, varied and high quality and also characterised by a wide variety of forms and content." That's beautiful. They're all beautiful words. In practice, it appears that it is often only fine words. The dead letter called Media Act is now being added to some of it. Take, for example, the proposed Article 2.2. The third paragraph states that the NPO steers its tasks and promotes cooperation from the "quantitative and qualitative objectives for the media supply and public coverage of the national public media service." Again, these are wonderful words. The PVV Group has already asked the Secretary of State in writing what measures or consequences the law offers in the event of non-compliance with this article, for example, by the NPO. It doesn't offer the law, that's the answer, but the Secretary of State does make performance agreements with the NPO. In the 2010-2015 Performance Agreement, a fine could even be applied in the event of non-compliance, the Secretary of State wrote. A fine in case of non-compliance! That's a big deal. That sounds tough, of course. How often has this fine, as referred to in Article 5, third paragraph of the Performance Agreement, been imposed on the NPO between 2010 and 2015, and for what purpose exactly? Or was the imposition of such a fine not necessary in those years because in the opinion of the Secretary of State, the NPO has performed perfectly? Or is this fine clause perhaps purely for the purposes of the agreement? If the Secretary of State considers that the imposition of fines and such goes far too far, has Article 4 (4) of the Performance Agreement ever been implemented by the Ministry, which also makes it possible to threaten only with the imposition of a fine and to persuade the NPO to comply with the agreements if necessary? I'd like a response. In the reply, the State Secretary writes that he is talking to the NPO about the next performance agreement for 2016-2020. What's going on with that? Has the Agreement 2010-2015 been evaluated? How does the Secretary of State feel about that? What changes does he possibly intend to make to the previous agreement? I added to the performance agreement once. I am surprised at the fact that 2.2 is one of the objectives that public service broadcasting must have improved the representation of immigrants and women in the programme offerings in five years' time, i.e. now in fact. Concrete question: how does the Secretary of State evaluate this? By the way, does he consider immigrants and women to be underage groups who apparently need this positive discrimination? How does he see this? Does he intend to include such objectives in the forthcoming agreement? We see that such left-wing objectives are simply part of policy, agreed between the NPO and the Ministry! I was just talking about the possibility of imposing a fine. Strictly speaking, there could be a fine now if the NPO does not promote the representation of, for example, immigrants. It's the reverse world. In the previous treatment of the Media Act in February/March of this year, I have repeatedly said that the NPO is a left-wing elitist party, and I say that again. Yes, I'm sorry to have to repeat myself, but I can't make it more beautiful, because in the meantime nothing has changed. No, on the contrary, the party just goes on, even more so, it gets worse and worse. An important theme in the new television season at the NPO is: to remove the fear of the Arab world among the Dutch. It's true. The NPO reeducation machine therefore wants the Dutch to look at the Arab world with a more positive view. Okay, then a question to the Secretary of State: how about this? Is this true? According to him, is this a public service mission? Will attention be given, as a kind of counterpart, to the dangers of Islam, for example, in the new television season? Does the NPO re-education machine, which is usually rather one-sided, include the message that beating and marrying women is not okay? That would be good, because then we would be at least in balance, of course, in the context of pluralism, as provided for in Article 2.1 of the Media Act and as included in the performance agreement. In other words, when is the Media Act going to be enforced, rather than constantly amended? One of these changes is that, as promised by the Secretary of State in the previous debate, the role of the Minister in the appointment, suspension or dismissal of the members of the board of directors and supervision of the NPO and RPO is removed from the Media Act. Fine. Political appointments are out of the question, none of that can be done. Of course, this measure is a little too little, too late. It seems that the Secretary of State wishes to demonstrate with this amendment that the appointment of a VVD party colleague as chairman of the Supervisory Board of the NPO is not possible on second thought, although the best man simply remains in his position. Anyway, the Secretary of State is trying to get all the appearances of boyfriend politics out of the table. We are dealing here with an overly opportunistic Secretary of State who does not uphold the Media Act and wants to take senseless legislative proposals from the Chamber. He's lost control. Those who are in control are public service broadcasting. It will now promote public engagement. The Secretary of State does not know what that means in concrete terms. He states in the reply that "the completion of this task is the responsibility of the NPO'. It is likely that the viewers will be more involved in the creation of left-wing propaganda, which will then be spewed out on themselves. Conclusion: it is and remains to cry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. Two years ago, on 13 October 2014, VVD State Secretary Dekker announced his plans for public service broadcasting. Aware of his important portfolio, he chose the ship Veronica with a great sense of public service broadcasting as the place of publication and thus the Netherlands had the first windmills at sea. Should this false start with a little goodwill still be regarded as a failed squabble, the tragedy of the past two years has made it clear that it would have been better for the state secretary to have chosen the spacious soup. The discussion of the change to the Media Act 2008 was a low point in the First Chamber, with the result that today we are still debating legislative changes that should have entered into force on 1 January 2016, or, more importantly, will not enter into at all for the time being. I shall come back to that at regional broadcasting. It has been an endless tug of commitment and legislative changes, and anyone looking at the end result today cannot possibly insist that strong legislation is being presented here. The ludicrous appointment procedures for the various NPO bodies, the restriction of journalistic freedom of broadcasters and the many uncertainties in the future council of advice are just a few examples of how endlessly stopped and amazed by the shabby jacket called Media Act. I shall now come to the editorial independence of the broadcasters. In the response of 5 September 2016, the State Secretary refers to the letter of the NPO and the majority of broadcasters, which states that choices for presenters, guests, subjects or specific parts of the form and content of the programmes are not part of the substantive frameworks on the basis of which the NPO assesses the programme proposals. This agreement shall be included in the co-ordination rules and shall provide sufficient assurance. The 5OPLUS Group has two questions on this. First of all, in other places too, there is always talk of the majority of broadcasters. That deliberately gives a crooked picture. Broadcasters that have major objections in principle represent the majority of the broadcasters that are so important according to the State Secretary. Suppose we would say here in the Senate: PvdA, GroenLinks, ChristenUnion, SGP, PvdD, 5OPLUS and 0SF are in favour and that is the majority of the parties, then the independent President of the Chamber would also say: those are 22 seats, that is not a majority? Is the Secretary of State prepared to stop talking about the majority of organisations instead of the majority of broadcasters? The second question is the following. The Secretary of State keeps saying that this agreement will be properly included in the co-ordination rules, which is therefore not yet in place. If, in the opinion of the organisations representing a majority, the provisions are insufficient, what are the possibilities for the Secretary of State to comply with his commitments to the Chamber? I'd like a clear answer to that. In the relationship between NPO and broadcasters, we see once again a fog in terms of the concession plan, the performance agreement, the budgets and the profiles of the supply channels. The State Secretary writes that the legal procedure according to Article 2.14 Media Act ensures that a broad opinion cannot be ignored. This seems clear, but the response is continued by saying: "If the College of broadcasters gives a negative opinion, then the Board of Directors has to adapt these plans', or "and now the Commission of broadcasters' "presents the negative opinion to the Supervisory Board of the NPO'. In other words, first it says that a broad opinion cannot be ignored, but that can be done by three rules. We would like a clarification from the Secretary of State. All these cases prove that the editorial autonomy of broadcasters is not sufficiently guaranteed by law. Even greater uncertainty arises as to the role and composition of an Advisory Council to be set up by the NPO. The only justification seems to be the State Secretary's view that all broadcasters together are not sufficiently representative. As an example, he mentions specific target groups, such as non-Western immigrants. Could the Secretary of State elaborate on this? Perhaps women, young people, Limburgers or less educated people are under-represented. How should this be measured later? In the case of non-Western immigrants, can they be treated in the same way? Or should they also be specified? And where can the advice of non-Western immigrants lead? Following broadcasts from Dutch churches, will there be broadcasts from mosques? Instead of creative broadcasters, the Secretary of State makes it a big administrative burden. We would like to hear his views if they were not. I shall return to the reply of 20 November last year, to page 3. There the Secretary of State writes: "The provision of media is reserved exclusively for broadcasters, the NOS and the NTR." And further: "It is clear that the placement of the NPO is not about producing the media offer." This seems clear, but how does this relate to the 2016 annual plan, which states: "The NPO will commit creative teams that are commissioned to produce one or more high-quality drama series with a multi-season duration"? Isn't that completely contrary to each other? Doesn't that mean that a broadcaster like MAX, which has distinguished itself with beautiful drama series in recent years, will have less room for this in advance? It means that the choice of identity about what a series is about is still in the hands of the NPO. And then the crown jewel of the Secretary of State: the modernisation of regional broadcasting. How does VVD Secretary of State Dekker leave his sinking ship? The Secretary of State has not been able to establish cooperation between regional broadcasters. He leaves behind a regional broadcaster forced to cut 17 million as of 1 January 2017. In its letter of 2 September 2016, the State Secretary adds that regional broadcasting's budget will also decrease due to structurally reduced advertising revenues. In this letter, the author considers it important that programming and editing are kept as far as possible. Here too, he lacks a sense of reality. There are redundancies, redactors are reduced and broadcasts are shortened and repeated more often. What do you mean, no quality reduction? The Secretary of State notes that there is insufficient support for his proposal for the modernisation of regional broadcasting. Paul van Gessel, director of Noord-Holland broadcasting, summarizes the obituary ad in the Volkskrant of 8 September as follows: "The RPO plan is dead. (...) Dekker has put everything away in a desk drawer, where it is no longer convenient until the elections." And indeed, in the letter of 2 September, it says: "I find acceptance by regional broadcasters crucial. (...) The present legislative proposal will therefore not be submitted to your Chamber.' End of the will of a Secretary of State, who may be a good topic for the new NPO drama series. 5OPLUS can be clear in its conclusions. The Secretary of State's request for new adjustments doesn't seem to make much sense. Waiting for a good repairman after March 15th next year. The best thing would be to take back the whole proposal. The havoc is great. It is as the NRC pointed out on 30 August 2015: Dekker's creative demolition of public service broadcasting is progressing. With the elections on 15 March next year and the subsequent formation in sight, an important conclusion is needed: media matters must no longer be in the hands of a party.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You don't make a cannibal head of infant care either. In our view, the Secretary of State has been the worst manager of public service broadcasting since the first legislation came into force some 50 years ago. Perhaps the ship Veronica is a nice location for its farewell reception.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u6	Mr. Chairman. During the treatment of the Media Act, the Secretary of State expressed many good intentions. The proverb says that the road to hell is paved with good intentions, and that is why it is a good thing that we are discussing with each other today how these intentions have been and are being implemented. Today, I will deal with three points: the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters, public involvement and, finally, a few comments on the government's decision to freeze the regional implementing law, while the 17 million cuts continue. First of all, I will deal with the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. This broadcasting law should clarify the details of the relationship and working methods of the NPO and the broadcasters, but my group notes that this clarification and effect is still lacking. The pressing question, according to my group's rhetorical question, is still: should the autonomy of broadcasters not be better established by law? This bill adds a third paragraph to Article 2.2 of the Media Act, which states, inter alia, that the NPO complies with Article 2.88 of the Media Act in the provision of the media by the national public media institutions. Article 2.52 Media Act lays down that the Governing Board shall comply with Article 2.88 of the Media Act in coordination and organisation on and between the supply channels. This is what the Secretary of State calls, in response to my group's questions, the 'explicit legal framework of the scope of the mandate of the NPO as a steering and cooperation body'. But in what way does the repetition of Article 2.88 provide a framework for the autonomy of broadcasters? Can the Secretary of State indicate form the independence has been given to shape content and programming? According to my group, Article 2.88 of the Media Act does not appear to be based on essential elements. Why not simply lay down clearly in the law that the choice for presenters, guests and form and content of programs is outside the guiding frameworks of the NPO? That is far too little anchored as far as we are concerned. For example, the College of Appeals currently has no legal advisory right with regard to the co-ordination rules and the resulting agreements and arrangements. The suggestion that such a right of advice should still be introduced is rejected by the Secretary of State, despite the broad support of the broadcasters and in this house. The editorial autonomy of broadcasters is therefore not sufficiently guaranteed by law. I ask the Secretary of State if it is true that the College of Appeals cannot enforce the commitment that the agreements contained in the letter of 28 February 2016 will be laid down in the Co-ordination Regulation. Is it true that the College of Appeals is powerless without legal advisory rights if the NPO decides at any time to withdraw those agreements from the co-ordination rules? I'd like to hear a clear response from the Secretary of State. I'll continue with the public involvement. To the written questions on the setting up of an additional public council to increase public involvement, the State Secretary replies that it is complementary to the activities of broadcasters and that it does not change the position of broadcasters. Were it not the broadcasters who, as member organisations with more support than political parties, should be considered the best able to organise this public involvement? What gives politics the feeling that it would be better able to involve the public, while the public has much more appreciation and confidence in public broadcasting than politics does? I'd like to hear a response to this. The position of broadcasters as a cooperation partner of the NPO in defining and implementing a common strategy is clearly called into question by a social advisory board. The State Secretary's replies show that the NPO will soon be able to consult not only the College of Broadcasting but also the Advisory Council on strategic issues, policy choices, programming as a whole and the profiles of future members of the Supervisory Board. What happens if the opinions of the Board of Appeals and the Social Advisory Council do not match? What advice prevails? I would like to hear a clear response from the Secretary of State. There is no reason for the Party for Animals to set up the proposed Advisory Council. An Advisory Council is expected to be more disruptive than the intended complement and reinforcement. What does the Secretary of State see as the added value of this social advisory council? My group believes that setting up an additional social advisory council will at best lead to costly and unworkable duplications and, at worst, to stalemates that could paralyse the public media service. How does the Secretary of State weigh this point? I assume that he would not be in favour of such a crippling effect. There's gonna have to be a bigger plan behind it. My group is not yet clear on what plan that is. I invite the Secretary of State to clarify this point. I will briefly comment on the freezing of the Regional Implementation Act. In a letter dated 2 September, the Secretary of State informed us that he is maintaining the Supplementary Act, sorry, the Regional Implementation Act, there are now so many laws that you occasionally get confused because of insufficient support. My group finds this worrying, because this change was a major part of the previously announced change in the Dutch public service broadcasting system. This is a further sign of insufficient thought-out preparation. In retrospect, this also means that the continued handling of the law by the State Secretary on 16 March did not give the regional broadcasters the certainty that the State Secretary felt so urgent at the time. How do we proceed? What is the RPO without a necessary impact in the bill? I have heard from various organisations that an additional EUR 8.5 million was allocated in the event of delays. Is it true that this 8.5 million will only be granted now if cooperation between broadcasters is successful? This isn't supposed to happen, is it? We have to be able to cope with these cuts, don't we? I hope the Secretary of State can take this care away. I know that the primary responsibility for dealing with this dossier at the moment lies with the House of Representatives, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State these questions, given the latest developments. Finally. The Secretary of State has never been known as a fan of public service broadcasting. However, we must not let an important and successful intermediary of news provision, independent information and public and political commitment go unpunished. For this reason, I would like to call on the Secretary of State to return to his steps and, if that does not work, secondly, my colleagues in this House to offer public service broadcasting the opportunities and appreciation it deserves, after a rich history which, as far as my group is concerned, is far from over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u7	Mr. Chairman. The o of "broadcasting" is back in the month and that means that we can once again look at the Media Act. At our home, as in the old days, the r in the month, the liver tear was back on the table; that was always a bit of swallowing. Apparently it was necessary to take it, but the aftertaste didn't wash you away so easily. Such a 'liver tear' was felt by my group even after the treatment of the Media Act at the beginning of the year. The cabinet has made sensible commitments, but only half a law has entered into force after three long deadlines. My group very much hopes that we will be able to continue in Hilversum and with regional broadcasters after the examination and vote of the amended legislative proposal. In the third term, my group found that for us the core of the new Media Act is that the freely closed broadcasting system opens up more easily to external programme ideas. Civil society organisations and trends with a message do not need to create a complete broadcasting system, but can make proposals for information, education, art and culture on a programme basis. This lowers the threshold of the Media Park and increases the diversity of public broadcasting. The underlying objective is that public service broadcasting remains a player in a rapidly changing society and responds to new needs and demands of viewers and listeners. My group respects the pluralism of today's Hilversum, but also sees that this diversity partly reflects a solid picture of time. We regard the easier admission of outsiders with a message as an enrichment. Smaller movements or groups in society that are not represented by a broadcaster are also given a chance on public platforms. In the ideal world, public service broadcasting is becoming a reality for everyone and public service broadcasting can also be found for everyone. That is what we are talking about. New rules have been devised for the more open order. The NPO becomes a coordinating organisation, which sets up substantive frameworks in consultation with the broadcasters. The implementation of these frameworks in programmes is for the broadcasters and their programme makers as well as for external parties who come up with programme proposals. The broadcasters remain involved as co-producer in the programme proposals and are ultimately responsible for the content of what we hear and see on radio, TV and via digital channels. In particular, the rules of the game that were proposed led us to look critically at the legislative proposals in the previous treatment of the Media Act. According to these rules, an organisation set up by law and appointed by the political directors will determine the substantive frameworks of public service broadcasting. If that organisation, the NPO, becomes a game dealer and referee in the allocation of the transmission time, then alertness is required. Is politics at a sufficient distance, as envisaged in European legislation and in the Constitution? Are the rules of the law applicable in practice? Is the game dealer indeed the organisation that not only deals with the vested interests at the Media Park, but can also understand itself with society in a broad sense? Are the roles clear, clear and applicable to all parties? Those were the questions that my group asked in the third term. Now we are looking at whether the improvements promised and necessary in my group's view actually come back to the legislation that has been completed. I'll check them out a little bit. I would also like to come back to developments in the regional broadcasters. In March, the part of the new Media Act regulating the formation of the RPO entered into force. This has been done in order to continue to make progress with the formation of the RPO and the cooperation between regional broadcasters. It also gives my group an extremely uncomfortable feeling that it is precisely in the area of cooperation between regional broadcasters that the momentum seems to be right. Our group's proposals in the debate this spring dealt with the following three main points. 1. Put the politics away. 2. Clarify the frameworks in the law so that everyone can take their proper role. 3. Turn the look outside and give the viewer and listener a public consultation influence not only on the programmes or broadcasters, but also on the order as a whole. My group notes that the cabinet has incorporated its commitments from the February letter into the additions and thanks the Cabinet and the Secretary of State for that. The appointment of directors at NPO and RPO has become a matter for the Supervisory Board and has been removed from the law. The supervisors themselves are proposed through independent appointment advisory committees. The Governing Board, the College of Broadcasting, the Central Works Council and a Social Advisory Council may submit views on the function profile established by the Supervisory Board. Politics can't do that. My group welcomes this interpretation, which gives public service broadcasting a great deal of its own influence and responsibility for fulfilling the role of supervisor and putting politics at a great distance. The law now provides that the Minister may only deviate from the important opinion of the appointment advisory committees in exceptional cases. Should that be the case at some point, the Minister informs the House of Representatives about this with a statement of reasons. GroenLinks believes that this will prevent political interference with the appointment of supervisors. The Minister can only deviate from a nomination for reasons mentioned in the law and there is a strong lock on the door due to its public obligation to report to the House of Representatives. The recent appointment of a new chairman of the board of directors of the NPO was between the old and the new law. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he handled this appointment, because it was, of course, still formally carried out by the law in force. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that it is wise for the law to clarify the relationship between the steering and framework role of the NPO and the content of programmes by broadcasters. The explicit reference in Articles 2.2 and 2.52 to Article 2.88 stresses once again that the steering role of the NPO is secured within legal frameworks. The freedom and responsibility of broadcasters for the form and content of the programmes has therefore been explicitly identified as a prerequisite. As far as my group is concerned, it is up to the NPO and the broadcasters themselves to fill that out. The law prescribes the frameworks, but the execution takes place to a large extent of freedom by the players themselves. This is an important starting point for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. At the same time, however, it also places a great responsibility on all players at the Mediapark to jointly implement the rules of the game. We can see that steps are being taken, but we can also see that there is still a lot of fuss, for example when the co-ordination rules are being drawn up. My question to the Secretary of State is what steps he envisages, while maintaining the responsibility outlined just now, to promote constructive dialogue with and between the broadcasters and the NPO. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance welcomes the fact that the law lays down that public broadcasting as a whole involves the public in a broad sense in the implementation of the media offer and that the NPO must also work with it from its steering and framework role. The system must be able to grow flexibly with the way society develops widely, and this requires a lasting dialogue with all sections of society, not only at programme level but also at the level of the system as a whole. Our call is: put your ear wide to listen in society, record what people think is important and how they make their choices in media use, track down and enrich the white spots in the order and deepen the offer by interacting with a diverse audience. Do this flexibly, creatively, thematically and in varying compositions. As far as we are concerned, we are not setting up a heavy institution, but we are developing a habit of permanently engaging with groups in society. In particular, we should look at groups that are hardly represented and make efforts to involve them. In the area of regional broadcasters, the taste of liver oil has not disappeared by far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u8	Maybe I should remind Mr Lintmeijer that there used to be pills that didn't taste so dirty, but had the same effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u9	You're younger than me; that's your advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u10	Thank you for your compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u11	Would you like to speak through the chairman, Mr. Lintmeijer? You've run out of time, too. You still have a lot to do, and I will give you the space to do so, but would you prefer to give up the necessary speaking time in future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u12	Mr Lintmeijer spoke very quickly about the coordination rules and guaranteeing the independence of the public service broadcasters in the choice of the content of the programmes and the presenters. I would like to know that it was not quite clear to me whether Mr Lintmeijer himself thinks that this independence is sufficiently secure at the moment or whether he thinks that it should be more firmly enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u13	I believe that it is clear in the law that the NPO has been given a steering role, but that it should be implemented together with the broadcasters. The reference to Article 2.88 in several places explicitly emphasized that the substantive responsibility for the programmes lies with the broadcasters. Inside it there is a playing field in which you will have to enter into conversation about formats and interpretation. I do not want to bring the debate in Hilversum on what is regulated in the grey area to this point. I'd like to return that discussion to Hilversum himself. We give a number of frameworks which are clear in themselves, but which we must be able to deal with. I think it would be wrong for us here to be too rigid. Leave that to the players in the field in Hilversum, but take the opportunity to make sure that the frameworks are clearly set out in the law. I think that is the case now to a sufficient extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u14	I think it is a rather special position. It is not just a few frameworks, but it is really about the independence of these programmes. I could imagine that politics would have to set more frameworks for that, but that aside. Does Mr Lintmeijer think that if the parties do not come together, there will be sufficient opportunities to take steps to secure independence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u15	I can say two things about that. The Secretary of State or the Cabinet is and remains responsible for the system, however you want to formulate it. If the system does not function as we have meant with each other, the Cabinet or the Secretary of State will be encouraged to ensure that the parties are placed within these frameworks. The independence of the broadcasters in the implementation of the programmes is not at all under discussion for my group. This independence is a great asset and must remain so. Compared to previous variants of the legislative proposal, we believe that this has become much clearer in this proposal. We think that within that framework, you should be able to get out with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u16	Then I have to conclude that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that there is no need for further guarantee of the independence of broadcasters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u17	Independence is guaranteed in three places in the law: in Article 2.88 and by two explicit references to it in the law. You can write it down four or five times, but it's also one time what it is. The law is the law; it is contained in it. The State Secretary's statement is to look from his system of responsibility at the way in which the law is implemented; the NPO's and the broadcasters' declaration is to look at the implementation of the rules of the game. They are adult people; they must come out together, in the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I'm gonna try to keep it real short from here. Several groups have expressed all their concerns about the development of regional broadcasters, in particular the stagnation of cooperation. I have the following questions. My first question concerns the eight regional broadcasters which have temporarily withdrawn from cooperation. They are particularly concerned about the disappearance of the legal status of their broadcasters. What possibilities does the State Secretary see in the second stage of the legislation, if any; perhaps he thinks: not now and never not yet, for the RPO, to guarantee this legal status for the individual broadcasters, as was previously expected? My second question is how does the Secretary of State prevent the budget of 8.5 million, which has also been made available at the request of the Chamber in order to cover the previous costs of the delay, from going into further fuss and frictions, which are at the expense of strengthening the editorial content? Is there a solution to that? My third question is a bit more technical. Is the Secretary of State aware of the fact that the five regional broadcasters that do want to cooperate want other broadcasters to also run into a huge VAT problem because the absence of formal RPO formation does not create a tax unit, which will charge any cooperation with 21% VAT? Could the Secretary of State, perhaps in consultation with his colleague from the Treasury, do something about this? More generally, we would like the Secretary of State to make an extra effort to facilitate the stalled cooperation in the field of regional broadcasting. Media developments continue unabated. Commercial parties join forces and the impact and competitiveness of channels such as Facebook, YouTube and Netflix, where your and my media behavior are good, are growing every day. We must act quickly if we are to maintain a public service broadcasting system that is not about advertising value and shareholder interests, but about people and society. And it has to be done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u18	Mr. Chairman. More than seven months ago, this Chamber completed the discussion of the bill on the future of the public media service with the proposal of the Secretary of State to supplement the Media Act on a number of elements. They concern, first, the role of the Minister of OCW in the appointment of members of the Governing Board and the Supervisory Board of the NPO and the RPO, second, the relationship between the NPO and broadcasters, third, public involvement and fourth, the procedure for transparency of programming costs. In the opinion of my group, these are essential additions. Clarification of the role of the Minister of OCW in the appointment of members of the Governing Board and the Supervisory Board of the NPO and the RPO is important for the transparency and independence of appointments in the public media. This gives rise to a question and a comment for the PvdA. The question concerns the way in which the recent appointment of the Chairman of the Governing Board of the NPO has taken place, as Mr Lintmeijer referred to it. Can the Secretary of State confirm that this has been done within the framework of the present bill? The comment concerns the promised serious exploration of the transparency and independence of appointments in the public media in general. We thought we would receive this exploration already in the spring, but we read in the reply that 28 November is the new target date. We prefer care over speed, unless this will lead to an unacceptable long term. The PvdA supports the present clarification of the frameworks and scope of the role of the NPO as a steering and cooperation body. Ultimately, the responsibility for coordinating and programming belongs to the NPO and the responsibility for the form and content of the broadcasters, my group believes. In doing so, it is essential that the NPO takes into account the freedom and responsibility of broadcasters for the form and content of the media offerings. My group welcomes the clarification on this point in the legislative proposal before us. In the opinion of the PvdA, the heavier role for the NPO belongs to good internal checks-and-balances. To this end, the Culture Council in its opinion Time is open from page 81 on a number of substantive recommendations, including those for a Programme Advisory Council. In the view of my group, this makes an important contribution to a representative public response to programming and policy. We therefore support the present assignment to the NPO to organise public representation. The proposed procedure for rules on transparency of programming costs can count on the support of the PvdA. My group is in favour of transparency at genre level and understands the need to use confidentiality clauses. We see neither Article 68 of the Constitution nor Articles 2.15, 2.171 and 2.178 of the Media Act as the basis for requiring NPO and private broadcasters to provide information. Legal clarity with the help of independent experts on these issues has been promised by the Secretary of State. We read in the reply that the legal reasoning is being examined by a professor of state and administrative law. Nothing to professors, on the contrary, I would say, but that is one expert where the undertaking T02216 refers to 'independent legal experts'. It reminds me of a statement by Winston Churchill that I can appreciate as professor of economics: "If you put two economists in a room, you get two opinions, unless one of them is John Maynard Keynes, in which case you get three." In any case, we would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the exact wording of the commitment. We also assume that he will follow it. Although the present legislative proposal only affects developments concerning regional broadcasters, my group is nevertheless taking the opportunity to express its concern about the delay in the legislative proposal on the modernisation of the Regional Public Broadcasting Service. With the State Secretary, the PvdA considers support for regional broadcasters crucial. And with the Secretary of State, she believes that a major transition requires the support of the parties that are actually going to implement this change. However, my group is not confident that the cuts that will take place as of 1 January 2017 will not be at the expense of the quality and content of the regional media supply. We would like to ask the Secretary of State how he thinks he can realise that the cuts made will not affect the quality and content of the regional media supply. And we would like to remind him of his commitment T02220 to contribute to a generous friction cost regime for regional public service broadcasters and to ensure that the friction cost regime at least compensates for the effect of six months delay of 8.5 million, on top of regular friction costs. How did the Secretary of State deploy this 8.5 million for 2017 or how does he intend to deploy this 8.5 million for 2017? We would also like to hear from the Secretary of State what steps he is taking to reach agreement between regional broadcasters. My group expects him to guarantee the preservation of good and independent journalism in the region. I would like to conclude by thanking the Secretary of State for taking the concerns expressed in this Chamber very seriously in the light of the legislative proposal before us and hoping that he will be able to answer our remaining questions convincingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u19	I have just included Mrs Sent's text, which says: 'We prefer care over speed'. Did she really say that? I can't imagine!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u20	That is what I really said about the promised exploration of transparency and independence of appointments in the public media.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u21	Then how can Mrs Sent explain that in March of this year her party, the PvdA, even agreed to this bill, which in practice did not come into effect at all? She, her party, has agreed to this whole process, this particular change course. In that context, how am I supposed to indicate "carefulness"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u22	The Secretary of State proposed this. We agreed to it because at that time there was a need to speed up the formation of the RPO and to clarify it for the regional broadcasters. We very much regret that this clarity is still not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u23	So it had to be made quick, okay? It is now clear that nothing has happened in practice. Does Mrs Sent or does her party, the PvdA, regret that she voted for this bill in March of this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u24	I don't regret things I don't know at some point. I made a decision in good faith that there would be agreement. I thought it was important to reform the RPO and did not want to delay the regional legislative proposal. I thought that was a wise decision. I'm still in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u25	Then I conclude that this care at the PvdA is nothing in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u26	Mr. Chairman. I am experiencing great unanimity this afternoon when it comes to the process of the Media Act. That doesn't deserve a beauty prize. This Chamber agreed at the time, in particular to ensure that the RPO was able to take rapid steps. Unfortunately, the pace there is falling completely away and is "how farther?" A pressing question that many groups have already asked this afternoon. In dealing with this law or, let me say, the additions, I confine myself to a few parts which I appointed on behalf of the SGP Group in the March legislative process. First of all, governance. Good governance becomes visible, among other things, in procedures for appointments. This bill regulates that the government will be more remote in the case of appointments of the NPO and RPO. The appointment of members of the Governing Board is now entirely with the supervisory boards and for appointments of members of the Supervisory Board, the Secretary of State also explicitly renounces, according to Article 2.5. Both establishing the profiles and setting up an independent appointment advisory committee is beyond his responsibility. The SGP considers it important that appropriate distance has been created in this way, while respecting ministerial responsibility through marginal review of an opinion. It is stipulated that the Minister may disregard an opinion on grounds of conflict with the law, due diligence or other serious interests. The latter offers space, but can also easily lead to differences of opinion. What if an in-depth disagreement leads to repeated rejection of an opinion, does the Minister or the Secretary of State still have the opportunity to break such an impasse? It is striking that these procedures will involve the participation of a representative social advisory council set up to shape public representation. Such advisory councils are already operating at the level of broadcasting associations, but this new council should complement and strengthen. An important question is: how is the representativeness of this social advisory council regulated and secured? The Secretary of State states in the reply that in any case it must be selected on the basis of origin, age, level of education and sex. But isn't the aspect of philosophy particularly important here? Does the Secretary of State wish to promote the addition of the aspect of philosophy to the selection criteria and to establish this? Another aspect addressed by the SGP is the framing of the role of the NPO versus broadcasting associations. In the legislative proposal, in the section on Article 2.2, the guiding functions and powers of the NPO are linked to agreements and strategy, as described in the concession policy plan, the performance agreement, the profiles of the supply channels, the agreements with broadcasters, the coordination rules, etc. The same list is given in Article 2.52. However, it says: "When coordinating and organizing on and between the supply channels, the Governing Board may review proposals for programmes against (...)." After that the whole list follows. How does this relate to each other? Article 2.2 is an obligation and Article 2.52 appears to be a possibility. In the previous treatment of the Media Act, I raised an important moral question on behalf of my group, namely whether the Secretary of State saw the possibility of applying the Viewing Pointer to advertisements, i.e. platform independent, i.e. on radio, television and the Internet. As an example, I would like to point out that the repulsive adultery advertising of Second Love is something that I would like to stress. The Secretary of State has indicated that he cannot prohibit it by law, but he has now reported that this discussion has contributed to the moral awareness of the Star and the operator concerned. They themselves decided that the call to be unfaithful should not be made before 9 p.m. As far as the SGP is concerned, this is only a beginning, because these kinds of attacks on marriage do not belong on public service broadcasting. We go back to the question of whether the Watchpoint can be applied to advertisements. The Secretary of State promised at the time that he would investigate this and, if possible, promote it. In the meantime, the Secretary of State has informed this Chamber by letter that the Star has decided to formally join NICAM/Kijkwijzer. This is an important signal for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. This almost meets the Secretary of State's commitment. The only thing my group is waiting for is the message that the connection of the Star with NICAM/Kijkwijzer is actually a fact. Perhaps the Secretary of State can tell us whether it is already there or whether it is informing us when this has been formalised. I look forward to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u27	Mr. Chairman. It almost seems as if it was yesterday, but it has been six months since the First Chamber agreed with the Secretary of State on amendments to its proposal to amend the Media Act. I say 'agreements' and not 'good agreements', because they are usually only discussed afterwards, when the parties have not actually agreed and there is disappointment about the extent to which the other party complies with those agreements. That has not been the case here. The Secretary of State has found the Upper House and the Lower House willing to agree to the additions. Today I can say that, to my happy surprise, Mr Atsma also thinks that it is mainly about improvements to the law. I was very surprised to hear his views on this today, given that he was unable to support the law at the time. It is good to hear that there are improvements as far as he is concerned. Those improvements were considered necessary by the majority of this Chamber in order to be able to agree to the amendment of the Media Act 2008. In the opinion of the D66 Group, the agreements have been well respected and have led to a better law in relation to the NPO. The Secretary of State knows that it was particularly important for my group that the members of the Supervisory Board of the NPO should not be appointed directly by the Secretary of State. My group is satisfied with the regulation now proposed, in which an independent appointment advisory committee delivers a major opinion to the Secretary of State. In addition, my group felt that it was important to clarify the relationship between the NPO and broadcasters with regard to the content and editorial autonomy of broadcasters, not only in order to preserve the diversity in the offer of incumbent broadcasters, but also in order to offer opportunities for non-established operators and new offerings of programme concepts. In our opinion, this should also be a task of the NPO to itself, especially now that what until these days was the mission of the Media Fund has become part of the NPO. As far as my group is concerned, Mr Lintmeijer has already referred to Article 2.88 of the Media Act, even after the amendment has been accepted, it must be read as an imperative for the NPO to have extreme restraint in interventions on the form and content of the media offerings of the public media institutions. In the light of the discussion we had with the Secretary of State in the February debate, I hope to hear today from the Secretary of State that this is also the opinion of the Government and that this should therefore remain the starting point for the interpretation of Article 2.88. As far as the establishment of a representative social advisory council is concerned, my group hopes to hear more from the Secretary of State on how the NPO intends to give shape and substance to this. We trust that steps have already been taken in half a year since the commitment on this point to put this into practice quickly and properly. It was necessary to be able to quickly come to a new arrangement for regional broadcasters which, six months ago, led to the bizarre situation that led the Chamber to adopt a law with the State Secretary's undertaking that the most important part of it, for my group, the regulation of the position of the NPO, would not be introduced for the time being. It now appears that at least part of the regional broadcasters have insufficient support for the introduction of an RPO as provided for in the law. This also jeopardises the implementation of the austerity mandate for regional broadcasters. If I understand correctly, therefore, that is a question to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, the breaking point is the fact that the RPO, as a ZPO, cannot have directors of regional broadcasters as directors if at the same time those directors are directors of their own regional broadcasting, which as a regional media institution is in fact also provided with a ZBO status. It's a very complicated construction that really can't be done. This is linked to a loss of status; this is also evident from the reactions. For our group, however, it is also a question of how the possibility of this Zbo-Zbo problem has not been mentioned before, not by the Secretary of State himself and not by the Council of State. The opinion of 2015 on the amendment of the Media Act does not mention this potential risk at any point in the Council of State. Moreover, the law itself does not prescribe that the management of the RPO is composed of directors of the regional broadcasters. There is that possibility under the law, but even if all up to six members of the board were also employed by a regional broadcaster, and according to the law they do not have to be even in the role of director of a regional broadcaster, the problem remains that there are thirteen regional broadcasters. Have the regional broadcasters not sufficiently realised that they can in fact only be regional editors in the new RPO? The Secretary of State writes: "The regional editors will remain in the underlying foundations for the time being." That's all there is to it. Should "most of all" be read here as: I don't know how to proceed yet? Or should it rather, in the best "Who is the Mol" tradition, be read as: I know, but they must first discover it themselves? They did, and not everyone liked that. The Secretary of State would like to refer to Stichting ROOS, the association of the regional broadcasters, as the initiator or at least co-initiator of the plans that are now being hoped for. The Secretary of State is confident that the problem can be solved, but my group would like to know what solution he is looking for and what the timetable is. What will happen if consultation with and between regional broadcasters does not lead to the outcome desired by the Secretary of State and foreseen by law? As has already been mentioned, the simple cooperation between broadcasters has VAT implications. The choice of the individual broadcasters to remain independent again puts the cuts at risk. The question is at least how to achieve it, without affecting both the programming and the support function. Should we take into account the possibility that we will have to deal with the submission of an addition to the supplement to the amendment to the Media Act? I would like to receive an answer from the Secretary of State, but hopefully not in the form of a submission. Fortunately, today we only have to decide on the proposed supplement. From the first part of my speech it will be clear that my group will support the legislative proposal. On behalf of my group, I have also expressed our concern about the situation in which regional public media services, partly through their own actions, have ended up. Finally, I think that the Secretary of State will be the first to confirm that due to the rapid developments in information and communication, but perhaps less because of the opposition he is experiencing in the field due to the changes taking place outside, no Media Act really deserves the predicate "future-proof" at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u28	Mr. Chairman. There has been a long and extensive discussion with this Secretary of State on the amendment of the Media Act. As far as I'm concerned, we don't have to do that all over again. The commitments made by the Secretary of State regarding the appointment of the board and the boards of directors of the NPO and RPO have been properly fulfilled. With regard to the relationship between the NPO and broadcasters, Article 288 of the Media Act remains the central point of departure, in which all further internal arrangements find their limits. A socially representative advisory council shall be set up to ensure public involvement. I still have some doubts as to whether the latter will really contribute to increasing the social relevance of the public media service, in addition to the role to be played by broadcasting organisations in this respect. But it is what the Chamber has asked. As far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State has therefore met the expectations of concluding the discussions on the function and task of the NPO. Otherwise, of course, it is with regard to regional broadcasters. I think it would be a good idea to discuss this here too. Although the Secretary of State still seems to assume that the bill as it was intended to be will be implemented in the long term, it does not seem certain at all. It does not seem likely that this will be possible for the next six months. What happens after that is, of course, completely uncertain. In my opinion, therefore, it makes sense to take the situation as it stands for the time being. The regional broadcasters continue to operate as designated and regional public media institutions and can broadcast on the basis of the designation. So they remain independent as far as their broadcast concession is concerned. They are not bound by any indication given to them by the RPO. Did I get that correctly? Nevertheless, it is likely that, if, under the direction of the RPO or otherwise, meaningful and efficient austerity measures are proposed, broadcasters will want to implement them. I had not realised the problem with VAT. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to comment on that. The broadcasters will not want to implement such measures if they have a negative impact on their ability to do what they consider important in a programmed way. I can imagine that these situations can also very well be avoided. Am I getting that right? What does the Secretary of State expect in this respect? So it does not seem clear to me whether all the cuts will be implemented as planned. The confusion that has arisen will not be conducive to this either. In any case, the IPO once again raises the widespread fear that the programmed implementation will suffer. Of course, not cutting back would be the final solution for all the regional broadcasters involved. Under the present circumstances, there may be something to be said for that. Less cuts would also help. The least that can be asked is that the already promised reduction in the six-month cut of EUR 8.5 million will benefit all regional broadcasters in a balanced way, regardless of whether or not they wish to enter into austerity cooperation. This is the only way to draw the obvious consequence that the independent broadcasters now have the basic right to make their own decisions, in accordance with the ideas of the RPO or, if they think that this is detrimental, different from the ideas of the RPO. I would like to hear the Secretary of State's position on this. I believe that the background to the reduction promised was not the taking of measures as such, but the long-term uncertainty, which hindered the actual process and put broadcasters at a disadvantage in any case with regard to the processing of the cuts. Finally, I appreciate that the Secretary of State does not want the inclusion of a paragraph on the function, task and capabilities of Omrop Fryslân in the board meeting with the province of Friesland to wait for any further developments. I am convinced that a good wording can be agreed for this. I look forward to seeing it, as well as the Secretary of State's reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u29	Mr. Chairman. There are dances that seem like they do not go on, but which eventually lead to a very nice result. That's the kind of dance we've done here. We have talked about the Media Act in several ways and in various ways, and today we have a law that, as far as I am concerned, we can agree to. If you look it through your eye hairs a little bit, different things happen with this new law. Firstly, the shutters of the NPO are opening; there is greater access of people to the order who now have no access to it. The new ideas and, as far as I am concerned, the new programmes that come out of them are really enriching public service broadcasting. Secondly, there is less political influence on appointments, but also on programmes. This improves the independence of public service broadcasting. It's a step forward in the same dance I just mentioned. Thirdly, public involvement is increasing. I realise that broadcasting associations with their members also have influence, of course, but the fact that there is now more public involvement for the whole of public service broadcasting is the gain of this law. When I look at the commitments made by the Secretary of State in the previous debates, those are what my group has put forward in this proposal. We are satisfied with that. However, we still have some concern, because one of the things we have talked about a lot about in this House is progressing very slowly. We are very sorry that this has happened. We ask the Secretary of State how we proceed in this respect. Cooperation is very important, especially for regional broadcasters. As far as my group is concerned, our own view of the region must be very good. The regional broadcasters can put a strong stamp on this. It would therefore be a pity if, in the meantime, the lack of cooperation between regional broadcasters had led to a reduction in the level of support. I ask the Secretary of State how he intends to reverse this lurking loss. We therefore agree with the proposed additions to this legislative proposal, and we also have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u30	Thank you, Mrs Krikke. I give the floor to Mr Sietsma, but not until after I have sounded the bell to indicate that it is a maiden speech. We hope everyone realizes that. Mr Sietsma, you have the floor, even though they do not come running in droves yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u31	Mr. Chairman. Maybe during my speech. If that were a reason to come, that would be wonderful. Thanks for the reception and thanks for the word. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for their warm welcome. I will only stay in your midst for a few months, as you know, because I am here to replace Mr Mirjam Bikker. By the way, she has now had a beautiful son, David. A senior MP with a son. So I'll disappear in a few months. Four months is barely enough to work in. Although, this is now the third maiden speech I've prepared. I started with the Civil Service Act, a week or three ago, also an interesting subject. I would also like to talk about this, but two weeks ago it was about the contribution of convicted persons to the costs of criminal proceedings and victim assistance, also exciting. I didn't know much about that, but by now I'm pretty good at it. This is the third attempt. This maiden speech is about the Media Act. That's how you get a certain routine. By the time I leave here, I'm almost halfway there; in a month or two it'll be over again. I think I can do it. I hope you will allow me to reach a little higher in this speech than just the specific articles of the Media Act. I've got 15 minutes. I will stick to that, but I will put my speech in a somewhat larger context. I have said that I think the office of representative of the people is important and I am pleased to have accepted it. I place this work as part of the office. Prof. Donner, the old pro. A.M. Donner has trained me in this, also through his book General Administrative Law. It says that the word "office" says something about getting away from the fleetingness of the day. It says something about balance, state of law and sustainability. That means that being a government and being a representative of the people is not something that is a kind of balance between supply and demand in terms of: something is being asked, something is being offered and we must see to it that we make the right thing of it. We try to find in it standards that the King of kings places on us people to pursue the good and to leave the wrong. Mr. Chairman. Those are big words, the good. Who dares talk about it in this postmodern time? However, we continue to strive for this with each other and we must look for it. We know that ideologies become more dangerous the more good is pursued. We see that side too, but we also see that we cannot do without ideals and standards. My group and I personally would very much like to contribute to this in the time we have for this. Our broadcasting system is a wonderful example of this. Over the decades, a multiform broadcasting system has grown, in which the idea of values, good and beliefs has been made visible. Citizens have wanted to take responsibility, not only for broadcasters, but also for education and health. We know that, at this time, there is talk of the hidden society with some rage. In retrospective terms, we also see the disadvantages of compartmentalisation very well, but we should not close our eyes to the many good things that citizens' social forces have brought. A great deal has been achieved in the Netherlands by citizens themselves, without the government. We sometimes think that this modern intervention ladder is first the society and then the government is something of this time, but that started 100 years ago. It would be a good thing if we realised that at this time we have also lost a lot with fragmented social relations. The pacification that these columns created together has been of great importance for the stability of society. We find that third way between the discipline of the market and the sword of the government very attractive. In many cases, the third way can provide a solution between these two extremes. I'm getting to plurality. A few meters from here, the twelve flags of the provinces are flying. It was in 1579 that the Union of Utrecht was established, by the way, in Utrecht, as the beginning of our Dutch state. It is now all The Hague centered, understandable, but Utrecht was the start of the Netherlands at that time. Those twelve flags represent the pluralism of the people, not only philosophically, but also territorially. Today we are talking not only about the large national philosophical broadcasters, but also about the regional broadcasters. This decentralisation and pluralism is of great importance to the broadcasting system in my group. Let's get back to the national broadcasting organizations. They have 3 million members. Together they shape their ideals in a certain union democracy. As far as we are concerned, they have a great deal of weight in this respect, even when it comes to this legislative proposal. I admit that the 300 000 members of the political parties are not unimportant either, but state democracy has the monopoly of taxation, law and law, and so it can do a great deal. But not everything that can be done is necessary. So we also call for attention to be paid to the democracy that is taking shape in other ways in our society. We've received an additional bill. The Secretary of State is here today to talk to us about that. I would like to address the same points raised by my fellow Members. I will begin with the role of the minister in relation to public service broadcasting. The key issue is whether the pluralism of broadcasters is guaranteed, including in the long term. Will the Secretary of State again state that he will guarantee this pluralism in his supervision of the NPO? I would like to focus on a specific point. This concerns the 12 million promised by the Secretary of State in connection with the disappearance of Article 2.42 missionaries. As far as we are concerned, this 12 million was not intended to reduce the contribution of broadcasters to the philosophy of life, as it were, in terms of: you now have 12 million, but now all these programmes must be stripped of their beliefs. That money was intended to represent the institutions which are no longer there, because there is also, of course, a possibility of life-thinking in the programmes and, as far as we are concerned, desirable. I am asking a question about this because we are getting signals that this aspect is beginning to emerge when the NPO reviews the programmes. It is actually said that philosophical thinking is something for the 12 million, but otherwise the philosophy of life should not be overstated in the programmes. Can the Secretary of State assure me that this is not the way we should go? Then there is the question of directors and supervisors. We are satisfied with the way in which the Secretary of State will appoint the directors. We do have a question with the supervisors. The Secretary of State states that the Minister is the one who will examine the nominations of the Supervisory Board on the basis of a sort of marginal review. We believe that this is in principle a good line, but how is the Minister going to do that? I'll present the Secretary of State with the next case. There is a broadcaster who wants to perform an independent journalistic performance. Take OneToday to mention a program. AToday, an alleged miscarriage at the UWV wants to investigate. Could the fact that the chairman of the Supervisory Board also has a responsibility at UWV lead to a restriction of journalistic freedom? It seems like a theoretical issue, but it could happen tomorrow. What does the Secretary of State think about the incompatibility that should be observed by the Public Broadcasting Supervisory Board? Can the Secretary of State say anything about his interpretation of that important importance? Then I come to the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters themselves. The NPO shall become a cooperation and coordination body. It's a Zbo. With this it has a form of government authority and government power. It has to be, because the money has to be distributed. There must be supervision and binding decisions must be taken. Would the Secretary of State once again like to assure that the relationship between NPO and broadcasters is not a holding company, with sub-clubs, but a self-employed, autonomous broadcasters, which, although a coordination and coordination body is competent, does not replace broadcasters. I ask this because many of the broadcasting's communications show that the NPO considers itself as if it were at the place of the broadcasting. In my opinion and in our opinion, it is the broadcasters who are responsible for the programmes. The NPO should organise coordination and coordination. Will the Secretary of State ensure that this is reflected in the communication of the NPO as well? In this context, colleagues have just asked whether it would not be better if the instruments that the NPO will soon be able to apply were provided with an advisory right. We would like to ask the Secretary of State again because we do not now see how broadcasters are in a position to develop these instruments and measures. I come now to the social advisory board. The question has already been asked: why is such a council still needed alongside three million members? What can five or ten people add to those three million members of the broadcasters, who already represent the people with their membership money and their involvement in broadcasting. What exactly is the Advisory Council going to do, and to whom is it responsible? As regards the representativeness of the Advisory Council itself, the Secretary of State has set out four criteria under which the assessment is to be carried out. I think it's about education, age, gender and descent. However, one can well imagine that with a very heterogeneous interpretation of these four criteria a very one-sided council is created. Imagine having a social advisory board made up of people of all ages, origin, education and gender, all of whom have been reformed, to name but a few. Would the Secretary of State like that? Of course, this is not our proposal. I merely advocate that we include philosophical differentiation in the composition of the social advisory council. Otherwise, we may still end up under a kind of yoke of a consultative council that has been set up unilaterally. I would also like to comment on the regional broadcasters. We are a little shocked by the situation that has arisen and by what we hear and see in the country. I don't know if the motion of the Provincial States of Brabant has been taken. It is a worrying motion: it shows concern, but it has also disturbed us. The King's Commissioner, too, is an authority bearer who is not known for his intransigence.................................................................................................................................................................................................. He said we shouldn't touch their regional broadcasters. He said it in a slightly different way, but I'm just saying it here nicely and tempered. How does the Secretary of State view this unrest? This is not what we want. We want a regional broadcaster that adds something in the country to what we are doing at the centre and which, from the strength of the region, gives substance to involvement, identity, education and all the things that we mean by our broadcasting system. How did we get involved in this situation, in which regional broadcasting seems to be getting out of hand? Can the Secretary of State help us, either by giving us a hand in the matter of austerity, my group wishes to underline what others have said, or by ensuring more at system level that the broadcasters together form the strength that we need in our society? As far as we are concerned, the key question in this legislative proposal is whether this has been put to rest for 10 or 20 years in the broadcasting system. I am not asking that question rhetorically, but really as a substantive question to the Secretary of State. I conclude by saying that we are a country of minorities and that we will remain absolutely in the future. We see what's going on in society. The strength of the Netherlands has always been that we are a guide country in respect for each other's opinions, especially in terms of belief in life. That is the strength my group is keen to maintain, and that is why we want to maintain the pluralism of broadcasting. We use the knowledge of history. We know what Bernard van Chartres said: if we can see better and know better than our ancestors, it is because we stand on their shoulders. It's not because we know better, but because we carry their experiences in us. So we stand on the shoulders of our ancestors. I would almost say that the ancestors also look down on us. Up here, on the ceiling, we see our stadholder Willem III, who looks down on us as a young man. He can be called one of Europe's greatest politicians or statesmen in the last centuries. We believe that we are able to continue to work with the knowledge and commitment of our ancestors in the future on a society in which freedom and pluralism exist. The task is to each one of us to do 'good', which is what we mean by it. With this mission, we can move forward together with our broadcasters. My group is happy to await the answer of the Secretary of State. We're very curious what he's coming up with. We're not there yet, but who knows what might happen next.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u32	Mr Sietsma, let me first say that I find it extraordinary that you have practically kept your maiden speech out of your head. Every speech is difficult to prepare properly, and you'll fall right in. It's also the third maiden speech you've prepared. You spoke him out of the head with full force. My compliments on that. I would also like to say that we have already been in full employment twice in order to congratulate you on your maiden speech. Today, that is finally possible. I would therefore like to congratulate you warmly. But we had even more troubles because the other maiden speeches didn't go through: every time there were flowers to swallow. So it was also always the question of what to do with the bouquet. At least today they have a destination. You already know you're going to get flowers. Three times is charm! Your maiden speech in this house today is not your first acquaintance with the parliament or your debut as a popular representative. We have already seen that you do not shy away from the debate. You've been at the Interrupt Microphone a number of times. I noticed that you didn't have any trouble holding that button down. That is not funny at all; new Members of Parliament often have difficulty with this at first. But for you, it was all cut cake. It was crazy. Public administration and politics play an important role in your life. Serving the public cause is therefore a constant feature of your career. Until recently, your political activities and your active life were largely at the local and provincial levels. This is how you started in 1970 as an apprentice officer in the municipality of Adorp. In the 1980s, you were still a policy officer in the Kennemerland region. From 1995 to 2000, you were the secretary-director of the Utrecht region. From 2000 to 2011 you were the provincial secretary and general director of the province of Utrecht. We have also just heard you make a flaming speech about Utrecht's important position in our country and in the history of our country. From 2011 to 2013 you worked for the Flemish-Dutch Delta, the partnership between Dutch and Flemish provinces. I have already said it, and you have also manifested it: you clearly have a fondness for the Utrecht region. Now you are the director of House Doorn and Castle Amerongen. House Doorn in particular has been in the news in recent years, on the one hand, because of the beautiful renovations that have been carried out, but on the other hand because of the financial difficulties caused by previously imposed national austerities. That seems to be solved now, after the last Prince's Day: there will, I understand, be additional subsidies for these beautiful castles. I see you nodding, so it's true. During your career you got the need to become politically active yourself. From 1990 to 2000 you were a member of Ermelo City Council for the then combined group of RPF and GPV. For the younger listeners, where present: those were the forerunners of the present Christian Union. In this context, it may also be mentioned that from 1977 to 1979 you were a member of the provinces and municipalities of the Groen van Prinster Foundation, the scientific institute of the then GPV. Today you stand in the First Chamber of the States General, again to be of service. That's you in two ways. Firstly, by replacing your respected party mate Mirjam Bikker on maternity leave. We have been told that, as you yourself said, she gave birth on 4 October to a son who bears the name of David. So your mission here is finished, because you will only replace her on maternity leave. Secondly, you are serving by representing your party in this house. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. To be honest, I hope you can still use the other maiden speeches. They're just not maiden speeches anymore, they're regular speeches. I shall now suspend the sitting, not only to give my fellow Members the opportunity to congratulate Mr Sietsma, but also because of the dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u33	Mr. Chairman. It is perhaps a good thing to underline that the examination of this bill in this Chamber is the culmination of a period in which we have discussed in detail the amendment of the Media Act. I would like to do a round, if only to give Mr Sietsma the opportunity to make his maiden speech. I congratulate him on this and congratulate him on the colour of his tie; excellent choice. Good and important discussions have been held on the tasks of public service broadcasting, on independence and on relations in the system. These discussions have led to the legislative proposal that we are all discussing here today, with a number of additions and clarifications to the previous amendments. With the assent of the Chamber to this bill, I hope at least that all changes relating to national public service broadcasting will enter into force. That is how we come to a conclusion. It is also time to complete the legislative amendment and put the uncertainty for public service broadcasting behind us. Public service broadcasting must be able to work on the basis of the amended Media Act, face the challenges it faces and not only be inward-looking, but also outward-looking. There are the biggest challenges: how do we reach more people? How do we bind young people to public service broadcasting? How do we deal with big players like Netflix and Facebook? We are doing this on the basis of the valuable programmes made by individual broadcasters, something which this bill, like the previous one, fully preserves. The proposal also builds on the cooperation needed to meet the challenges. Mr Sietsma spoke in his speech on pluralism. That is something very nice in our Dutch broadcasting system. It is a question of maintaining the strength of the current system in the combination of cooperation and pluralism. But we also need to renew it, with a view to the future, in order to allow more cooperation and to attract more pluralism from the outside, by opening the order and allowing more creative competition. I am convinced that the law of 16 March and this supplementary bill can serve as a solid basis for strengthening core tasks. That's the most important change in the bill. Programmes must have added value and add something. Secondly, this is a more open system, in which producers and civil society organisations from outside can also immediately contact the NPO with ideas for programmes. Thirdly, it is a more directing role for the NPO; from a coordinating body to a steering body for public service broadcasting as a whole. Several questions have been asked about regional broadcasting. Strictly speaking, the legislative proposal before us today is not about that, but I think it is perfectly understandable that several spokesmen have spoken about it, also because this issue played an important role in the previous debate and in the light of current developments. My suggestion would be that I go first into the bill itself, in a number of cubes. I would like to begin by asking a few questions about the appointment procedure. Secondly, I would like to address the questions that have been raised about the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. Then I would like to go into the third block about public involvement and the social advisory board. Then I would like to say something about transparency, which has played a major role in the debate on the supplementary legislative proposal. In a fifth block I go into the questions about regional broadcasting. Finally, there are a number of varieties, including the question of the performance agreement and the questions that have been asked about beliefs. I'll start with the appointment procedure. The course taken by this supplementary legislative proposal is based on a more guiding role of the NPO, which makes it desirable that the distance from politics should increase when it comes to the appointments of the boards of directors and supervisory boards. That was a very specific subject of discussion at the time. This is why the appointment procedures for the Governing Board and the Supervisory Board of both the NPO and the RPO are amended with this bill, so that there can be no appearance of any political interference. The members of the Management Board shall be appointed, suspended and dismissed directly by the Supervisory Board. If this bill is passed, the Minister will no longer be present. The change in the procedure for the appointment of the Supervisory Boards of both the NPO and the RPO ensures that a recruitment and selection procedure is created which is completely removed from the Minister. There is only marginal review. A number of questions have been asked, and I will answer them in a moment. First of all, I would like to comment on recent appointments, which have actually been made under the regime of the old law. Mr Lintmeijer asked a question about this, as did Mrs Sent. It concerns the appointment of Mrs Rijxman and Mr Van Westen. In an earlier debate, I said that if appointments were made to the board of directors of the NPO, which we did not foresee at the time, I would do so in the spirit of the new law. That's what happened. I indicated at the time that I would agree in advance with the proposals of the Supervisory Board, regardless of the nomination that would be made. That's how it turned out. Mrs Rijxman has now taken over Mr Hagoort's chair. Mr Van Westen has, by the way, temporarily taken his place as the second director alongside Mrs Rijxman. Mr Sietsma asked about the importance of the matter. Mr Schalk also asked questions about this. What exactly does this mean and how do we ensure that we do not keep going in circles when candidates for the Supervisory Board are brought up again and again to whom this important interest applies? I think it is important to stress that the important issue is really an exception. These are matters which do not fall within the incompetences already laid down in the Media Act, but which are such that they seriously hamper confidence in the proper functioning of the candidate, endanger confidence in the position of the Supervisory Board or the NPO in any other way. For example, there may be a major interest if, following the opinion of the appointment advisory committee, it appears that the intended member is being called into question because of an issue that cannot be reconciled with the irrefutableness that one might expect from supervisors. Think, for example, of criminal offences or an undercurate thesis. That shows for some time that it is for very serious reasons. If such a procedure is to be'sent back' and followed again, I say to Mr Schalk, then I cannot imagine that it would occur a second time. At least we shouldn't have that ping-pong. It is not the case that the Minister himself can look for candidates. Should it happen again, then, of course, at some point, the question arises whether the appointment advisory committee is doing its job well. Then the Supervisory Board will intervene. If the Supervisory Board does not intervene, you might wonder, in the event of an escalation, whether the Supervisory Board is doing its job properly, or whether there may be job neglect. Then the law does offer opportunities for the cabinet or for the minister to intervene. However, this is such a huge hypothetical case that I cannot imagine that it will occur. At the core, what is ahead here is a strong improvement over what was lying there. In any case, appointments are much more limited to arm length. Mr Atsma asked how others, for example broadcasters, are involved in appointments. They are strongly involved, as are the joint works councils, the NIS, the NTR and the social advisory council, which I will say a little more about later. Each gives views on the profiles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u34	I don't know if the Secretary of State was done with his block, but my question was a little more specific. It was about incompatibility in the context of journalistic freedom. Is it not the case that journalists working in public service broadcasting and thus dealing with their own administration, but also with the complex of the NPO, should be protected from supervision by persons with other interests, namely interests that may be the subject of journalistic research?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u35	Anyone can, of course, at any time be subject to journalistic research, but I suspect that the theoretical, hypothetical case presented by Mr Sietsma will not arise. First of all, the NPO does not employ journalists. The NPO doesn't make programs either. That's what the broadcasters do. That is why we have legal safeguards regarding the editorial autonomy of broadcasters. The NPO as a whole is a long way from that. That certainly applies to the Supervisory Board. In an earlier debate, I spoke in detail about incompatibility. They are all neatly described in the law that regulates incompatibility. A number of additional inconsistencies have been included in the Media Act. This is without prejudice, of course, to the fact that any chairman, whatever his position, can also work at an organisation once under journalism investigation. After all, it is a side-function. Mr Sietsma mentioned the example of the UWV. He probably didn't choose that at random, but because the current chairman is also a board member there. He could also be CEO of a big company. This also fits into the current legislation and is not incompatible. Such a company can of course also become the subject of research. The Supervisory Board of the NPO is very far away from the final journalists. This is because the NPO does not make programmes and the law guarantees the editorial form and content of programmes made by broadcasters. On top of that, there are also editing regulations on these matters within broadcasting associations that govern how to conduct good, independent journalism in such cases. That's why I'm not worried about this. Finally, Mr Lintmeijer asked whether these agreements on appointments fit well within the European audiovisual directives. Those directives do not specifically prescribe how public service broadcasting should be appointed. They provide some room for Member States. If I compare the procedure for the appointment of directors and supervisors with neighbouring countries, I note that we have set up a very careful and independent procedure, especially if we adopt this bill. Compared to England or Belgium, this is far more political than it is. From appointments, one of the major themes in this bill, I go to the clarification in this bill about the role of the NPO, the role of the broadcasters and how they relate to each other. I think we have secured that very well, especially with the additional clarifications and clarifications in this bill. It is good that I explain it again, also because almost everyone has asked questions about it. With Mr Atsma, it was an extensive part of his speech. Mr Schnabel went into it. This is the core, where it must be clear exactly how the proportions lie. The NPO always carries out its coordinating and guiding tasks within the framework of the law. It is stipulated that the NPO does not make programmes, but has a coordinating role in programming. The NPO is a programming body. The NPO also makes policy. For this purpose, too, the frameworks are laid down in this law. He takes the initiative in setting up the programming frameworks, as set out in, for example, the concession policy plan, the performance agreement and the profiles of the supply channels. For the sake of clarity, I should like to refer to Articles 2.2 and 2.52, in which they are precisely listed. That's the role of the NPO. Broadcasters are the bodies that make programmes. They produce and they determine their form and content, but within the framework of the law. That, too, is clearly stated in the law. What is described in the law is framework for them. That is the same triche I have just referred to: the concession policy plan, the performance agreement and the profiles of the supply channels. That's what the NPO's testing for. In my view, this is a very clear division of tasks, roles and powers. Where it was not already clear, at least this legislative proposal clarifies it. Mr Sietsma has a point. For his group and Mrs Bikker, who may return soon, this was one of the important points at the time. It is precisely at the request of Mrs Bikker and at her suggestion that I said that this is a point that we could clarify even more. That rounds the circle. Then they asked what that looks like in practice. Let me take the example of the presenters. A number of Members have asked for this. It is not so much as I would say that this is explicitly not the case that the NPO decides who is the presenter and what journalistic choices need to be made. That is explicitly the role of a broadcaster. That's what the law says. However, there is consultation between broadcasters and the NPO on programming. But at the end of the day, a broadcaster decides which programme it proposes. The NPO decides which broadcasting proposal best matches the frameworks and objectives in the genre scheme and what best fits the composite profiles. After all, we have an NPO to ensure that there is coherent programming. The NPO always looks at the whole proposal, the whole format, the profile that is presented. The profile of a presenter is often part of that, but the NPO is not explicitly about its interpretation. That's a choice of broadcasters. Ultimately, this leads to a decision, a formal decision to allocate hours, in which the NPO determines which programmes receive budget and transmission time. Then there is always a possibility for broadcasters to appeal and object if they do not agree with the decision taken by the NPO. This is, in my view, a system in which relations are clear and the independence of broadcasters is protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u36	I'm making a one-two with Mr. Atsma, who's behind me. The Secretary of State therefore excludes that it is possible for one of the broadcasters to submit a proposal that is rejected on the grounds that the host does not fit the profile the NPO had devised?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u37	When broadcasters submit a programme proposal, they make a format. For example, when you ask for an in-depth journalism programme aimed at young people, there are all kinds of ideas. All kinds of broadcasters come up with a format and indicate what they want to do. They say what kind of themes might be covered and what kind of presenter with what kind of profile they are thinking. That's what the NPO's testing on. In the end, it is up to the broadcasters to make programmes according to the agreements they have made with the NPO. They also make the choice for a presenter. Afterwards, the NPO can always check whether the agreements have actually been met, but that can never be done in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u38	Again. Suppose a broadcaster comes up with the idea of creating a programme for young people with a critical young presenter, who is already familiar with critical programmes, which I have also quoted here. We don't mention the name, but what if the network put up a profile like that? So you do not think it is possible for the NPO to say that the format is good, but that the profile of the presenter is not quite right and that the proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u39	In case of not all formats that are submitted, the name of the host is already given. But if it does happen, then there can of course be discussion: for example, if a broadcaster at NPO 3 wants to create a programme for young people with a very appealing host of the same generation, but then comes up with a 65-plusr. This will be the subject of discussion, because that does not fit in with the format submitted by the broadcaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u40	Then I can only conclude that the NPO can have a de facto influence on what that programme looks like. I don't want to do age discrimination. I think a 65-year-old could really appeal to young people. Why does the Secretary of State think that this is an independent way of completing the programme format?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u41	Mr Nagel, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u42	I know from broadcasting practice that there can also be different views about presenters within a particular broadcaster. That is not objective. For example, the people who make Sesame Street have a very different age than the generational peers the Secretary of State mentioned. A Koos Postema is a welcome guest at a typically youthful program like De Wereld Rott Door. In short, you can't judge that patronizingly. You just have to leave that to a network.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u43	I totally agree with that. I think the NPO agrees with that, too. That is what she agreed and stipulated in the letter she sent to this Chamber in February. The choice for a specific presenter is ultimately up to the broadcaster. There can be no discussion about that. However, discussion may arise as to whether the profile fits, for example, within the channel profile or the concession policy plan, but the same applies to the content format of a program.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u44	So the Secretary of State says that there may be discussion about the profile of the presenter. It's not here yet, but it's very close.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u45	No, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u46	Doesn't it have to, or doesn't it, and can't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u47	Clear agreements have been made. The choice for specific journalistic topics or for specific presenters is up to the broadcasters. That's what the law says, and that's what it says in the letter that followed. This seems to me to be a very clear line, but in the end the NPO programme formats and profiles should be able to check against its own transmitter profiles, its concession policy plan and the desired appearance of a transmitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u48	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u49	Then I can only conclude that the NPO can have a de facto influence on the choice of the presenters: perhaps not exactly on the name, but indeed on the profile.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u50	That is precisely the distinction between the programming frameworks and the specific journalistic choices in making the programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u51	The profile is arbitrary by definition, isn't it? Who, other than the broadcaster broadcasting the Netherlands Zingt programme, can better assess what the profile of a presenter should be, if necessary, than the broadcaster itself? It is weird that you should have a third party over there who is going to judge that again, regardless of the fact that the February letter was only endorsed by a minority of broadcasters when you look at the membership numbers. I do not think that the Secretary of State should always come back to that. That letter is written, but is not carried by a majority of its members. Let's just establish that. I will not go back to that. I want to get back to those profiles. It's very arbitrary. Who's gonna check this out? How are you gonna organize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u52	In my view, this will sometimes be the subject of some discussion, although the framework is ready to go. The journalistic choices for themes, form and content.............................................................................................................................................................................. The NPO has the task of checking whether a format or profile meets its search criteria. He doesn't do that completely blindfolded. A broadcaster must outline what this program is going to look like: what genre is it? What is the approach of the program? Does the program have a presenter or not? What profile are you looking for? Otherwise, the NPO doesn't have any clue as to whether such a program fits into a transmitter profile? Isn't that what he's got to look at? This law clearly describes what can be tested. That's limitative. I can get the list. It concerns the concession policy plan, the performance agreement, the profiles of the supply channels and so on. On all these matters, substantive agreements have been made with the public service broadcaster as a whole. He'll have to meet that. Surely the NPO has to be able to check on that somehow?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u53	Now we're a little further away from what I thought I could determine earlier. During the last period, and also in the answer given by the Secretary of State, it was very clear that the broadcasters are 100% responsible for the content and format of the programmes and so on. A part of this can also be the presentation, just to stick to that example. As the Secretary of State points out, in a number of cases it becomes complicated again. I understand that this discussion has also been held on various fronts over the past summer months. Let us agree that the broadcasters themselves have that freedom. They're not crazy either. They have a constituency of four, five, six, seven hundred thousand members. They know exactly what to do. I can imagine that the NPO may want to reconsider this in the future, but as the Secretary of State puts it now, it is first with the water for the doctor before the light goes green. Please let those broadcasters control that themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u54	Mr Atsma does shop a bit selectively in the law. He refers to the article of law which states that broadcasters themselves determine form and content. The same article also states that this must be done within the framework of the law. It also sets out very clearly that the NPO draws up the programming frameworks: the concession policy plans, the performance agreements and the profiles of the supply channels. That's all in the law. The NPO programs can also check on that. Otherwise, he won't be able to assemble a net. The NPO is not a box filler that places everything it is offered, regardless of content, in an hour lock. It is thought about how to arrange an interesting television evening and which audience you want to connect to which channel. In this discussion, there will always be talk about the formats and the profiles of the programmes that broadcasters want to create.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u55	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u56	I do object, however, to the words of the Secretary of State that I would shop selectively. I'm not the kind of guy who picks up some groceries in the shelves and throws them in a basket. I referred in my contribution to the constitutional right of broadcasters to decide for themselves what the programmes are going to look like, who they are going to make the programmes with and how they are going to do it. That's a little more than selective shopping. I am sorry that we have to have this discussion again. I thought we had achieved almost complete clarity about the intention. In the Lower House, too, the State Secretary, in response to motions tabled on this subject, indicated that it was unnecessary for him to do so, because that constitutional area and freedom are present at the broadcasters. It'll be secured, too. Then you shouldn't bring all that up; I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u57	The law is perfectly clear on this point. She is getting even clearer with this supplementary bill. This explains the programmatic frameworks that the NPO may use to test proposals. So that is not arbitrary, but it is the transmitter profiles, the concession policy plan, the performance agreements and so on. If the NPO is to perform its task properly, we must also give him something to do so. Those are the substantive frameworks, and not the other ones. They are listed exhaustively in the law, so they must always be traceable to one of the policy-based programming frameworks. But here and there there will be a lot of discussion about whether a program format as provided by a broadcaster fits on a particular station. That is what is happening now. For many of the time locks for which the NPO is looking for programmes, several broadcasters submit a proposal. Then the NPO always makes a trade-off to see which programs fit best. The NPO doesn't do that blindly. It is not the case that he looks at this as some sort of divisive justice, whether all broadcasters receive the same amount of broadcasting time. That is what he is doing by checking, with a substantive look, on the basis of the programming frameworks that we have laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u58	We note with gratitude that the Secretary of State has exhausted himself, in writing but also now, in emphasising the autonomy of the broadcasters. That is very crucial for us. We are talking about the instruments and their operation, which will have to be practiced in practice. It is therefore necessary to establish a practice to determine whether these instruments are applicable by properly representing the steering side and the side of autonomy. We have our ideas on this, even here in the Chamber. A number of broadcasters are sceptical about this. They literally write that journalistic freedom is still in danger. Those are big words, used by a number of large broadcasters. Wouldn't it be practical not to discuss these instruments to the letter at this point, because I am testing the Secretary of State's intention to realize what has been exchanged before, but to assess the satisfaction of broadcasters as an indicator of the functioning of the law? I mean the following: that the Secretary of State and his successors report to the Chambers once a year or once every two years on this issue of maintaining the autonomy of broadcasters, which is a very important point, because it is at the heart of our multi-faceted society, and in particular how the broadcasters experience it. We can now talk about an instrument more or less, but the practice will still be how the NPO will develop towards the broadcasters. There is something to be said for both points of view. The broadcasters are not satisfied, the other side is there. Can we not gradually assess the process and then, if necessary, adjust it? Is the Secretary of State prepared to make some kind of information meeting with the Chambers on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u59	It's always good to see how things work out in practice. Moreover, I do not know whether the satisfaction of the broadcasters is the best indicator for this. Because we see that there is a discussion about this law where some broadcasters say: we do not want anyone to interfere with our programmes at all, just give us a block of time, then we decide what we do in it. This has happened in the past, but we should not go back there. In any case, I would find that very unwise. Then it is almost tempting to measure the satisfaction of the broadcasters. Well, then I'll know what they're gonna fill out in that survey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u60	Mr Sietsma wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u61	The statement that the views of broadcasters would not play a crucial role surprises me, especially in the light of the social advisory board that is still to be set up and which is perhaps going to play a major role. For now you are making it very difficult, if a body to be set up at random will be given a role, but the broadcasters who have tried and tested historical and social roots are obviously not relevant when it comes to the implementation of autonomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u62	We need to look at whether the autonomy we have now codified is being implemented in accordance with the rules. Or do we see that one party regularly goes over a line and pulls on a bigger pair of pants than it should be? Is the NPO going to interfere with presenters? I'd be curious to find out. But then we shouldn't look at the satisfaction. I know how that goes: in Hilversum too, there are a number of broadcasters that the NPO would prefer to abolish tomorrow. I would find that very unwise, because I think that the NPO plays a very important role, precisely in order to put things right as a whole, in order to put a common thread around public service broadcasting. But a number of broadcasters say: the less interference, the better. If we then ask for their satisfaction and they know that you will come back to that, I know exactly what they are going to fill out. I don't think that's a good method and I don't think that's a good indicator of how to do it. What can be...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u63	The Secretary of State talks about a controversy of possible agreements, which, according to him, secures journalistic independence. That's the concession plan and the performance agreement. It is true that the broadcasters are allowed to talk about this. But the board of the NPO can decide not to do anything about it. So what are the possibilities for broadcasters to reach agreements? Then what are the possibilities of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u64	There are. Then I come directly to the point that Mr Sietsma raises: we can use formal appeals and objections, in other words, on the basis of the statements made in those proceedings, to see whether the NPO and the broadcasters respect their legal functions and tasks properly. Because appeals and objections are always handed down. If broadcasters think the NPO is out of line, I would say: pull the bell by making a case. If you win it, you have a point. Unlike some kind of survey of satisfaction, we can keep up with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u65	Last point, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u66	But I think the NPO would have done its legal job. He's had a meeting. All he's decided to do is take the advice away from him. In my view, the law does not state that this can still be rectified by appeal and objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u67	When it comes to the choices for the placement of individual programmes, I refer to the journalistic choices, the choices for presenters and so on, other broadcasters can appeal and object if the NPO does not comply with the law or its own regulations. If they really have a point, they'll be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u68	I would like to take away the impression that the broadcasters do not want to participate in the present legislative proposal. Because there is indeed a letter dated 28 February, signed by the NPO and a majority of broadcasters. I say to Mr Nagel that the counting of members is not on the agenda, because broadcasters such as NOS and NTR, two broadcasters that have signed, do not know any members. That letter sets out very clearly what is meant by substantive frameworks, with which they are linked, and that choices made by presenters and so on are not part of the substantive framework. Can the Secretary of State confirm that he supports the methodology set out in this letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u69	Totally yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u70	I would just like to say a few words about the firm controversies which, according to the Secretary of State, the NPO must abide by. It's in the law, too. In Article 2.2 the guiding functions and powers of the NPO are linked to the commitments and strategy as described in the concession policy plan and so on. I have just asked for it, but I have not yet received an answer from the Governing Council that the board can test it against that whole sadness. That's causing some confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u71	This should be read as follows. Article 2.2 limits the aforementioned frameworks. It's an exhaustive list. In Article 2.52, a possibility clause was chosen because not all frameworks are always relevant in the review of programme proposals. Let me give you an example. There is nothing in the budget about the substantive review framework for programmes. So you are never obliged to use the budget when checking programs. In order to reassure Mr Schalk, that bill should not be read as a kind of freedom that the NPO would have to maintain in addition to the substantive frameworks listed in Article 2.2 another framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u72	I think it's important for the history of law that it's expressed in this way. Otherwise it could be read that it is a kind of free choice. But that is absolutely not the case, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u73	That's right. The assessment has to do with the relevance. Not all frameworks set out in Article 2.2. to be drawn up by the NPO are relevant for the review of programmes or programme profiles as submitted. Then Mr Schalk's explanation is correct. Mr. Chairman. We talked about the letter. Mrs. Sent asked for that. These are, in my view, sound statements, which are a further clarification of the frameworks that we all lay down in the law and which should now be laid down in a co-ordination regulation. A number of members, such as Mr Nagel, asked what would happen if the NPO did not. I find that almost unpredictable, because there is a letter with the signatures of adult people, of expensive drivers underneath. I'm assuming they're doing it one-on-one. If that is not the case, I also assume that the Supervisory Board will intervene, because then there will no longer be good governance. We have exactly a supervisory board to correct the board at such a time. Other questions have been asked about the co-ordination rules. It was noted that this is an important binding regulation in Hilversum. Would it not be desirable to give the broadcasters a heavier voice in this, for example by introducing a formal right of advice? I would not be in favour of that, because it is a very strong way of formalising and bureaucraticising the route and the establishment of the coordination rules. Already, the NPO often consults and consults when adopting a co-ordination regulation. As stated in the letter, we can also make very good agreements. At some point, the NPO cuts the knot and lays down such a regulation. If we were to introduce a formal advisory right, the trial would only begin. Weekly periods will apply. The Management Board should then make adjustments and motivate all responses. He can't just ignore advice. This should always be done through a formal route, through the Supervisory Board. That's a huge detour. I don't think that's wise. It leads to much longer decision-making processes and much more bureaucracy. In my view, it is less workable and at least contrary to what we have intended to do with this bill, namely more capacity for action and greater power for action in Hilversum. I come to the next block, namely public involvement, the third element in this supplementary legislative proposal. Several questions have also been asked on this subject. A number of members have indicated that the drafting of the Social Advisory Council is in line with the ideas discussed in the previous debate. For example, Mr Atsma has asked the more fundamental question of the added value of such a social advisory council. How does it relate to the members of the broadcasting organizations? It is good to emphasise here that the task of the NPO to organise public engagement is not to replace broadcasters or their members, but to complement them. The broadcasters and their members focus on their own objectives and their own programmes. They will discuss this with their members. That also fits the role they have in the order. They make and produce the programs. By being in conversation with their supporters, they create a bond and ensure that their programs connect with their own members, with their audience. In this way they can give form and content to their identity and carry out their mission. At the NPO, public involvement has a very different purpose. The NPO doesn't make programs. The NPO has the task of monitoring the profile of the public service broadcaster as a whole. He thus also has a broader view of society, including people who are not members of a public service broadcaster. For example, the NPO can review policy choices and programming as a whole, through the concession policy plan, network profiles and channel profiles, including for target groups less well represented by broadcasting associations. For example, we see that young people and non-Western immigrants are much less members, while we want those target groups to feel well represented by public broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u74	I still don't get the difference. The broadcasters are now member organisations. I understand that they are working very well together and that they do have an idea of what is going on in general. They have an interest in bringing in new members. The recruitment of members is therefore also very much on the agenda of the broadcasters. What is the added value of a social advisory council? It is said that it would have more regard for the whole, but I cannot imagine that the broadcasters now have no regard for the whole. Can the Secretary of State go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u75	The broadcasters are very valuable. They have relatively many members, 3.5 million in total. That's an incredibly big sum. However, some target groups are less well represented. For example, many fewer young people are members of a broadcasting association; often they are older people. That is not a problem in itself, but if the NPO is given the task of providing public service broadcasting for everyone, I think it is important that he also looks at the target groups that are less well represented by the broadcasters. The same applies to non-Western immigrants, who are much less often members of a broadcasting association. It is fine if broadcasters try to commit themselves to those target groups, but that is not the case for the time being. I think the NPO has a job to do. Secondly, broadcasters and NPO do other things. Broadcasts create programs and thus enter into conversation with their supporters. Take the EO and the way in which philosophy gets a place in its programs. The EO asks his supporters: do you recognize yourself in it or would you do so in a different way? I think that is a very good conversation in itself. But that is a conversation about the programmes created by one broadcaster. The NPO has an important role to play in designing the substantive frameworks for the broadcasting of the whole: the establishment of a concession policy plan, the making of the station profiles, the conclusion of performance agreements on public service broadcasting objectives as a whole. I do not mind at all as additional to conversations that broadcasters have with members about programmes, the NPO also looks at whether the policy he is launching and designing is also in line with the societal question and whether all people recognise themselves in it. The Social Advisory Council can play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u76	If the NPO is so capable of consulting with the public broadcasters, why doesn't the NPO see that these public broadcasters are already doing a lot to reach new audiences? Broadcasts are also modernising and finding other channels to reach people. Why doesn't the Secretary of State see the strength in that? Why would he want to set up such an extra organ? I still don't understand that. I have another supplementary question. Both broadcasters and such an advisory board are going to give an opinion to the NPO on reaching more people. How do these advices go together? What is ultimately chosen for? I don't see that sequel. Suppose the public broadcasters want to reach out to the public in a different way than how such an advisory board would like to do so, who will ultimately do something, and who will ultimately cut the knot through which plan is followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u77	It's not one thing or the other, it's one thing and the other. The draft of the substantive frameworks, I quote as an example, yet again the concession policy plan, which never comes into being in isolation. Drafting is always carried out in good consultation, including with the broadcasting organizations that have an opinion on this issue. They are all taken into account in their creation. At the same time, we must note that there are blind spots. There are target groups that are less well-achieved by traditional broadcasting organisations. If you ask the NPO to take care of a public broadcaster that is not only there for 3.5 million members, but for 17 million Dutch people, you must also give the NPO an instrument to listen to the audiences who feel less well represented, in addition to the conversations with the broadcasters. In addition, the NPO and the broadcasters have separate tasks and the social advisory council also has a separate task. One of the things proposed in this bill is that the Social Advisory Council can also give an insight into the profiles of future members of the Supervisory Board. Many of you have asked whether this is unnecessarily bureaucratic or institutionalized. I don't think this is necessary. I understand from the NPO that he wants to do this in a flexible way and that he wants to set up a representative and diverse board when there is a vacancy on the Supervisory Board. The way this is done must fit within the framework of the law. If it does justice to what is in the law, without leading to an institutionalized bureaucratic monstrosity, I think it is a healthy quest that sounds reasonable to me. What exactly does the representative mean? In the explanatory memorandum, I have indicated that, for example, there is a variety of compositions based on age, sex, education and origin. I say to Mr Sietsma that this is not an exclusive list as far as I am concerned; other criteria such as the philosophical background can also play a role in this. Both Mr Schalk and Mr Sietsma asked a question about the status of the opinions to be delivered by the Social Advisory Council. I would like to stress once again that this is about opinions rather than binding opinions. It is the statutory and statutory task of the Supervisory Board of the NPO to establish the profiles if there are job vacancies. The law writes on the submission of views to that effect. There are also other bodies which can submit views, such as the works council or the other broadcaster. Questions have been asked about transparency. Transparency is something that this law does not prescribe, but what Mrs Sent mentioned at that time in the context of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u78	Is this still on the previous subject, Mr Atsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u80	Well, I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u81	Yes. The Secretary of State mentioned transparency and I assume that transparency is also important for the composition of the Advisory Council. The question of how the Advisory Council could be constituted has been raised. It is not entirely clear to me whether the role of the Advisory Council, for example when it comes to the profiles of the members of the Supervisory Board, will become one-on-one the same as that of the Board of Appeals or of the member organisations. Is the weight of the Advisory Council the same as the weight assigned to the representatives of the three million two hundred and fifty-two thousand plus some more members? I think it is important to hear that from the Secretary of State. How are the members of the Advisory Council recruited? One of my fellow Members has also asked for this, and I believe that the answer to that question is still to be found in the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u82	This law does not comment on the specific content and formal requirements of such a social advisory council There is some free space for the NPO to decide whether to include ten or perhaps twenty members. The law provides that the Advisory Council must be established and reviewed in a representative and diverse manner. The Supervisory Board will also be keen on this. A second question concerns the weighting of views. Do the views of the social advisory council weigh more heavily or less heavily than those of broadcasters? This law does not contain any statements on this matter either. An opinion is a view that the Supervisory Board should ultimately take advantage of. I think that the weight of the view may also depend on the quality of the view and on the extent to which the view stands and puts new, good arguments on the table. I can well imagine a proposal being put forward to the works council, to the broadcasters and to such a social advisory council, with the question: do you have any additions to this, because the supervisory board thinks it is so good? Do you have any ideas? Have we missed things? A view is a view and the degree of gravity will depend on the quality of the content of the view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u83	Very briefly on this point, Mr Atsma!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u84	This is perhaps the most important question. How should I weigh this against the position of the representatives of the broadcasters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u85	They may submit an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u86	That counts in the same way, but depending on the quality, you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u87	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u88	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u89	Then I go on to transparency. During the examination of the Law of 16 March, there was a discussion on the interpretation of a number of articles of law and on transparency. I think Mrs. Sent and I agreed that there's a deal. I also made it with the House of Representatives on the basis of a motion tabled there, in which it was stated that accountability at the level of the genres is the standard level. The discussion was about what should happen if a Member of Parliament says to me in response to questions that it wants to know more about what happened around this or that. For example, we have had a discussion about the creation of a king's song and about the costs incurred in concluding contracts with the honorary division. Those were questions from parliamentarians, after which, often after a lot of strings attached, the NPO crossed the bridge. I said at the time that I wanted to make good agreements on this. Mrs. Sent was cheering me then. She challenged me by asking if I had the authority to do so. She didn't think so. I thought so. Then we made the deal here to have it checked by someone who knows it: one professor. No, Mrs. Sent is right: some professors. I have overlooked that, but I think that is very easy to fix. There's gonna be some advice later. How's that going in scientific circles? To check whether it is a good advice, you do peer review: you have it evaluated by a number of colleagues who comment on it. I'll do the same with this. The results can be seen by the Chamber. I'm coming to the regions. This issue does not really concern the content of the legislative proposal, but it is very important, because it played a major role in the previous legal process and because there have been some developments in this area recently. I understand very well that the Chamber has questions about that. Recently, at the beginning of September, I sent a letter stating that I am keeping the bill, which I had foreseen I could now send to the House of Representatives, for the time being. Many parties, including the regional broadcasters themselves, the people at my ministry and many advisors we have involved in the development of plans, have invested time and energy in the elaboration of the plan of the ROOS Foundation (Regional Broadcasting Consultation and Cooperation). That plan was sent a year and a half ago; or is it two years ago already? I'm gonna take a look at my officials. It was April 2015. Thirteen broadcasters had drawn up a plan with which they thought they could cooperate wisely to ensure that the cuts could be completed as effectively as possible, with measures that would not affect the programmes and the editorial staff. I had indicated that I would like to participate in such a plan and that I would like to facilitate it if it were to come. I thought it was a very ambitious plan; the thirteen broadcasters really stuck their necks with it. The commitment to the plan has also been very large for a long time. Of course, there was discussion and concerns at editorial boards and works councils. That's not crazy when there's major reorganisations coming up. I have long had the impression that the directors of the thirteen individual organisations supported these plans. So I am very upset that, when the bill was finally there, around the summer, with the opinion of the Council of State, the support for the bill suddenly began to crumble. There was a division within the regional broadcasters and the provinces as to whether a final next step should be taken. I also hate it because I don't think anyone will get better if this bill doesn't go through. I still believe that, but at the same time I do not think it is appropriate to push through such a far-reaching operation and reform from above without sufficient support from the organisations that are required to implement it. In other words, we must do this if the thirteen broadcasters, or at least a majority of them, are ready to take the next step. I will, of course, remain in talks with the broadcasters, including the legislative proposal that is before us. Maybe it can be adjusted a little bit and some ambiguity can be removed. In response to Mr Schnabel's speech, I am going to go into a little more detail about the steps that I intend to take. It is still my intention to accommodate the original ROOS plan as much as possible. In my view, an impact has been chosen that is closest to the ROOS plan and the regional broadcasters: there must be one effective regional public service broadcasting with independent editors in each province. Mr Schnabel asked why it went wrong and then there was a discussion about it. At an early stage, the day-to-day administration of ROOS discussed the legal impact. It's not like my officials locked themselves in an ivory tower, started writing to a law and presented the results in the summer. It has been discussed continuously with the drivers of ROOS, with the delegation of the regional broadcasters. It goes one step at a time. In addition, you run into bottlenecks. You're gonna try to fix it. The final situation has always been clearly set out: one regional public service broadcaster with thirteen regional editors and broadcasters for the production of programmes that best represent and interpret the couleur locale. I have been clear about this, including in Chambers: as of 1 January 2017, the situation would end that there would be thirteen independent regional broadcasters with their own designation. In essence, that is what the ROOS Foundation had written down in its plan. In this legal context, we ran into the fact that there were two wishes on the table which were incompatible with the legal effect. On the one hand, there was a desire that the thirteen regional broadcasters should be designated as a regional public media institution (rmi); on the other hand, there was a desire that there should not be a separate administration, as in the case of the NPO, but that there should be a collegial administration composed of directors of the regional broadcasters themselves, a kind of intersection. Legally, that wasn't possible. Then we looked to see if we could solve the material: can we physically ensure that regional editorial autonomy is properly achieved? We have found a solution for this, which has also been developed materially. However, it was found that there was too much opposition from some of the regional broadcasters. A number of broadcasters thought it was well worked out, could go along with it and felt that the effect was what they had once meant by the plan, but for a number of broadcasters it came too early; they were not convinced of it or not. Has all the work been for nothing? Have we rushed for nothing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u90	Do I understand that the process is stagnating because for formal legal reasons no form can be found to combine two wishes? Is this about the desire to be a rmi versus creating a clear direction? Is that the jumping point? This must be resolved, I would think as a legal body, which has done something about institutional law. I can't imagine that's the jumping point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u91	I couldn't imagine that either. That is why we have materially shaped the plan that was there. In such a bill you describe the material to which the editorial independence of such a regional broadcaster in the province must comply. It's not called rmi and it's also something other than actual rmi status, but de facto it's the same thing. However, this has been the subject of discussion. I thought it was a decent solution, in line with the spirit of the original plans, but a number of broadcasters attach great importance to such a formal status. That could not be combined with the desire to allow those same directors to sit again at the summit of that RPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u92	The Secretary of State talks a bit about this as if he were one of the advisors he himself hired. This raises the question of his own role in ensuring that things come together when it really is just a formal issue. What significant steps can he take to ensure that we can overcome this formal bump? I'd be so sorry if an in itself good intention died because we couldn't get out on paper. That is almost unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u93	That's what I've been doing for a very large part of my summer. I believed in the bill that was there. I have had extensive discussions with the day-to-day management of ROOS, i.e. a number of broadcasting directors, an independent chairman and its director. I have also had discussions with the joint works councils and with the joint editorial boards to tell them exactly. I have been very transparent about what choices we had made and why I thought it was a good legal structure. That is why it is frustrating that eight broadcasters suddenly said: we are not ready to jump over the ditch. I think that is also unwise, because there was a plan, an ambitious and well-thought-out plan behind it. If there comes a time when you say "this may not have worked out 100% according to the way we all thought of it a year ago, but 95% and the other 5% we have managed to overcome in a different way," then you are going to take a next step. But the regional broadcasters were just not ready for that. That's annoying. You can take a horse to jail, but you can't force it to drink, although I think the horse is thirsty and that it's okay if we lavate to the water that's in the bin. I just need to bring a little more conviction about the stage and maybe talk to those regional broadcasters to see how we can get out of this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u94	The metaphor is too good to let go. Was the good water really in the tank where you led the horse? Was it really about editorial independence? Was it contained in the texts before us? Were there the elements in which the broadcasters say that we can jump with the horse, if necessary? It's jumping over your own shadow, I guess, huh? But you know what I mean. Is the entrapment big enough? Can we fix that in a good way? That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u95	I understand your question very well. I'd rather put it all on the table here and show you how we'd all sort of solved it, but then I'd have to file the bill. I think that's premature. However, I would like to make a number of attempts to see whether I can agree with the regional broadcasters themselves. Maybe it still needs some adjustment and it can be adjusted a little bit. This discussion arose in July, when some regional broadcasters were wondering whether these two wishes were really incompatible. So that was "challenged." Then I said: let us seek expert legal advice on this, then we ask a legal third party to give a ruling on this. This has become a good advice in which it is explained that the rmi status could be combined with the zbo status.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u96	I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to his letter to the House of Representatives of 7 September last year. On page 6 he writes that regional editors will legally be classified as regional public media institutions. Do I understand correctly that the actual legal text differs from what was written in this letter? If so, I understand the regional broadcasters a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u97	This is at the heart of the discussion. That letter contained two important wishes. The first was to have a board that wouldn't make decisions from above in Hilversum, The Hague or Eindhoven for the entire regional public service broadcasting, so about the model for which they chose in Hilversum. No, the directors wanted to be forward posts themselves. They wanted a so-called collegial government. We wanted to combine that with a status. In the letter we assumed that this could still be done with at least a status guaranteeing the editorial independence of those regional broadcasters in the province. Legally, those two just didn't match. Then you go back to the question of what you actually meant by it and whether you can achieve the same thing, but in a different way. In my view, that can be done, but it is not exactly as we had it in mind at the time and informed the House of Representatives. It happens all the time that you run into things when you start writing a law. Then you get a moving insight and you say: this is not quite right, let's just take another path to get to the same goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u98	I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if we understand correctly. I'm really trying to understand what happened. The idea was that, as weird as it sounds, there would be one national regional broadcaster, the RPO? In fact, that would be the employer of regional editors in 12, 13 places in the Netherlands that would, as it were, provide news, entertainment or whatever. I thought they were supposed to be in the service of that national foundation. Now the regional broadcasters are saying that they really want to remain an employer? The law complicates it, I must say, because the law of course refers to joint works councils. That suggests that they are their own legal entities. That is not necessarily necessary, but the suggestion is very clear. My question is about this complexity. It's more than just a loss of status, isn't it? It's really a whole different construction if you're separate foundations that are gonna work together, isn't it? We now know that the practicalisation of this cooperation is also subject to VAT, so in fact it goes right through the austerity line. It costs money. A provision will therefore have to be made for this. You're in a really weird situation right now, because you already have an RPO with a board of directors and a supervisory board, but they can't do anything because the parties that have to make it possible aren't willing to hand over their position to that RPO. This afternoon I asked the Secretary of State if he would come up with a new law to rewrite the story about the RPO or if he would stick to what is now in the law. Are we going to a national RPO, which has regular local or regional editors and no longer own foundations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u99	I will tell you about the tasks and powers of the RPO later, but let me start by removing two misunderstandings. It's not like the RPO can't do anything. Nor is it the case that regional broadcasters who want to work together run into a VAT problem, even though they did put it in their letter last week. In the current situation, I do see opportunities for cooperation without the second-stage legislative proposal and without running into taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u100	You know how independent the IRS is, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u101	But we have already had first tests done, so they are in that sense proven concepts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u102	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u103	Mr Schnabel started with the question of whether it was not intended to move towards one organization, so to speak one employer with independent editorial staff at the level of the provinces. The answer to that was and is yes. The proposal that we had around this summer was also based on this. It was a bit different from the letter to which Mrs Sent referred, but this was the model. This was also the model that Stichting ROOS had calculated. The point was that within a regional public service broadcaster you would do together what you could do together and at the same time make sure that the journalistic and editorial choices were not made somewhere at a central point in the country, but just in the provinces themselves. In my view, the eight broadcasters who ultimately said they were not ready to take that step attach very much to their organisational autonomy, so to speak. They just wanted to stay their own organizations. In my view, that is different from what ROOS himself proposed a year and a half ago. This is exactly where the tension is. Did we put so much pressure on the bill in the spring for nothing? A number of Members suggested that this was the case, but the answer to that question is quite simply no. Immediately after the adoption of the legislative proposal, we brought into force the section on regional broadcasting. We also immediately completed the whole process of appointing the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board then appointed a quarter of an hour maker, who had the task of taking a number of follow-up steps. This makes the situation for the RPO comparable to the situation for national broadcasting. Indeed, there is an RPO with legal tasks, such as the preparation of a common concession policy plan, a multiannual budget and a performance agreement. As the NPO is the overarching coordination centre with its binding powers, the RPO is the regional broadcaster. Then what are the tasks? This is reflected in Article 2.60a (3) of the Media Act. This concerns the promotion of cooperation and coordination, the promotion of matters of common interest for the regional public media service and the regional public media institutions, the conclusion of collective agreements and I would like briefly to mention the promotion of an efficient use of funds, the establishment, maintenance, management and operation of bodies, services and facilities and the preparation of a concession policy plan and joint budgets. The performance agreement that we ultimately make with the same RPO allows further agreement on the enforceability of these tasks and powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u104	That's exactly what my question was about. What can the RPO do in relation to effectively independent foundations, which themselves have an employer's role and have a budget? Then how can the RPO send for that? Isn't that what he's got control of? What does that look like? I understand that the Secretary of State describes the intention of the RPO, but what can really be done? To what extent does this bind the other organisations? After all, that's not in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u105	Part of this was provided for in the second stage of the law. That would go far beyond the powers that the NPO has in this area in Hilversum. It would mean that all 13 independent units would be abolished and that the thirteen organisations would be hung in the RPO. For this purpose, the editorial units would be legally secured at county level. So we will have to do this differently. In any case, we can do this for the time being by making agreements with the RPO in a performance agreement and by giving the RPO a number of tasks and resources. This can be done, for example, through the penalty clause on non-compliance with certain obligations. These are all questions of impact on the basis of the current legal framework. We have to sit around the table about that. In the slightly longer term, the question is how this total is sequestered. I still hope that the legislative proposal, perhaps in a slightly modified form, can continue. It was apprehended, but it wasn't revoked. I believe in the original plans of ROOS, but we will have to discuss some things. Maybe there's another way to do it. If it is more fundamental, the whole process of law must be re-entered. So there are different options.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u106	I would ask everyone to make only brief interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u107	A number of provinces have now also been involved in the discussion. Not only the broadcasters are involved, but also the provincial authorities. I thought I saw a letter from deputy Swinkels from Brabant coming by last week. He wrote: no cuts without a future perspective. There have been more sounds to us. How do you actually organize it? It is not just a matter of making agreements with regional broadcasting; it is now also a question of provincial politics. I would start from zero before threatening fines and know what kind of structures. It seems to me that the broadcasters should be able to continue broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u108	As far as I'm concerned, they're gonna keep broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u109	I still don't quite understand how the Secretary of State imagines this. Mr Schnabel's question was: what possibility does the RPO have in relation to the currently independent regional broadcasters? You can make agreements with these and others, but if the independent broadcasters refuse to commit themselves to agreements, what possibilities are there for imposing fines? I don't quite understand that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u110	The RPO must make a concession policy plan. That is the legal task we gave the RPO together in the spring. The concession policy plan also includes performance agreements, as we do with the NPO. I'm sure it's still looking, because it's the first time we've gone into a process like this. If this is not achieved, a sanction can eventually be imposed. I hope it doesn't come to that, but it can. This requires the individual broadcasters to make agreements with the RPO. After all, you want to avoid sanctions. If fines are imposed, then it goes away from the total budget. By the way, we were just talking about the fact that this rarely happens at least in the case of the NPO, as there is a common interest in preventing fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u111	Exactly. It therefore has an indirect impact on the regional broadcasters themselves. So the RPO can be fined and punished?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u112	It's the total, and the RPO stands for the total.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u113	But every broadcaster has submitted its own budget. Funds shall be allocated to each broadcaster. How much does it cost them? In any case, I see very serious difficulties on this point, and I do not immediately see that regional broadcasters can be forced to give up their independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u114	Part of it concerns the effects. I would like to sit down with the thirteen broadcasters, ROOS and the RPO, who are now an agency, but the frameworks must be clear in my view. That is why I also object, for example, to the position that the IPO is now in. The IPO says that if the law doesn't go through, the legal basis for the cuts will fall away. But that is not the case. The legal cuts were also accepted in this Chamber more than two years ago. After all, the bill for this purpose was adopted. Secondly, the cuts have simply been incorporated into the budget, which is also laid down by law. My position towards regional broadcasters has always been that I would like to facilitate them with a plan that allows them to implement the cuts as wisely as possible. That's why I was so happy that they came up with a plan and with a financial pass-through of that plan that proved it possible. That is precisely why I continue to call for cooperation. Work together, because only if you work together can you achieve savings that can ultimately make sure that there is no need to cut down on the editors. I come to the main point. It is so important to continue to call on regional broadcasters to work together. The cuts are fixed. I have already indicated that in the course of the intervention and the reforms needed to achieve the cuts, the regional broadcasters themselves are in a position to do so. But if they incur costs for cooperation and for making cuts, then there are obviously friction costs. There is a friction cost regulation for the regular costs, but as far as I am concerned there is also a generous friction cost regulation for additional costs associated with the RPO and the delay in setting up the RPO. However, it has been very clearly stated that it must involve additional friction costs, not a softening of the austerity or regular funds for exploitation. These costs are related to the cooperation plans under the RPO umbrella. As far as I am concerned, this need for cooperation cannot be stressed enough. This is quite apart from the fact that this is also necessary in substance, because we see that the market shares of radio and television, as well as advertising revenue, are under pressure. By working together you can make more of a fist there. I realise that the changes have not become easier since they are not supported by legislation. At the same time, there are a lot of plans prepared by the regional broadcasters themselves, which, in my view, can still take place. For example, there are plans for a joint staff, finance and sales department which, I have been told, have been approved by all regional broadcasters. According to the calculations made by the regional broadcasters, this will save between 3 and 3.7 million. There are also other plans that can be implemented independently of legislation, such as increased cooperation on content, joint music editors, above-regional news and sports productions. These are all plans of the broadcasters themselves, even when it comes to matters such as joint design or the doubling of studios. According to the regional broadcasters' own calculations, this amounts to 3 to 5 million. This will enable the necessary savings to be achieved in the short term. If we use the extra friction costs of 8.5 million................................................................................................ Some members asked: can they really do this or run into a VAT problem? ROOS wrote that herself in her letter. There would be a VAT problem because in the new form, i.e. without a legal framework, regional broadcasters cannot be regarded as a tax entity. I disagree. There are indeed forms of cooperation that can be used to prevent this VAT problem. I'd like to help ROOS and the broadcasters to work this out and figure it out. What does that look like? Roughly, I see two variants in which regional broadcasters can work together without VAT problems. For example, calls can start to provide support services to each other and on that basis form a tax unit, so that they do not have to charge VAT to each other. This means that one broadcaster is responsible for P&O and the other, for example, for finance and control. This gives you cross-links that create a fiscal unit. Another way to settle this is that the RPO will organise services and then not, without payment and therefore without VAT, will deliver them to the broadcaster. There is also a legal title for this. You then have to agree on a slightly different distribution of resources, namely that a little more resources that would otherwise go to the region now go to the RPO as a national unit. This way, you can work together without additional VAT costs, without additional tax costs. I am very much in favour of this cooperation and I would like to make an agreement on it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u115	In general, my party is not very much in favour of tax dealing. In this case, we should have a little more certainty as to whether these VAT structures are going to work. Our information is that as fiscalists, they'll say there's a few hooks and eyes on it. They don't know for sure if such a construction remains with the tax authorities' colleagues. Can the Secretary of State offer a little more certainty about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u116	We have taken a first test and our advisers say that this can be done. In the end, it depends very much on the effect. However, I would like to make that invitation to ROOS and I did so after that letter. I immediately called the President of ROOS and indicated that there are solutions to what they say in that letter. So let's have a sit-down on that! The reality is that a debate such as today, but also the debate about the media budget in the Lower House, is being used by the provinces and regional broadcasters to see if the political temptation can be reversed. This is supported by arguments such as: now that the law is not there, there is no legal basis for the austerity. That's not true, but that's what the provinces say. I can see that in ROOS, too. They also prefer to see the cuts reversed. If I were the director of a regional network, I'd be lobbying in the Chamber for that, too. However, we believe that it is possible and that it is necessary to establish this cooperation. This also applies to the elaboration of the friction cost regulation. Some of the Members have suggested that I should also like to read that in the letter from ROOS to transfer that 8,5 million pounds to the individual broadcasters. I would find that highly unwise, apart from the fact that I do not think this is possible. At the time, we stated in the letter that it had to be additional friction costs, because the coverage of this 8.5 million comes from the general media reserve. The Media Act describes very precisely what this general media reserve may be used for. Article 2.166 (1) (b) of the Media Act states that the media reserve can be used for contributions to the reorganisation costs resulting from government decisions, and thus not for the reversal of budget cuts or regular programme costs. It must always be related to a reorganisation. I would also find it undesirable, because if we were to do so, any incentive for cooperation would be a step further for the regional broadcasters. This may be just as pleasant in the short term, but in the longer term, you will not realize the structural cuts, the structural cuts, which are necessary in order to make good the 17 million cuts in the longer term. You're gonna do that once. For the 2017 budget this may be just as pleasant, but for 2018 and 2019 the problem is still clearly in the books. I want us and the regional broadcasters to have taken measures in 2018 and 2019, so that they can avoid editing. That's exactly why I keep calling it that way. Mr Schabel thought it sounded good, but wondered what exactly I would do. What does the plan of action look like? I would like to sit down with ROOS and the regional broadcasters to see whether we can implement the plans that they themselves have designed and which are already there without the legislative proposal, i.e. on a voluntary basis and using the 8.5 million. I do so in close consultation with the RPO on what is possible from that side of the coin. ROOS and the RPO are two different organs, but the RPO can certainly play a role in this. And I would like to zoom in on the bill as it has now been kept, together with the drivers, to see if we can do an external review on parts, for example on the disputed issue of whether editorial independence is now properly regulated. In an earlier phase, such an external review on a number of legal bottlenecks has helped enormously, just by having a third or fourth party look at it. If that's what the lawyers say, I'm sure it is. Now it's my argument against ROOS' argument. By bringing in a third person who can make a statement on this, we can make a decision. I do see a number of possibilities for taking steps. Then Mr Schnabel asks: But what if you don't get out of there? I find that a very difficult if-dan question because I do not want to reach that stage at all. I want to get out of it. I think the regional broadcasters also recognise that they need to take steps and that they need to work more together to get out. Maybe they'll be lobbying this Chamber and the House of Representatives for extra money in the next month. If there are clear political decisions and the framework has been established, then I am sure that we will be back on the table the next day. If that does not ultimately lead to anything, then I come back to this Chamber with the announcement that I have tried everything, with support, and that we have looked at and exhausted all the possibilities. Perhaps then we will reach the point where we say: perhaps we should take a step now without the support of regional broadcasters. However, I know one thing for sure: if I had done so now, Mr Schnabel's first question or his colleagues on the other side would have been why I came up with a legislative proposal on a major reorganisation involving thirteen broadcasters, without support, and I have not yet done everything I can to get through all the uncertainties and questions and to secure them. I hope that we will come out in good consultation, but at some point we may reach a point where we say: now we must take responsibility for the system, because we cannot allow it to happen that, if we do not cooperate voluntarily, the cuts will sink into places where we do not want to. Both chambers will then have to make a political statement if necessary, but I will only do so if I know that there is no other way. In doing so, I have sufficiently addressed the major questions surrounding the region. A more specific question has been asked about the position of Omroep Friesland, on two levels. Mr Ten Hoeve asked about the implementation of his motion. In the law, as it stands today, without the supplementary bill, the independence and independence he wanted to secure with the motion are very well regulated, because it remains an independent organisation. I would have liked to see it different, but the motion states that the Chamber wants to secure something in the new organization, in such a way that it becomes one organisation. I promise Mr Ten Hoeve that, if I get a breakthrough on the bill with the thirteen broadcasters, if that comes back to both Chambers, in the current form or perhaps slightly modified, I will take the agreements we have made here, at least the guidance I have received in the motion, one-on-one. The other question, from Mr Atsma, concerns the agreements with the province of Friesland. He says I've been sitting around the table with the deputy to make some appointments. Friesland also makes an extra investment. It is also a question of guaranteeing the preservation of the Frisian language and the Frisian culture. I have agreed with Sietske Poepjes, the deputy there, on a text that was still very much based on the new law. The substantive deal stands, but we still have to look at the texts of the agreement, as we agreed in the draft, but that is not relevant, because there is no new law right now. However, we fully agree on the substance. I am also prepared to continue these agreements. Finally, on this point, Mr Kops asked whether there was an unexplained reason why the regional broadcasters did not want to go together. A proposal on a kind of settlement, whereby the large, rich broadcasters would pay some money for the little ones, was certainly on the table, but the distribution of the cuts was proposed by the regional broadcasters themselves. They had anticipated that, if you go towards an RPO and you want for example also in Zeeland and Drenthe, small areas with a smaller budget, keep certain basic facilities in the air, then it is necessary that something be settled. I do not have the impression that this was ultimately the reason why some broadcasters did not want to take this step. In fact, a broadcaster like Zeeland was one of the eight broadcasters that was ultimately not in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u117	I would like to believe the Secretary of State, but it has been said to me that this has helped to disband a broadcaster. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate this further? This isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u118	I find it very difficult to verify the intentions of all those parties in detail. Eventually, for me, the result counts. Do they at any time say yes or no to a set of appointments and against a law as it stands? It can be said that the point of the rmi was so fundamental and important that this was a breaking point, one can point to the agreements on the distribution of the costs that one was not entirely happy with afterwards, that would have been a stick to hit the dog with, to pull the plug out of it, but the result is ultimately the same. I just want us to get all 13 broadcasters in a row, or at least a substantial part of the thirteen, so that we can take a number of steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u119	The Secretary of State is concerned with the outcome, but that is sad at the moment. The Secretary of State also says that he hopes that the RPO will be a great success at some point. It then seems logical to me that you should look at the causes of its failure. It has come to my attention that the issue of finance, equalization, is one of the reasons. I think it would be wise for the Secretary of State to investigate the situation. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u120	I said just now, in response to Mr Schnabel, that I would very much like to get back on the table with the broadcasters. I would like to ask about that, but the reasons they put before me in the consultation are others. Then there are a number of questions which remain and which do not relate directly to the legislative proposal, but rather to the wider picture. Mr Sietsma's first question was about philosophy. He asked how he should interpret Mrs Bikker's motion at the time and the arrangements that should be made in the performance agreements. The performance agreements can only be drawn up when the new law enters into force. If we do so, it will be stated that at least the full amount of 12 million will be allocated to the programming previously provided by the 242 broadcasters and that the NPO will also free up room and budget for broad philosophical programming. If we look at the 2016 programming, you can see that there are already more philosophical programmes, compared to 242 broadcasters. Despite the fact that there are no performance agreements yet, this is already in the spirit of that motion. Mr Kops asked a number of questions about the performance agreement. He asked whether public service broadcasting is doing its job properly, how we are going to make the arrangements in it and how we are going to maintain it. He is right that a new performance agreement should be drawn up in this respect. We also looked back at the previous performance agreement. The NPO has included a comprehensive evaluation in the 2015 accountability document. I recommend that Mr Kops read it again. There have been several discussions, including with the Media Commissioner. That is all input for the new agreements that need to be made. Mr Kops also asked about the broader profile. I do not recognize myself at all in the image that Mr Kops sketches of public service broadcasting, regardless of the fact that the programme to which he refers is not broadcast on television. I do, however, recognise the almost literally taken up questions that Mr Bosma had already put to the House of Representatives. For the sake of clarity, I will refer to the answers to those written questions. However, when I turn on television, I see the sad and miserable situation in the Middle East, with all the negative aspects, on the news and current affairs programmes, with great regularity. In my view, therefore, you cannot accuse the journalists of the various broadcasters and of the NOS of one-sided reporting. What about agreements on diversity? In old performance agreements a kind of quota agreement was made on the number of women and immigrants to be on television. I myself am less in favour of this. I don't think that's terribly effective either. I think diversity is important, but I think it is better to work on it in a different way. The commitment of the conversations I am currently having with the NPO is more about whether society can reflect on the programmes and whether society is translated into them. Can the public, who are ultimately the viewers and listeners, recognize themselves in the programming of public service broadcasting? So that's a more direct angle than if you were going to count how many guests have been sitting around which table. Mr Schalk had a question about the Watchpoint. In any case, I was happy to hear that he agreed with the line. The Star has decided to join the NICAM, the institute that executes the ViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewViewView. I will inform your Chamber and Mr Schalk as soon as this has happened. Mr Sietsma asked a very relevant question. Suppose we say yes to this bill and later this autumn the large bulk that has already been adopted but has not yet entered into force will come into force. Has a stable basis been laid for the next ten years, he said, I believe even twenty years? I don't know if that's true. We have to be real. Mr Schnabel said it very well in his speech: developments in the media country are moving so fast that legislation is always a little behind schedule. However, I made a solemn promise to Mrs Bikker. I said that if we take this step, this is the framework for the 2016-2020 recognition period, which we are now in. This is the administrative setting and these are the arrangements within which this concession period works. So it has a less long horizon than Mr Sietsma asked for, but at least it gives the parties in Hilversum the right rest. They need that rest to work on a future-proof public service within the new relationships.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u121	Thank you. We now come to the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u122	Madam President. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his detailed reply. As indicated in the first term, we are talking here about the supplementary legislative proposal. When I listened to Mr Krikke's contribution, it was suggested in my opinion that we would end up dancing to the finish line. I prefer to call it a bit stubble and stumble. However, there is a finish line; that is for sure. I still think we're all gonna make it to the finish line. We'll get there, but really dancing and cheering, I don't think it is. In the reply, the Secretary of State put forward a number of points, but the CDA still has a few questions. First of all, this concerns the whole debate on transparency. In the first term, I congratulated the Secretary of State for what he has done with regard to the appointment policy and the choices and role of OCW. A question that occurred to me during the answer given by the Secretary of State was the profile of the members of the Supervisory Board. Do the broadcasters have a voice in that too? I thought I heard the Secretary of State say that this is clearly the case. If so, I am reassured on that point. I am not going to repeat the debate we have had through interruptions on the tasks and powers of the NPO in terms of programming, programmes and presenters. I'm not doing this over again because I think it's a difference of opinion and perception. Let us hope that it is only a difference of perception and not a difference of principle. I doubt that a little bit. That is why I fully support Mr Sietsma's motion in the second term. I signed that motion, too. This motion is intended in particular to clarify the roles of NPO and broadcasters, in line with the discussion we have had before. I also have a supplementary question about the programmes that can be put by the broadcasters. If the NPO says no to an offer from a broadcaster, can an appeal be made? I should have asked that question in the first period. I put it once in March, too, and I repeat it now. The appeal procedure is not entirely clear to me. The Secretary of State has once again argued that he likes short, compact, fast procedures. We need to get through this. He doesn't like bureaucracy. That's what I'm talking about. That's why he made the comment about the co-ordination rules. As far as he was concerned, the broadcasters did not have to play a role in this. We think it would be wise to involve broadcasters in this. I am not so afraid of bureaucracy on that point. However, I am afraid of bureaucracy at the fully debated, wide-ranging social advisory council. We have not yet been clear on how things are going to be installed and how people are being sought. The relationship between the Advisory Council on the one hand and the broadcasters on the other has been raised here on several occasions. I would like to add that I also find it illogical that these more than 3.5 million members would not reflect Dutch society sufficiently. It would actually be the same if the Secretary of State would say to the House of Representatives: the government feels that there is insufficient reflection of society in the number of members of the parties, so we still come with an additional part to the House of Representatives. I do not want the broadcasters to be able to live up to what is now almost used as a reproach. Finally, I come to the regional broadcasters. The Secretary of State concluded about with the following remark. If he had now come up with the supplementary bill on regional broadcasting, we would have asked how he could do that, because it would not have been worn in the region. I think I recall that at least six broadcasters were brought forward by us during the March debate, which were not in line with the model presented. At that time, I suggested, among other things, that we consider whether perhaps we could leave the cooperation intact by giving the provinces their own concessional powers. Maybe that's an opportunity to get out. Regional broadcasters are particularly concerned about their independence. The Secretary of State has mentioned examples of cooperation in a number of areas in order to achieve austerity. Of course, cuts appeal to us too, and if there is room for them, you should also use them. However, broadcasters should not...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u123	Do you think about the time you've given us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u124	I'm working on my last sentence, Madam President. However, those broadcasters who are doing their utmost to keep things going, who have already announced or implemented redundancies and who are already in financial difficulties, should not come up with any more, because the Secretary of State is threatening to impose sanctions and fines here tonight. Let's stop that, please. Moreover, this is separate from the legal functions of the regional broadcasters, even if only because of the fact that they are the disaster transmitters. So we're gonna have to keep them on their feet one way or the other. I have also read in the recent election programme of the VVD, if I may be so bold as to link the Secretary of State to it. That reassures me. What does not reassure me, however, are the other plans in that programme. Anyway, the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u125	That's not what this is about, and you're three minutes past your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u126	The Secretary of State also said that there is nothing going on until 2020 and there is peace at the front. At least let's stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u127	I would ask everyone to stick to the time, because if everyone speaks twice as long as the given time, it will be 24:00 this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u128	Mr. Chairman. I won't speak for more than two minutes. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I told you, the law also has good elements. This is how the appointment has improved. However, the law also has bad elements, because I believe that the Advisory Council can count on many problems. The answer of the Secretary of State to the question of the influence of the NPO on the content of the programmes is, in my view, clear, namely: it is there. As the Secretary of State himself says, there is no other way to do with this bill. It is not just that it cannot be otherwise, but in my opinion it is also the case that the Secretary of State does not want it to be any different. In this way, my group believes that journalistic freedom is by definition at risk, and I will therefore advise my group to vote against the improvement of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u129	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. He said that the NPO itself does not make programs, but the NPO does have an impact on its content. Programmes may be reviewed by the NPO in accordance with Article 2.52. It will then be examined whether it is all within the framework of the law and whether it is in line with the performance agreement. That is why I think it is certainly worth paying attention to the performance agreement. It hasn't been established yet. It will only come into force and will come into force after the adoption of the legislative proposal, but we will of course have nothing to say about it. The Secretary of State said I was talking about a program in my first term. However, I was not talking about a programme, but about a theme for the new television season. That theme comes from the NPO. The NPO therefore has an impact on the content of programmes. The theme is to remove the fear of the Arab world. Can the Secretary of State indicate that this will not be included in the performance agreement, so that proposals for programmes cannot be rejected because they do not comply with them? Finally, I will deal with quotas. The Secretary of State says he doesn't care about quotas for immigrants and women. No, but they're in the performance agreement. If the Secretary of State has a problem with that, he's the one in the position to do something about it. That agreement has not yet been reached, so my question is whether he is going to do anything about it. I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u130	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has not answered some of my group's questions. I am referring, for example, to the following question. The NPO does not produce programs, no media offerings, but does appoint creative teams that can produce multi-annually high-quality dramas. How does that relate? Nor have I had an answer to my question about the Advisory Council. What practical effect could, for example, the contribution of non-Western immigrants in the eyes of the Secretary of State? Maybe the questions are too tricky. I would also be pleased if they could be answered in writing at a later stage. What has touched me is the way the Secretary of State deals with regional broadcasting. He keeps technical and, above all, cold stories in this context, while it is clear that the quality of programming is falling. The carousel broadcasts are increased. The programmes themselves are getting shorter and there are likely to be redundancies on 1 January. The Secretary of State didn't mention that. I think that's very cold and technical. Mr Atsma says that he has looked at the VVD's election programme and that that promises a lot of good. I must remind Mr Atsma that the VVD has promised more good things and that he should look back to see what has become of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u131	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Unfortunately, the Party for Animals is not reassured. The steering role of the NPO is too broad and restricts the autonomy of broadcasters. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De NPO kan volgens de staatssecretaris zelfs het profiel van de presentator af- of goedkeuren.]] This is threatening to go the wrong way. The NPO has control over the programme framework, the concession policy plan, performance agreements and so on. The NPO shall determine at what point on the channels and at what time broadcasters are allowed to broadcast within what profile. If the NPO is not satisfied, the broadcasting service will be out of broadcasting time and out of money. A few additions to Article 2.88 in the law cannot prevent this. How can the Secretary of State guarantee that broadcasters will not be placed under direct curatel of the NPO? Because that's basically what it's all about. The same is threatening to happen at the RPO. Why do regional broadcasters attach importance to the status of regional media institution previously promised to them by the State Secretary? They want to remain their own employer to ensure editorial independence. With a fall back to foundations under a steering RPO, that independence is on the way. I have not heard any concrete proposals from the Secretary of State to secure this independence. The Secretary of State speaks many reassuring words. However, they do not reassure, but they disappoint. They break down a wonderful system of independent broadcasters where the creators have an important influence. We deeply regret this and therefore strongly support Mr Sietsma's motion as co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u132	Mr. Chairman. From this point on, I can once again congratulate Mr Sietsma on his eloquent maiden speech. I really enjoyed it. Thanks for letting us go through that this way. I have little more to say about the additions to the Media Act. We welcome the answers of the Secretary of State and the way in which the appointments have been arranged. Furthermore, we are pleased with the Advisory Council, because we really think that the view in Hilversum should be far more outward-looking, including at order level. The role of the NPO should be to establish and improve contacts with various target groups in society. Now I come to the coordination rules and the way in which broadcasters and the NPO are going to further implement that regulation. I really think the ball should be in Hilversum for that and that Hilversum should be picking up that ball right now. Then I'll get to the RPO. It threatened to become a bit of a policy debate in the First Chamber, whereas something like that actually belongs in the Second Chamber, especially since there is not now any piece or bill that we can talk about from our part. I do not want to go into too much detail. I do express my concerns about the process of cooperation. I would like to see on paper how the VAT system can be put in place. Can the Secretary of State take care of that? We will then be a little reassured because at least there is no leak in the finances. We would also like to hear a little more about the actual use of the 8.5 million friction costs in the coming period. I will give my group a positive opinion on the law as such. I would like to hear the answer from the Secretary of State to the points I have just raised. In any case, I have made up for the time this morning by percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u133	Well, not quite, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u134	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate Senator Sietsma on his beautiful maiden speech. I'm glad it came of it. In parallel, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Bikker on the birth of her son David. We would like to thank the Secretary of State for his answers to our questions in the first term. The draft law before us has a long history, and we will continue to be concerned with the subject as a witness to the answers of the Secretary of State. For example, we look forward to the serious exploration of the transparency and independence of appointments in the public media in general. Similarly, we look forward to the legal clarity regarding transparency of programming costs supported by several experts. Finally, we very much hope that we will be able to deal with the proposal on the modernisation of regional broadcasting in the short term. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the exact wording of the T02220 commitment, in which he indicates that he will at least compensate for the effect of six months of delay, namely 8.5 million. Should further unforeseen circumstances arise, the State Secretary shall consult on its compensation. In this I do not read the condition that cooperation must be achieved. I still find it very worrying that written statements by the Secretary of State from his letter of 7 September 2015 to the House of Representatives were ultimately not legally enforceable. I would like to add my voice to the questions put by Mr Lintmeijer. I'm rounding up. In anticipation of future developments, I would now like to say that my group supports the proposal before us. The PvdA believes that the bill is a valuable, even essential, supplement to the Law making the public media service future-proof. That is why we shall vote in favour. The Sietsma motion which has yet to be tabled is superfluous and we shall therefore support it. This saves explanations of vote again in the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u135	I'm slowly so curious about the Sietsma motion. Everyone's talking about it, but we haven't heard her yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u136	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating Mr Sietsma. That tastes like more. I must say that I think he is a worthy successor to Mrs Bikker. He's as adequate and direct as she is. That's nice. I look forward to the future cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u137	It's pretty short-lived. You understand that, Mr Schalk. Mrs. Bikker's coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u138	I know. But that is precisely why it is so nice that there is a successor who is doing just as well as Mrs Bikker. I thank the Secretary of State for the answer. I'm gonna go over a few points. As regards the appointments within the NPO, the first test has been passed. The government is remote. There's marginal scrutiny. The Secretary of State has clearly indicated that at an impasse there is a route to find solutions. As regards the representativeness of the Advisory Council, the Secretary of State indicated that the criteria currently mentioned are not exhaustive. So philosophy can also be a criterion. With regard to the NPO's programming frameworks, the subjects mentioned are quite exhaustive. In concrete terms, the board of directors can draw on this series, appropriate to the present case. That's how I understood it. So it's not an open-choice menu, but it can be chosen explicitly from these listed positions. The downside of the position of the NPO is that of the broadcasters. The autonomy of broadcasters is of lasting importance in this respect. It is not a question of measuring satisfaction in the future, but an evaluation based on concrete cases can help us to see if what the Secretary of State intended is actually happening. We shall therefore support Mr Sietsma's motion. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the last point, the last dot that is still placed at the Viewing Point. On the basis of what has been discussed today, I am going to propose to my group that we vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u139	Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I have already made it clear that my group is extremely satisfied with the way in which governance is regulated in the additions to the Media Act. We've made arrangements with the Secretary of State in this Chamber. Those agreements were almost made point by point. It was almost touching to see how the Secretary of State also defended the Advisory Council here. That was one of the points raised here. This was an important fact to ensure that the role of the general public and the presentation of Dutch society is reflected in it. I am sorry to say that I cannot support the Sietsma motion which is still secret to the chairman. At least I will advise my group not to do so. I am doing this because this motion will be made available to the broadcasters, in particular to Article 2.88 of the Media Act. I would like to make it clear once again what I said in my contribution: it is so important that there is room for new production houses and new suppliers. The future of broadcasters depends on that. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for all the discussion we have had on the RPO here, although it was not really a technical issue. I continue to find it a problem that has to do with that horrible word 'transparency' that the Secretary of State also tends to talk about cooperation all the time, while of course it is actually about a forced merger of the organizations. Of course, that hurts a lot, because they wouldn't do that on their own. Because of the circumstances they are forced to do so. The Secretary of State is offering a mould in which they must find themselves. That's a real procrustes bed. You feel and feel that, too. Let's be honest about it. Cutbacks have to be realized. The broadcasters aren't always doing well. We need to do something about that. In that sense, I hope that it will indeed succeed in making the procrustes bed fit nicely in cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u140	Mr. Chairman. I too should like to begin by congratulating Mr Sietsma. I, like all of us, have listened to him with great pleasure. I thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive reply. I said what I wanted to say about the proposal before us. As a result of the discussion here, it is very difficult to define precisely the separation between the NPO and the broadcasters in texts in such a way that they can be interpreted in the same way by everyone. Actually, we did. The reality is, of course, that there will be a bit of a grey area between the programming powers of the NPO and the independence of broadcasters. My idea is that it should be dealt with fairly by the people concerned. For the time being, I am prepared to express the confidence that they will. If that is not the case, then I assume that we are getting signals from it and that something can happen about it, but rather that does not have to be done as far as I am concerned. I come to the situation of regional broadcasters. The Secretary of State always talks about this as if at the beginning there was complete agreement between all regional broadcasters in order to arrive at the planned cooperation and the Secretary of State, on the basis of this, enthusiastically started preparing a legislative proposal. I fear that the reality from the outset has actually been that for a lot of these broadcasters the desire to remain independent was primary, but the need for austerity did so for them to take action. If that's the beginning, then it's not so strange that if there's a kink in the cable, the first option is to stay independent. This does not alter the fact that cooperation is useful and necessary, because we need to cough up this austerity. It is settled, and I can imagine that no one expects it to be withdrawn. That's the reality you have to work with. I can also imagine, however, that some of the broadcasters have come to the conclusion that they would rather make cuts themselves than be forced to make certain cuts. A lot will not cause much trouble, but the Secretary of State mentioned, for example, the "double-up" of studios. Then I'm thinking, what are we talking about? Of course, this can generate a lot of money, but if that means that regional broadcasters have to start using studios together, I can imagine that a lot of them think: then we prefer to deal with the cuts ourselves, because we do not want to go along with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u141	Are you thinking about your time, Mr Ten Hoeve?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u142	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. I can therefore very well imagine that, under the circumstances, broadcasters will come to the conclusion that they prefer to continue on their own, to take the austerity for granted and to save it. This does not mean that the Secretary of State must not continue to try to align them and encourage them to cooperate. Of course, I have no objection to him coming up with a new bill. We all see the point of this, but I would like to make it quite clear that I am not ready to say that it may not be acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u143	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Sietsma on his maiden speech. I also congratulate Mrs Bikker on the birth of her son David. I hope this new citizen of the world is going to have a happy life. I thank the Secretary of State for all his answers. It may seem like a surprise, but the VVD is going to support the present bill. I hear the relief in the Chamber, but that is really going to happen! My group has only been a little surprised that we have talked so extensively about the issues that are at stake. The RPO is not on the agenda and there are not many pieces for it either. Actually, this is a policy debate. That should be in the Lower House, I'd say. I'm coming to the motion. I congratulated Mr Sietsma on his maiden speech and we have had some discussions around it, but we are not going to support the motion. My group is also a little surprised that the Christian Union is now putting this motion on the table in this way. This has already been discussed in the debates, including with Mrs Bikker, and agreements have been made. The motion looks very much at the autonomy of the broadcasters, while in this debate we end up...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u144	The motion is not yet part of the debate, Mrs Krikke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u145	Anyone was allowed to say something about it just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u146	That was only very short. You're getting into it too much right now. Be careful with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u147	Okay. The motion deals very much with the autonomy of broadcasters, while the law really does have a different approach. We believe that this motion really goes against what was on the table. That is why my group will not support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u148	The motion has gradually become some sort of mystery guest in this Chamber, but I can assume it will now be revealed. Everyone's talking about the Sietsma motion. Mr Sietsma, I give you the floor!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u149	Madam President. I've only been here four months. I do appreciate the fact that non-existent motions are also being discussed from my hand, because, as you can understand, I have little time. I appreciate the way it is going, but I will be happy to read the motion and submit it later. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his clear answer. I do not know if it is lawful to say this, but it is a pleasure to listen to you, Mr Dekker. You're clear, clear and to the point. We support a lot of things, too. We do not support everything, and I shall explain this briefly, but in general it was a good answer. Thank you very much for that. I still have a few concrete things to say. My first point concerns those incompatibilitys. Article 2.6 (f) states that you may not become a member of the Supervisory Board of the NPO if you work at a service under the responsibility of the Minister. That is an interesting point. Are the Zbos under the responsibility of the Minister? In a way, yes, in a way, it isn't. I do not need to discuss this here, but would it not be good if those involved in public institutions in the form of a Zbo Zbo's were not departmental services, but self-employed administrative bodies were excluded from the supervisory board as much as people working in a government body, in view of journalistic independence? I don't need a comprehensive paper right now. The Secretary of State understands that, but I think this is a failure in the law. If it isn't, maybe that's a reason for further discussion about this. The position of zbos in our country is interesting, fascinating and often very unclear. My second question concerns that big point of the NPO and the broadcasters. In addition, my motion is also discussed. I heard what the Secretary of State said. My group believes that the law, in the way in which the Secretary of State is now operating, offers opportunities for a policy as we would like it to be. However, my group also sees risks. That's how it's gonna be with everyone around here. We would like to make the most of these opportunities and ensure that this law works properly, taking into account pluralism. Moreover, I have been somewhat surprised by the fact that the Secretary of State, with his liberal background, has so strongly pushed through this stately influence in society. If groups in society show their own initiative and social strength, take it and embrace it! Give that all the room! Help that a little bit! But the movement of this law is right that we must be careful that the opposite does not happen. For this reason, I have a motion which does not seek to do anything other than what is laid down in the law. Maybe I can read that motion now and then give it to you. Oh, you're going to read the motion! That's my inexperience. Thank you. The President shall: Mr Sietsma, Mr Atsma, Mr Gerkens, Mr Schalk, Mr Nagel and Mr Teunissen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Article 2.88 of the Media Act holds broadcasters responsible for the form and content of their media offerings;]] [[noting that the current amendment to the Media Act does not provide additional guarantees for this autonomy;]] [[Whereas broadcasters should be able to fulfil that responsibility when it comes to the choice of topics, presentation formats and specific programme elements;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to ensure, in his role as supervisor, that the autonomy of the broadcasters is respected by the NPO's administration and that both chambers report annually on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34459-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u150	I repeat: this motion is not intended as an attack on the law, but as a support for a specific aspect. If I have understood the Secretary of State correctly on the basis of his speech and the documents, this motion will hopefully be able to count on his support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u151	You may interrupt now, Mrs. Krikke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u152	I hesitated because it was a maiden speech in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u153	Now it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u154	Mr Sietsma, how do you base your motion on the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u155	In many places in the bill it is argued that the autonomy of broadcasters is a great thing. This is also stated in Article 2.88 of the Media Act itself. We believe that there may be risks in this area in the coming period, despite this law. We would like the Secretary of State and his successor not to let that point of autonomy go down. We want it to come back every year. We want to keep it on the table as a central point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u156	But if it is a central point or a major point, it is something other than what you say in your motion. In it, you designate autonomy as absolute. That's where my objection lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u157	If you have any suggestion of supplementing the motion in such a way that we can get your support, a single word perhaps, I would be happy to join.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u158	I have a lot of suggestions, but that's a rewrite of the motion. We do not support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u159	Well, that's too bad. So that was the motion. I note that the Secretary of State has said within the framework of the Social Advisory Council that he sees philosophy as an aspect of pluralism. We take note of that with gratitude. We have also seen that the 12 million spent on Article 2.42 broadcasting is not an alternative to the normal programming. That amount is added to the ordinary programming. We support that, too. My final point concerns the region. I do not think the regional broadcasters are doing very well. We understand exactly what the Secretary of State is doing. We also understand that he has to collect his austerity. We should not focus the debate on this either, but we note that there is unease and discontent in the region. That's a nasty case for you, Secretary of State, and for all of us. We call on you to make a maximum investment to normalise the relationship with those broadcasters. I am not saying that you only have the key in your hands; so are the other parties. But the broadcasters as an expression of the regions that carry our society are a great asset. I wish you every success. We are going, even if the Secretary of State would advise against the motion, which I do not accept, to support the bill anyway. That might be a remarkable rookie mistake. When he sees it that way, I am happy to accept it, also on behalf of my group. But we have wanted the bill this way from the start. We just wanted to put a few accents in the hope that the Secretary of State will help us to do so for years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u160	The motion notes that the current amendment to the Media Act does not provide additional guarantees for this autonomy. But it is true that a further clarification of the status of Article 2.88 is included in the legislative proposal. That is why I do not fully understand this observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u161	We mean that the guarantees requested, for example on the right of input and advice on the co-ordination rules and on various other instruments, have been proposed by the broadcasters themselves. The Secretary of State has rejected that proposal. We could have gone against that again, but we did not, because it would become bureaucratic and unheard of. It is precisely in this area that instruments should not be used, but within the framework of the law that we must ensure that they are implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u162	This has been brought in by a number of broadcasters, not by all broadcasters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u163	But by the majority of Members, I would almost say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u164	But not by the majority of broadcasters. Further on, the motion talks about the Secretary of State in his role as supervisor. Where does the law say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u165	The NPO is accountable to only one body, namely the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u166	The Secretary of State is a system responsible, not a supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u167	If that's an amendment to the motion, I'm happy to join.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u168	That is what the whole debate was about a few months ago: the Secretary of State is no longer a supervisor. There's a distance between NPO and politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u169	I know what you mean. It is not monitoring, as it is on the broadcasters, but it is political supervision. You should not see it as supervision, mentioned in the Media Act, but as political supervision that the Secretary of State has in a large number of areas, in which he fulfils his political responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u170	That's where he's at right now. Perhaps it is a good thing that Mr Sietsma is looking at his whole motion again, because perhaps it is raging on other points as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u171	I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u172	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u173	Mr. Chairman. A number of groups have already indicated how they are going to vote. Thanks for the support. Too bad I didn't convince everyone. I congratulate Mr Atsma, thanking him for his contribution. He is one of those who has not yet said definitively whether he would advise his group to agree to the bill or not. But I particularly appreciate that he has taken a genuine look at this bill, recognizing it, and I think it is sporty of him to say that although he was against the previous bill, which finally got it, there are improvements in the supplement. I hope for a good outcome of this debate and of the internal deliberations within the CDA Group on this point. As regards transparency, Mr Atsma asked whether broadcasters had a say in the profiles for vacancies on the Supervisory Board. The answer to that is yes. The CoR is the body which, like a number of other bodies, can present an opinion on the profiles. Mr Atsma further asked me whether the NPO's no on a programme proposal from a broadcaster was ultimately open to appeal and objection. The answer is yes: all decisions will eventually be incorporated into a comprehensive decision. These are all individual decisions against which appeals and objections are open. Mr Atsma still had doubts about the social advisory board. I'll make one last attempt to remove that doubt. He mentioned the parallel with the Lower House, by indicating that it has members just like the broadcasters. If they have a constituency, you don't have to ask the question out there again. Honestly, in our big legislative proposals, we do. As a ministry, we submit such a Media Act for consultation with all kinds of stakeholders and parties outside the Lower House, which has a formal role in it, to ask if there are any comments and comments, with which we often do something. There, too, you can see that consultation at different levels and levels can work further, leading to better results. I believe that the combination of the members behind the broadcasters and an opportunity for the NPO to engage in public activity is possible; these two may not necessarily have to bite each other, but may be mutually reinforcing. Mr Kops asked about the performance agreement. I have indicated that I am not in favour of quotas, but they are now in the performance agreement. I believe that this performance agreement has been concluded by my predecessor. You make one such agreement for a total concession policy term. That's what you learn. I am very much in favour of diversity, but I question the effectiveness of quotas as an instrument for achieving diversity. I'm talking to the NPO to see if we can do that in a different, better, more effective way. Mr Kops also asked me about substantive agreements on proposals for programmes. Of course, he did so in a negative way: above all, no agreements had to be made in the performance agreement that the NPO ordered to produce the kind of substantive programmes he referred to. In any case, that is not the kind of agreement we make in the performance agreement. This is also quite fundamental, because I have a major problem when I start interfering with the content of the programmes at programme level, regardless of the core tasks of public service broadcasting as laid down in the law. We set the frameworks, which have become more stringent with this law. But within these legal frameworks, it is up to Hilversum to make choices. The performance agreements are much more focused on reach, diversity, pluralism and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u174	But diversity is content, isn't it? Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u175	For me, diversity is also the question of whether people who watch TV or listen to the radio recognize themselves in the programs that are made. I don't think that's crazy at all. If you have a public channel available for 17 million Dutch people, you must also have the ambition to achieve it as much as possible. You like to get a good opinion about the quality of the programs, you like to have a wide range and you deliver added value. You can measure all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u176	That has something to do with content. Anyway, while I'm standing here, let me ask you another question. What about the fines I asked you about? The Secretary of State hasn't gone into that yet. How often has a fine been imposed in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u177	I don't know, or at least not at this time. This has to do with the fact that the NPO has achieved almost all its goals. There was no reason to impose a fine. Mr Nagel asked about a passage that talks about creative teams that are going to make high-quality drama. I don't know that passage. I could check with the NPO. Maybe it's a somewhat unfortunate passage. I do know that sometimes the NPO takes the initiative to bring broadcasters together to bring things together. Think of summer programming, which does not run along the lines of a specific broadcaster. Think also of the initiatives of 3FM around Serious Request. Often, combinations of different broadcasters together are responsible for a larger project. The NPO has a binding role in this. Maybe this is similar; I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u178	To inform the Secretary of State correctly, I quote from the 2017 annual plan: "The NPO is going to commit creative teams that are commissioned to produce one or more high-quality drama series with a duration of several seasons." That's as ready as a whistle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u179	That is exactly the same quote that Mr Nagel gave me in the first term. That's what I knew. But if he's asking me if I'm ready to do exactly what that is, I owe him the answer. The NPO doesn't make programs. The law doesn't provide for that either. But the NPO can of course enter into the conversation to see if the total public broadcaster can lift an important genre like Dutch-language drama to a higher level or that broadcasters can work together, and therefore also create creative teams.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u180	Then it should have been written: the NPO goes in collaboration with the broadcasters... No, it says what the NPO's gonna do. If these multiple teams are going to produce multiple series over several years, that obviously depends on what is possible elsewhere. And that's not the intention, because the NPO wouldn't be about producing media offerings. The Secretary of State has always said that. So it's in conflict with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u181	I did not hear a question, but I might be able to respond to Mr Nagel's statement. I really don't think it's in conflict. I'd be happy to see what exactly is meant by that passage...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u182	Mr Nagel, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u183	If the NPO itself is going to commit creative teams and order one or more high-quality multi-season series, isn't the NPO about producing media offerings?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u184	Ordering the NPO will do it. The NPO makes time-sharing decisions and therefore indicates: I want a certain kind of program on an evening for so many weeks or so many months, can you sign in? The fact that the NPO parties are tied up isn't so crazy either. He's already connected to the broadcasting organizations anyway. With this bill, he will be able to commit parties from outside. Maybe it will create very exciting partnerships. I would very much welcome that, from the idea of more creative competition. Let young talents think about new concepts and come up with new ideas for new forms of Dutch drama. I think that's only good. I can tell you immediately that it is not the case that the NPO is going to make programs. The law doesn't provide for that either. Maybe it's just a little unlucky. I'd like to check, but I can't imagine that this is meant to be. Mr Nagel also asked about the practical effects of the statements or views given by the social advisory council, for example on diversity or non-Western immigrants. In two respects, I can imagine. Suppose the social advisory board is asked to take a look at the concession policy plan, or to look at the network profile of NPO 3, with which we try to bind young people to our programmes and where we only partially succeed. How can we do that better? An Advisory Council may make suggestions, submit views on them and give advice on them. If there's any sense in that, the board can take advantage of that. More specifically, the Social Advisory Council has the legal role to present an opinion on the profiles for vacancies in the Supervisory Board. I imagine this has a practical effect. The Supervisory Board makes a profile for a vacancy and is always looking for someone with substantive expertise, but also wants diversity in the Board of Directors. I can imagine the social advisory board making a ruling on this. He can turn in a point of view. The Supervisory Board can take advantage of this. These are the practical effects of the work of the Social Advisory Council. Mrs Teunissen asked how to prevent rolling. That's actually in the essence of the law. This bill certainly clarifies the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. Some of them will have to be further developed in the co-ordination rules. There's a design for that in the letter. Although it has not been signed by all broadcasters, in my view it does have a line of support in this Chamber. Just to clarify for a moment: the NPO finally makes a statement about a whole program idea, with all the profiles in it. So he doesn't look at a single subject, for example the presenter, the approach, the angle or the setting of a program, but he does so as a whole. The NPO weighs up the proposals he gets and says: we find this idea better worked out than the other. Of course, even after the adoption of this bill, there will be a real debate about this in the future. But there can always be formal appeal and objection by a broadcaster who feels disadvantaged and says: here the NPO is out of line. I have also seen these discussions, even very recently. I know that some MPs have still been approached by broadcasting directors. But when I see how that turned out, I think: according to the vision of the new agreements that lie ahead, the outcome is now good. Maybe it'll go wrong sometime. Then it is a good thing that there is a formal procedure for appeal and objection. As far as I am concerned, the frameworks for how things should go are clear with this law. Mr Lintmeijer asked two very specific questions, both related to the RPO and of a financial nature. One is about a tax structure, the other is about the friction cost regulation. Both must be worked out and prepared. I can promise to send them to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u185	Can the Secretary of State indicate on what time we can receive them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u186	I suspect that it will also be the subject of discussion in the House of Representatives during the budget debate. I hope to do it before then, so between now and a month. I would like to take some time, because for example, for the detailed elaboration of the friction cost regulation, I would like to sit with ROOS, so that it is not just a decree from above, but it is also said there: if it has to, this is a reasonable way to do it. I think Mrs Sent's question was more specific about that. I would like to refer to the letter I sent on the additional 8.5 million for the specific framework conditions already in place to use that money. I am not doing anything about that at the moment, but it was clearly stated at the time that it was a question of additional friction costs linked to the delay. The RPO was later furnished. It may give rise to the subsequent establishment of a number of cooperation plans. I am prepared to do something for that, but I am prepared to do so for those cooperation plans and not unbiased. Mr Schalk asked about the evaluation of concrete cases, probably cases of appeal and objection. I do not feel like doing anything about this myself, but I will make a suggestion on this later in the debate on the motion tabled by Mr Sietsma. Mr Schnabel and Mr Ten Hoeve have both reflected on the question of the merger. Mr Schnabel mentioned that it was actually a forced merger. This also sounded a bit familiar in the words of Mr Ten Hoeve. I'd like to give you a few things about this. Mr Ten Hoeve said: I understand that the Secretary of State must also collect his cuts. I don't quite agree with him on this. The cuts have already been allocated to the organisations they need to realize. In this case, these are the regional broadcasters. I want them to implement it in a sensible way. I will continue to encourage them to do so, but they are the ones who must provide for the austerity. Mr Schnabel's question whether it is a forced or voluntary merger is real but difficult to answer. Eventually, they volunteered to submit a plan, although some of it was necessary. It is perhaps a good thing to recall here that there is something else in the coalition agreement which the regional broadcasters clearly did not want. It describes the integration of regional broadcasters with the national system; not a separate RPO, but the housing of regional broadcasters within the NPO. The broadcasters then said that that is not the way they want to achieve the austerity and that they would do it themselves. Then they came up with this plan. I still think it is a good plan and I regret that it did not succeed. I have told the regional broadcasters that they can also choose eggs for their money, because there are political parties. I refer, for example, to the D66 election programme, which explicitly states that it should be considered whether they should not be included in the NPO. That's not what I'm putting my mind on right now, but sooner or later there will be a moment, perhaps at a formation, that parties will sit around the table and see how things are going. Maybe it doesn't have to come to this and we'll figure it out before then. That would be worth a very sweet thing to me. I believe that cuts should at least not be passed on to editorial staff or as little as possible. I am therefore reluctant to follow Mr Ten Hoeve's suggestion: broadcasters want to remain independent, so they may prefer to take some of the cuts for their own purposes. At what cost, I ask. At the expense of what? The director will then remain seated, just like the HR, Finance and Purchasing departments, and all that times thirteen. In the meantime, they have calculated themselves that if they merge, it can be more efficient and that the savings can be found in it. If they take it separately and it goes at the expense of journalists, I would find that very harsh.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u187	I agree with the Secretary of State that broadcasters could choose to do really stupid things and start cutting back in a way that we all would not want. In many cases, however, this will not be the case. Most broadcasters will be prepared to engage in sensible cooperation and make cuts. If they come to the conclusion on certain points that they do not want something in their situation, should we not respect it? Should we not do so when it comes to allocating the 8.5 million? If this is so important in this case, it counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u188	I do not rule out the possibility of some of the cuts being made within one's own organisation. However, I do not think this will succeed for the full 17 million. That is why the thirteen organisations put forward a joint proposal. If you go to one RPO and you don't need 13 directors anymore, it'll save you. If you don't need 13 more separate departments of HR and Finance and you focus those services, that's gonna save you. If you have one purchasing department for the technology, the cameras and the ICT departments, that's gonna save you. That goes hand in hand with redundancies, that's true, because these broadcasters are now working separately for people who do this kind of thing. If there are to be layoffs or people to be discharged, do so on those parts where the viewer and the listener suffer as little as possible. There was a fantastic plan from the 13 broadcasters. Unfortunately, I see now that some of the broadcasters say they attach importance to the independence of the organisation. That's what's making the plan shaky. I'd like to talk to them about this again. I am quite committed when it comes to cooperation and the need to do so, and not to waste unnecessary savings on editorial staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u189	Very briefly, Mr Ten Hoeve!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u190	Yes, very briefly, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State is right to say this, but it may be that, in a particular case, it is clear during the consultation that it might be wise for a broadcaster to do it differently from what the common front has decided. It doesn't have to be that everyone's involved in exactly what you do with each other. In certain cases, can't something else be better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u191	We have to sit around the table about that. If the broadcasters say that they can make 20% savings within their own organisation, I say, above all, do so. However, I suspect that there is a need for cooperation between all 13 organisations in order to get rid of the 17 million in a sensible way. It can still be done in a voluntary way, even in the meantime, with the supplementary law in my view, while we are still considering whether we can improve the law. Maybe there's another way to do it. Mr Ten Hoeve himself pointed out that the support of his group would be difficult if, after having adjusted and weighed everything, I came back with it in order to impose it without support. That's what I was expecting. I think this applies to some other groups here too. That's why I'm in it the way I'm in it. In the end, it's my business. If an organization has to cut back and there are ways to do that in a way that you can save the programs, the broadcasters don't have a good excuse not to work hard on it and go hard on it, if only for their own editors and their own people. Mr Sietsma asked a few more questions, one of which deals with incompatibility. I am very careful with this because otherwise we will be doing the debate again last time. I indicated that I would join some of them in the exploration, which is broader than for governance. There's one thing I'd like to say about it. You could choose to bring ZBOs under the heading "direct influence of," which is not the case right now. I'm not here for this, but if you do, you have to do it consistently. It has consequences for incompatibility here in the Upper House. Also here in this house are people who are directors or president of a Zbo. At least I know one. The legislator has chosen to choose a clear line. Ministries are covered by the definition, but an independent administrative body is not covered by the word "self-employed'. That's why a top official can't sit in the First Chamber and a president of a Zbo can. I think it would be a good idea to move on to the media system, despite the fact that further clarification is being taken into account. Then I come to the motion tabled by Mr Sietsma. Mr Sietsma and the Christian Union Group have been extremely constructive, so I am trying to look constructively at what is being presented, but I really have difficulty with this motion. That has to do with a few things. It is noted that this bill does not provide for additional guarantees of autonomy. I really disagree fundamentally with Mr Sietsma. The Media Act contains sufficient safeguards for the independence of broadcasters. The role of the NPO has been explicitly defined and specified in this legislative proposal. You could say that it has been contained; not that it has now been made smaller than in the previous bill, but it has been specified what it relates to. There can be no discussion about this. The NPO shall not enter into Article 2.88. Prior to the legislative proposal, the NPO has already agreed on a more detailed way of working in its own legislation. That's the first point I'm tripping over. The second point concerns the autonomy of broadcasters. In the motion autonomy is seen as something absolute. Of course, that is not the case. The autonomy of broadcasters has been restricted, firstly by the law "in accordance with the law" and, secondly, by the explicit legal task of the NPO to establish programming frameworks, with those trits of concession policy plan, network profiles and so on. I do not see that in this motion. Finally, I am called upon to act as a supervisor. Mrs Sent has a formal point: I am not the supervisor of the NPO. Although I am system responsible, the NPO's supervisor is the supervisory board of the NPO, so if anyone should have to advise on these kinds of issues, that is the supervisory board. It should advise not only on this, but on many issues; this is what the Council does in its annual report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u192	I think there's going to be a semantic discussion here. Let me quote from the explanatory statement. The report says something about system responsibility, as the Secretary of State now says. It states that, within the framework of the Constitution, the Minister also bears responsibility for the proper functioning of the institutions. That's what I meant here. If that is discussed or unclear, my proposal is to delete the words 'in its supervisory role'. So that's what I want to do now. I mean simply the political responsibility of the Secretary of State in the context of the whole of public service broadcasting, so that the Secretary of State, if things go wrong with public money, is always accountable. So my proposal is to delete those words. I will now conclude, with the support of the co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u193	Do I understand from this that you're modifying your motion? In the last paragraph, in which you ask the Secretary of State to do something, you want to delete the words 'in his supervisory role'. You'd like to make that amendment to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u194	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u195	So it's a revised motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u196	Mr Sietsma has a point: I am not only system responsible, but always able to address all the problems that arise in Hilversum. That is the political reality: even if you don't go over it, you can talk to it. I'd like to take that for my hood. However, also with the deletion of the words 'in its supervisory role', I continue to have a problem with the motion. I am given the task of reporting annually on something that, frankly, I do not think is my job. We have laid down the law in two places. On the one hand, there is the Media Commissariat, which is examining a number of criteria; on the other hand, there is the Supervisory Board, which supervises the NPO and the National Supervisory Board, which is set out in the law adopted in March; on the other hand, there is an extension of the role of the Supervisory Board of public service broadcasting as a whole. I can very well imagine that it will look not only at the efficient use of resources, but also at pluralism and appeal and objection procedures. It is actually the case that Mr Schalk referred to. If the Supervisory Board finds that the number of appeal cases has doubled and that they are all lost, the Supervisory Board has a point to discuss with the Management Board. I think it makes sense for you to mention that in the annual report. I would find that much more logical than what Mr Sietsma is asking me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u197	Perhaps I can explain briefly once more what the purpose of this motion is. I started by pointing out that we know a third way in the Netherlands. The situation with broadcasters in the Netherlands is very special and very expensive for us. As far as we are concerned, autonomy is not one of the things that are normally evaluated in an organisation, but something that you should look at, cherish and maintain separately. Our order is so dear to us that we would like to know each year whether it is going well or not. I have also noted this in the first period of time about the way in which broadcasters experience it. If, in spite of this law, there were still a sneaking observation of our third road, my group would not want to go that way. I can't imagine the Secretary of State would want that either. We must be very careful about that. Once again, the great virtue of what is at present justifies, in our view, particular attention to this aspect of the autonomy of the pluralistic philosophical and other broadcasters in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u198	Mr Sietsma and I do not disagree on the importance of pluralism. I think I have a little more faith in the legal safeguards that this law offers for it, more than the old Media Act. These are now more and more concrete. This gives more guidance to discuss it if the broadcasters feel disadvantaged. However, I am not in favour of weighing this up with a reporting obligation on just this one part. I don't know how to map that either. I would much rather ask the Supervisory Board to include the question of how pluralism can be established as a whole as part of the supervision. Then it's where it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u199	Can the Secretary of State explain how he sees this motion in relation to the signal previously given by the Chamber that politics should distance itself more from the NPO, given the heavier role the NPO has in the new bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u200	It is very tempting to break it down now, but I do not know whether that does justice to Mr Sietsma's intention. I don't think I should sit on the supervisory board seat. In fact, I would if I were to report on this. The Chamber always receives the annual reports and the reviews of the NPO and the Supervisory Board. The whole cycle is passing through here. The House of Representatives also discusses this in detail on a regular basis. Mrs. Sent asks about the distance in a programmatic sense. I have the impression that Mr Sietsma is referring to something that we are trying to ensure in the governance of the system: the relationship and balance between the NPO and the broadcasters. Again, we have the Supervisory Board of the NPO for that, which not only oversees the organisation of the NPO, but is much wider in its supervision, namely the full public service broadcasting. This is one of the fundamental changes to the legislative proposal that was adopted and which was also supported by the Christian Union. I think we should leave the reporting obligation there. That's why I'm deposing the motion. I'm coming to a closure. This was, in any case, the longest debate I have ever had in my political careers, adding the debates in spring to today's. I confess it wasn't always easy for me. However, I believe that we have had good discussions and that the detailed and thorough examination has led to useful additions and clarifications. I think that, in the end, despite the delay, it has led to the legislative proposal that will come into force later if this bill is adopted, thanks to this comprehensive treatment. Eventually, the result counts for me. It seems to me that we are doing some very important things together. Firstly, we are achieving a stronger public media mission with more attention to distinctive programmes and to public values. Secondly, I think that we have taken an important step towards a more open system, in which there is more room for good ideas for programmes and for creative competition, not only between traditional broadcasters, but also between outside parties, and a more directing role of the NPO when it comes to greater emphasis on the common objectives rather than just on the objectives of each individual broadcaster. I look forward to it. I think public service broadcasting can handle this very well. I think she'll be able to look ahead and get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-eerstekamer-11.u201	I'm here to deal with the bill. I think I know the answer, but should the question be asked: does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is indeed the case. I propose to vote on Tuesday 25 October next on the legislative proposal and the motions tabled.
