ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u1	I welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I have to apologize to Mr Van der Staaij, who has other obligations and who must, to his regret, fail to do so this evening. But I will try to make my contribution in his mind. We all know the statues of boats being sailed on the beach, where young men jump out and storm forward under the murderous fire of the defenders in the Atlantic Wall. We know the images of tanks thundering through the streets, choosing a position and trying to smoke out fireplaces, so to speak. That kind of images of the liberators certainly, so soon after liberation, are still clear on the retina. With that image on the retina, do you not think that our soldiers, who are working their lives for peace and security in various places in the world, will be killed in their mission by, no matter what, Dutch terrorists, who might have joined terrorist groups there, elsewhere, sowing and supporting death and destruction? Unfortunately, however, it is the sad possibility and sometimes the sad reality. The practice of Islamic terrorism needs no further explanation. In 2000, Parliament said that the Dutch should be withdrawn when the Dutch enter foreign military service. The SGP welcomes the fact that this is now being regulated for people who join organisations that threaten our national security. If the SGP sees fit, the government bases its choices on two principles. Firstly, the Dutch who have joined these terrorist organisations pose a threat to national security. When they return to the Netherlands, we must fear an attack. Secondly, it is intended that these dangerous Dutch people no longer come to the Netherlands. The bill complicates the actual return, but does not make it impossible to return in all cases. The SGP supports these principles, but cannot fully follow the government's conclusions. The story is not yet complete with these principles. What are we going to do if terrorists have managed to get into the Netherlands? Should we then allow them to retain the Dutch as a reward for their creativity and perseverance? Can this be maintained on the basis of the principle of equality? Let me give you an example. Let's say two terrorists want to return to the Netherlands together. They still have Dutch citizenship. One is stopped at the border with his van and loses his Dutch identity. The other is a bit smarter and knows how to crawl underneath the mesh, into the Dutch field. He is not arrested and retains his Dutch identity. So his buddy has an advantage over whoever was driving that van. Is this what the Minister has in mind? The SGP, together with the VVD, has tabled an amendment to avoid these situations. For the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, it should be central to the fact that the Dutch have joined a terrorist organisation, listed on the list of terrorist organisations, and not the question of where they are located. That is why I would like to see the Government's reaction to the amendment to item No. 12:00! 12:00!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u3	It is perfectly understandable that the SGP is making this proposal. I started analyzing it. I then encountered the problem that this legislative proposal has a preventive effect. If we were to deprive someone of Dutch citizenship when he returns to the Netherlands and is already here, it would also become a criminal charge. In my view, you will then have to amend the whole law, because it is actually a criminal line, other than a preventive one. After all, the preventive is no longer there, because someone is already in the Netherlands. How did the SGP take that into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u4	We see this measure particularly in the sphere of administrative law. The Minister shall take an administrative measure. This can be checked by the judge, if that's what you want. That is in principle the end of the matter. There may be situations where there are clear indications that war crimes have been committed, which makes it undesirable to take away all Dutch citizenship at that time, because you want to be able to follow the criminal route. Part of that criminal route may be that the Dutch Federation is still being withdrawn. This is how we approached this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u5	May I refer this aspect to the Minister, Mr Bishop? As I understand it, this whole law is intended as a preventive measure. It's a peculiarity. That means you can get out of the extra guarantees of a criminal charge. That has all been explained very neatly, I think rightly in the explanatory statement. That's why you can't bring in a criminal element, because then you're actually gonna break down the house and you're gonna have a problem with the judge. May I refer this point to the Minister through Mr Bishop? I fear that I will therefore not be able to support this sympathetic amendment in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u6	I think it would be fine to ask the Minister's opinion on this. I tried to explain how we put this in. In our opinion, the administrative approach has the primacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u7	I want to take over at this point. The law we are discussing today is about people staying in Syria or Iraq. Two weeks ago, we discussed a law that should make it possible to take away Dutch citizenship from people residing in the Netherlands, for example if they finance a terrorist organisation. Have we not already complied with the aim of Mr Bishop's amendment with this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u8	No, I think this is complementary to what we decided earlier. You also need this aspect in your toolbox to be able to operate effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u9	I don't understand. Again, we dealt with that bill the last Thursday before the recess. Last Tuesday we voted on it and now the First Chamber is going to think about it. In that law, the already existing possibility of depriving Dutch people who are engaged in terrorism in the Netherlands has really been extended. There are legal safeguards in that law, though. These legal safeguards are more problematic for tonight's bill. I know the SGP as a party that wants to regulate matters properly and that wants to maintain the legal guarantees. Why then submit an additional amendment, if it has already been properly regulated by law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u10	As I see it, the earlier law regulates the possibility of depriving the Netherlands of people who join terrorist organisations in the Netherlands. This bill offers the opportunity to deprive people of Dutch citizenship who have joined an organisation that is on that blacklist of terrorist organisations. That could be a different category. That is why I said earlier that our approach is complementary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u11	While we're interrupting, there's a slightly different question that doesn't directly match the previous question. How does the SGP view the difference between people with two nationalities, to whom one can be taken away, and people with one nationality, to whom no nationality can be taken away? I know the SGP as a generally very legal and balanced party in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u13	I think that is a fair compliment; the SGP does that well. I have other criticisms of the SGP, probably well-known.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u14	We need to talk about that again!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u15	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u16	Not tonight, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u17	Certainly not tonight, Mr. Chairman. In the context of this proposal, how does the SGP view the difference between people with one nationality and people with two nationalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you for this question. I shall come back to that explicitly later in my speech. The government states that it considers criminal prosecution to be more important than the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. The SGP would like more explanation of that statement. In many cases, we don't have to choose between criminal prosecution and the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, do we? Why does the government present them primarily as alternatives? The SGP aims to use these measures as closely as possible and thus complementaryly, precisely because both measures can serve a different purpose. The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is not punitive but serves the protection of national security. As far as we are concerned, that is at the heart of the matter. The SGP would like to be given a more detailed account of the possibilities of criminal prosecution in the event of the expiry of Dutch nationality. In many cases, universal jurisdiction is sufficient for criminal prosecution and Dutch nationality is not indispensable. It may be desirable, but perhaps the Minister could go into this a little further. Moreover, almost all offences can be prosecuted on the basis of Dutch criminal law if they have been committed for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Perhaps the Minister could comment a little more on the relationship between the administrative and criminal aspects that have just been raised. The SGP considers it important that a clear and careful procedure be followed when withdrawing the Dutch citizenship with a decision of the Minister and the possibility of appeal to the courts. As far as we are concerned, the expiry of Dutch citizenship is not automatically desirable, because then confusion and uncertainty are lurking. Has the Dutchmanship been lost or not? Moreover, criminal prosecution against our will may be hindered if nationality has already expired by law. We believe that both an explicit decision and a possibility of judicial review are desirable in the context of due diligence. However, a careful procedure does not mean that standards are flexible. Terrorists should and should be able to count on them losing Dutch citizenship if they join a blacklisted terrorist organisation. The balance of interest no longer lies with the government, but with the terrorist who chooses to travel and join such an organisation, with all the consequences known to him in advance for himself and his environment. The SGP considers that the bill leaves too much open the question of whether or not nationality will expire. The Minister can withdraw nationality from foreign military service, but as far as we are concerned, this can really be more robust. I would therefore like to hear his response to the Van der Staaij/Tellegen amendment to item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u19	I come back to a similar dilemma, because this amendment, too, was welcomed in the first instance, until I read in the explanatory statement that, precisely when the Netherlands is deprived, no distinction is made between adults and minors. It is precisely because there is also a need to look at minors, for example a child of 12 or 13 who is derailed and leaving, that it is important that you do some balancing of interests, and that can only be done by this construction. How does the SGP indicate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u20	That is a valid point. It may be that someone at a certain age makes a decision for which he cannot actually be held responsible, given his age. That is a difficult point, but we have chosen to settle it with clarity. However, we have decided not to do so automatically, but to do so by a decision of the Minister. If the Minister wishes to use his discretionary powers, I would be able to imagine something, although I do not have a clear view of the extent to which that is sufficiently regulated at the moment. In addition, an additional time of scrutiny of that decision is possible before the courts as an additional care. I think that it should be clear in the regulations and that wisdom is particularly desirable in the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u21	Then I'm gonna do the same thing I just did. Perhaps we can ask the Minister together how we can solve the problem of minors, because this is not mentioned in the amendment of the SGP and the VVD, which is mentioned in the explanatory statement. It is important that we continue to provide room for the balancing of interests in the case of minors and vulnerability, because at that age you often do not think about what you are doing. If we don't, I think we're going too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u22	I believe that Mrs Van Toorenburg's request is included in my last question, namely the request for a response to the Van der Staaij/Tellegen amendment to item No. 13. When people actually join organisations that are on the blacklist, organisations that threaten our security, that threat is serious enough to deprive them of Dutch citizenship. That is how the explanatory statement describes it. However, the text of the bill seems to suggest that, in addition to this, it should be demonstrated in individual situations that there is a real threat to national security. The SGP feels that this is undesirable. There must be no ambiguity about this. The addition is not necessary to reflect the balance of interests, because this is not a matter of national security, but of the circumstances of those concerned. So the only thing we need to look at is national security. This is at stake at the moment when a terrorist organization is joined. It would be very strange if we did not withdraw Dutch citizenship because it would be better for national security, while there is a connection with an organisation that threatens our national security. I would also like to receive a response to the amendment on this point. Finally, I would like to address the issue of bald nationality, which responds to Mrs Van Tongeren's question. Where there is no dual nationality, the Dutch citizenship cannot be withdrawn. The possibilities for statelessness are very limited in international laws and regulations. On this basis, the SGP accepts that there is inequality between terrorists, but we do want to minimise these differences. Terrorists who must retain Dutch nationality because they do not have another nationality must lose as many privileges as possible of Dutch citizenship. They're getting a stripped-down, bald nationality. Dismissal of the right to vote, for example on appointment to public offices, is limited in the case of very serious crimes. That is already the case at the moment. Does the Minister consider that this should be possible in the event of a conviction for involvement in a terrorist organisation? The Dutchmanship is preserved, but it becomes a undressed Dutchmanship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u23	Should the criminal court be involved in this, or is the Minister of Justice in that case the appropriate person who can decide to take away the right to vote, and possibly some other rights linked to Dutch citizenship, from whom the Dutch community cannot be taken away?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u24	If you can come up with a clear and clearly defined set of privileges that someone can be deprived of if it is established that he has been a member of a terrorist organisation, the administrative line seems to me to be most efficient. A decision by the Minister with the subsequent possibility of judicial review seems to me to be the most efficient approach, if only to avoid endless procedures, trials, discussions and differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u25	I just thought the SGP was a state-of-the-art party. Criminal law has been created to protect individuals from an omnipotent government. A criminal judge weighs all the circumstances of a particular case. An administrative test is very light. Your nationality with the corresponding rights, as can be democratically elected and elected, is about the essence of a democratic rule of law. You should then be able to be taken away for efficiency by a Minister of Justice. I know Mr Bishop is replacing the other spokesperson, but is this really the position of the SGP?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u26	We are making the analogy here with the terrorist with two nationalities who lose Dutch citizenship. It loses all the privileges attached to Dutch citizenship. According to our approach, this is also on the basis of a decision of the Minister on the basis of careful judicial review. By analogy, you should approach a terrorist, someone who joins a terrorist organization and who has only one nationality, in a similar way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mr. Chairman. People in the Netherlands are afraid of an attack. Not only are they afraid of the terrorists who are born and radicalized here and who are not planning to leave the Netherlands ever, but they are also afraid of the threat posed by the so-called returners: the Dutch who have left and have joined a terrorist organisation like IS completely voluntarily. They represent an essential danger to our national security on return. This has been demonstrated by the attacks in Paris and Brussels. Among the attackers were several returners, ordinary French and Belgians who had joined ISIS and returned heavily radicalised to their own country to make an attack there. These are the facts. It is clear that we must do everything we can to prevent those returning to our country from committing an attack. Where possible, they should be prevented from returning. This cabinet does this in different ways. For example, we passed the Act on administrative measures yesterday and previously passed the law on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship after a criminal conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u28	Today we are discussing a law that goes one step further, a law that makes it possible for Dutch people who voluntarily join a terrorist organisation to take away the Dutch identity and declare unwanted aliens. The VVD supports this law. Why? Because the VVD believes that we should do everything we can to ensure our national security and because Dutch people who turn against their own country, who take up arms to fight against the country of which they carry a passport, are no longer entitled to the nationality of the country in the eyes of the VVD. Fighting against the Netherlands justifies the end of Dutchhood. Jihadists don't deserve to be Dutch. That is a far-reaching measure, but it is simply urgently needed in the eyes of the VVD. The attacks in countries around us, the last less than 150 kilometres from here in Brussels, have shown that returners pose a very serious threat to our national security. A report by the AIVD shows that the figures returning now are even more dangerous than the first batch and that they are ordered to attack in the home country. Recently, a number of scientists in the Destination Syria report, commissioned by the Rotterdam Court, even stated that it is impossible to travel to the Caliphate and to avoid terrorist activity there. These people don't like the Netherlands. In fact, these people turn against the Netherlands and therefore no longer deserve to be Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u29	That leads to a question from Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u30	The argument of the VVD is: these people are dangerous to the Netherlands, so they are no longer allowed in the country. Does the VVD think that these people suddenly stop being dangerous, when we say they can't enter the Netherlands anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u31	No, but just before that, this law is written. You want to prevent them from returning to the Netherlands. This makes them de facto less dangerous than when you let them return, radicalized and ready to attack their own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u32	So the VVD is okay with these radicalized and dangerous people arriving in other countries. The VVD simply shifts the problem to other countries. The VVD does not say: people born and rooted here are best deradicalized and severely punished in our own country. The VVD says, "You know what, we'll just dump the problem across the border." Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u33	That is a very interesting interpretation of what I have just said. They are Dutch, with a Dutch passport, with Dutch nationality, who are doing everything they can to turn their backs on this society, our country and who are prepared to take up arms and attack the country of their nationality. That's what you're trying to prevent, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mrs Tellegen continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u35	Yes, the loss of Dutch nationality goes far. Especially if this is done on the basis of a decision of the Minister, without prior conviction or intervention by the judge. That is why the VVD agrees that there should be a legal remedy against such a decision. I do have a few questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u36	But first there is a question from Mr Van Klaveren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I largely agree with the input of the VVD on this point. However, I do have a question. The VVD indicates that people who have returned from Syria or Iraq, for example, and who have engaged in terrorist activities, should also be able to lose their Dutch nationality. I fully agree with that, but my group actually wants to go a step further and also thinks that people who have not yet left and who have been associated with a terrorist organisation should be able to lose Dutch citizenship, for example, online or through financial support. What's the VVD like about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u38	We've had that discussion here before. There is indeed a difference between the VVD and the PVV. The VVD wants to do everything they can to prevent these people from travelling out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u39	First of all, I'm not part of the PVV anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u40	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u41	In addition, that is not an answer to the question. We wonder why the VVD states that people who are in the Netherlands and who have joined a terrorist organisation in the Netherlands could not lose Dutch nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u42	Can you repeat that, Mr Van Klaveren?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u43	I am referring to people who are here, in the Netherlands, and who are carrying out terrorist activities here. Think of support online, for example financial support or support in preparing terrorist actions. Why doesn't the VVD want those people in the Netherlands, so even before they have left, to lose the Dutchmanship?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u44	That's going too far for the VVD. We have passed a whole package of laws here to prevent terrorist attacks in the Netherlands. Before the recess, we have dealt extensively with the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism. Yesterday we voted on it and adopted it. We are doing everything we can to prevent these people from committing attacks in the Netherlands. Taking away the Netherlands without joining a terrorist organization is too much for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u45	Mrs Tellegen continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u47	I think we're doing two-way interruptions, Mr Van Klaveren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u48	My point is that there is an answer to a question that I did not ask. It is not about people who have not joined, but about people who are in the Netherlands and who have joined a terrorist organisation. Our idea is that people who have joined a terrorist organisation, but have not yet left, should be able to lose all the Dutchmanship. The VVD doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u49	Then I have not understood Mr Van Klaveren's question clearly enough. This is exactly what we have just discussed with Mr Bishop. We have also tabled an amendment on this. The bill before us today, which we are discussing, applies not only to people outside Dutch territory who have joined a terrorist organisation, but also to people returning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u50	Before they traveled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u51	Before they even left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u52	That situation may also arise. We have a criminal procedure open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u53	Clear. I think the points have been sufficiently exchanged. Mrs Gesthuizen also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u54	I have a very brief enlightening question, because otherwise I will also lose track. I do not know when it was in this Chamber, whether it was six months ago or a year ago, we have already discussed this very point of law, namely how to take away the Dutch identity of someone who is involved in, for example, recruitment for the call to? In that light, the statement of the VVD here does not understand that that would go too far at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u55	Then I shall return to Mr Van Klaver's question. I make a distinction with the law that we passed when it comes to losing Dutch citizenship on the basis of committing a criminal offence. We've been through this parliament for a long time. Mr Van Klaveren says that if someone is within the Netherlands, he has not left, and is part of a terrorist organisation, which must also be able to lose Dutch citizenship. It is precisely this situation that the amendment sees, with which we are trying to regulate it both within and outside the Dutch borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u56	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u57	Yes, the loss of Dutch nationality goes a long way, especially if it happens on the basis of a decision of the Minister without prior notice or intervention by the judge. That is why the VVD also agrees that there should be an appeal against such a decision. I do have a few more questions about it. The VVD agrees with the possibility of going from a courtroom to a courtroom, but does not agree that the Dutch government will pay for its costs. As far as the VVD is concerned, the data subject himself is responsible for the payment of the Registry Law, and otherwise his legal representative or one of the close relatives, but not the Dutch taxpayer. The VVD, together with the CDA, is therefore tabling an amendment to reverse this. It cannot be explained: he or she fought alongside IS, but the Dutch government is responsible for the costs of the process. I am not clear how the person concerned is or may become aware of the Minister's decision to withdraw his or her nationality. How exactly is this going? I have asked myself this question when reading the explanatory memorandum. When you're in that caliphate, you don't read the Dutch State News. How does he or she then become aware of the decision taken by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u58	There is a question from Mr Recourt. I suspect at the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u59	That is true, but it also has everything to do with that last point: not being informed. It is even very likely that if you are deprived of Dutch citizenship while you are fighting there, you don't know anything about it at all. That's why it makes sense that if you want to organize legal protection for that, the government has to do it itself. How can you ask for money from someone who doesn't even know it's happening, to still organize that legal protection? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u60	We think it is wrong in principle. If someone has joined a terrorist organisation and the minister decides on that basis to deprive Dutch nationality of that person, this law creates a guarantee of legal certainty. However, we think it is too far-fetched for the Dutch authorities to bear the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u61	There are few more far-reaching administrative measures than the removal of nationality. I have not heard Mrs Tellegen say that she thinks that is a bad idea. If the person in question does not respond himself within a few weeks, the government therefore does so itself and asks the judge to check whether it is doing well. How can you ask for money if that person doesn't know that's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u62	That is exactly what this law provides for. In the event that the person is not aware of the Minister's decision, the Minister shall of his own motion appeal. That is precisely why, perhaps, we shall be discussing this later with Mrs Van Toorenburg, why we do not support that amendment either, because we believe that this principle should be maintained. However, there is a flaw in the following point: I cannot explain that these terrorists carry out their justice process at the expense of the government. They have to take care of this in a different way; that is their own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u63	My colleague from the VVD has just rightly said that terrorists or alleged terrorists do not read the Official Journal. However, I have heard a great deal about the preventive and signaling function of this law. The VVD says that these documents are not read by potential terrorists or terrorists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u64	I didn't take anything out of it. I simply asked the Minister to answer my question as to how the person concerned gets informed. However, even if the person concerned is not informed, this bill provides for the possibility for the Minister, if he has not heard anything after four weeks, to appeal on his own initiative. So I think that's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u65	We'll talk past each other here, too. This law or a punitive............................................................................................................................................................... If you drive so hard on the highway, you'll be punished. In my opinion, the VVD has widely argued that this law also has a preventive effect, namely that people think three times before they leave, otherwise they might be punished with the most severe sanction, namely the loss of Dutch citizenship. However, my colleague from the VVD has just said: these people do not read the State News at all, they are not aware. This means that this law does not have any preventive effect. Does this law have a preventive effect? How can that be if the people involved will not read the law at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u66	I read the preventive action the other way around. We want to prevent these figures from returning to the Netherlands and crossing the border with a bomb belt. You want to prevent them from attacking here and that's why you make them unwanted strangers and take away their Dutch identity. Then they will not return to the country of their nationality. It's called prevention. It's called prevention. That is a different kind of preventive measure than Mrs Van Tongeren proposes, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u67	My question concerns the rights of the Registry. It may also be the case, for example, that family members will have to pay them. Suppose a family with a lot of pain saw a relative travel to Syria. The Minister then takes an administrative measure and automatically appeals against it. That family then says: we think it is terrible what happened, we distance ourselves from it and we think it is a good decision. That family will still have to pay the registry costs. A family who doesn't want to appeal has to pay for a procedure she doesn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u68	I find this a very difficult question, because we are now pretending to be talking about very fine figures. These are Dutch people who have joined a terrorist organisation like IS. If that proves to be the case and the conditions are met, the Minister will decide to deprive them of Dutch citizenship. This may be appealed against by the Minister himself or on his own initiative. It is then simply up to the next of kin to pay for those registry rights, regardless of what situation they are in at the time and what they think. Surely it is not the responsibility of the Dutch government to bear those costs, as if they were people we still want to assist? We give them the opportunity to appeal and appeal. That's all secured in this law. The VVD also likes that, because it's about something, but there are limits. If it's the VVD's fault, that border is right here at the Registry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u69	I do not know if Mrs Tellegen understood me quite well. It is not a question of defending people who have travelled. It's a terrible act when people join a terrorist organization. However, there are family members who hate that choice and who say: "If the minister decides that, so be it. We agree to that. Someone is indeed alienating himself from the Dutch community. It has to be." They will then still have to pay the Registry fees because of the fact that an action is brought on their own initiative against a decision which they agree with and against which they do not wish to appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u70	I do not agree with what Mr Segers is saying here. He would rather let the government take the fall for the registry rights than a family who wants to waive the decision of a family member. I'll turn it around: instead of the government, just let the family pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u71	I don't get the impression you're gonna agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u72	I also have a question on this point. This is just really bad theater, isn't it? The VVD just wants to show that she can get in even harder and even more with a stretched leg. Isn't this a bunch of bullshit? This can't be happening, can it? The government says: we appeal ourselves and we will then recover the costs from people who are not part of a decision of any of their family members. Mrs Tellegen knows for herself that this is simply not possible. Mrs Tellegen also knows that we are living in a rule of law here. She knows that a rule of law, which, despite all the nonsense of this cabinet, we would like to maintain together, costs money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u73	I didn't hear a question; this was a statement. I would have stayed with the question of what exactly is meant by the remark that the administrative judge can test more broadly. How should I see this in relation to the practice that the information provided by the security services on the basis of which the Minister makes his decision cannot always be made public? The difference between entering foreign military service and volunteering to join a terrorist organization has just been mentioned. The VVD doesn't really understand this difference. Boundaries fade; terrorist organisations no longer operate on behalf of a country. That is precisely why it would have made much more sense to join the existing law, on the basis of which a person loses nationality at the time he or she joins a foreign military force. The VVD considers the Minister's argument that, on the basis of the Rottmann judgment, European law would no longer be possible for nationality to automatically lapse, somewhat lean. More broadly, the VVD considers the arguments of lack of legal certainty and lack of legal remedy, but considers that there should be less non-binding when taking a withdrawal decision. The Minister should not only have the power to withdraw from the Netherlands persons entering foreign military service or voluntarily joining a terrorist organisation, but he should be obliged to do so. After all, this is about the safety of the Netherlands. That is why the VVD has co-signed Mr Van der Staaij's amendment on this point. This brings me to the next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u74	There's another interruption by Mrs. Swinkels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u75	I am curious about the position of the VVD. On the one hand, the VVD says: it may be difficult, because the State News is not read. On the other hand, the VVD says: the minister should simply take away the Dutch identity of someone who has left and joined a terrorist organisation. What about legal protection in Mrs Tellegen's eyes? A: Someone knows nothing about the decision. B: There is no longer any possibility for the Minister to make a decision. Well, then you're gonna run out of legal protection after all. Will Mrs Tellegen respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u76	First of all, it is not always the case that the person concerned will not be informed. That situation can arise. That is why I asked the Minister what happened. However, on the basis of the explanatory statement, we cannot draw the conclusion that the person concerned will never be aware of the decision. On the question of legal protection, I would like to say the following. That legal protection is indeed there, because even if the Minister is obliged to take a decision on this, the amendment that I co-sign with the SGP is still open to appeal. In this respect, legal protection is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u77	Isn't it too late? In the view of the VVD, the minister then no longer has discretion: he has no room to make his own assessment, but has to withdraw the Dutch identity. Then he makes that decision, and then whoever it is does not even know that that decision has been taken. Then where is the legal protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u78	Again, about the latter: we cannot at this time assume that the person concerned is never aware. That is exactly the question I asked the Minister. And even if the person concerned is not aware of it, there is still a guarantee that the Minister himself will make his own appeal. This amendment does not change anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u79	I'm having second thoughts. What do we really care if someone doesn't read the State News when he's fighting against Dutch soldiers in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u80	I think it's important that someone be aware of it. If he is not informed, then the Minister has created the possibility of self-appealing, because he never wants to be accused of not being able to appeal. That is a valid choice for this far-reaching measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u81	You could also reason like this. People who are not there and who have made a mistake can easily learn about it, but if someone in the desert is fighting against Dutch soldiers and is housekeeping in such a godly way that we don't want to see him again, do we suddenly find it sad that he doesn't read the State News? I think it's just fine that he doesn't read the State News, that he never reads it at all, and that he never comes back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u82	Then the CDA goes a little further than the VVD. I really don't agree with that. That is precisely why I do not support Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment on the deletion of the Minister's right to appeal. I believe that this possibility should always be there, even if the person concerned is not aware of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u83	Mrs Tellegen continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u84	In the note following the report, I read that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is not to be considered if it is established in advance that, following the withdrawal of the Dutch citizenship, it will not be possible to make a statement because the person concerned could derive a right of access from Article 8 of the ECHR. Here's a question. Indeed, it can never be established in advance that there will be no possibility of an junk declaration under Article 8 of the ECHR, since it concerns an individual balance of interests. Precisely the fact that the Dutch were withdrawn would also be a circumstance that should be taken into account in that individual balancing of interests. Can the Minister confirm that it can never be established beforehand that Article 8 of the ECHR precludes an undesirable statement, but that all individual circumstances, in this case also loss of Dutch citizenship, must always be weighed in advance? My next point is double nationality. In practice, this law only affects jihadists who have dual nationality. After joining a terrorist organisation, they can be deprived of Dutch nationality. We, too, consider statelessness to be undesirable in principle, but if it is up to us, we will take on both the jihadists of dual nationality and the jihadists of a single nationality. They're guilty of exactly the same thing. They turn against the country of their nationality. They're willing to fight the country they have a passport on. They're willing to commit an attack in the country where they have their roots. The VVD wants to take away any jihadist who leaves the country to take up arms against the Netherlands. I, too, know that we are committed to international treaties that ensure that we do not make people out of state in this world, but how do we solve this? Not so long ago, the MP Van der Steur asked the then Minister of V and J to hold an international discussion on whether other Contracting Parties, like us, are facing this problem and how they view the solution of this problem. That is why I am also asking this Minister today whether he is prepared to see whether there is a willingness to do so in Europe and in the world at the moment. I ask the Minister to talk to his fellow ministers about the state of affairs in their country and to ask them how they view this and what their views are. Is the Minister prepared to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u85	Do I now understand that the VVD advocates the banishment of Dutch citizens, as a stateless citizen, so put them across the border and take away their passports even without the use of any criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u86	We had that discussion in the previous law a year ago. At that time, the VVD clearly took the view that jihadists with a single and jihadists with a double nationality should be subject to the same rules. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u87	A follow-up question, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u88	Can the VVD then make an attempt to explain how it makes the world safer? 'Cause where does that end? Of horrible double killers, we can also take the passport and put them across the border. Or take horrible child molesters. Those are horrible crimes, too. Are we going to take away these people's nationality and banish them and put them across the border? How will the world be safer if we move people across borders, even without a single nationality? Apparently, that's what the VVD is proposing. How will that make us safer? Those people will be out of state in Belgium. Are they gonna behave properly all of a sudden? Is this really what the VVD is proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u89	I would at least like to explore it, because I think it is crooked that at the moment we can only apply this measure to people of dual nationality. Perhaps there are also cases where people do the same, so join a terrorist organisation and voluntarily decide to stand outside this society and even turn against it. This is a matter of national security. Then I think it is justified to ask at least whether these people should not be treated in the same way as people of dual nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u90	Mrs Van Tongeren, would you like to make a brief concluding remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u91	Of course, the honourable Member is talking about her own answer, but I do not know how the world will be safer. Much is said about Dutch people fighting abroad to make the world safer, but how will the world be safer if we permanently banish these people from the Netherlands, some of them even without any nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u92	That is exactly the question I asked the Minister. I would like him to look at the extent to which this is a problem in other countries at European level, preferably at the time of the Dutch Presidency. I fully agree with Mrs Van Tongeren that it is a first step to settle it in the Netherlands. However, these matters are cross-border and we should therefore like to see whether we can specifically amend the relevant laws or treaties for these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mrs Tellegen continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u94	I'm closing up. The Dutch who join terrorist organisations such as IS do not shy away from violence in pursuing their ideals. On returning to the Netherlands, these persons pose a threat to national security. They must therefore be prevented from returning by withdrawing from the Netherlands. The VVD believes that fighting against the Netherlands justifies the end of Dutch citizenship. Combating terrorism within and outside our borders is complex. Nevertheless, we have a duty to continue thinking about effective measures to monitor our national security. New paths must therefore be explored and new instruments developed. If necessary, new laws should be adopted. This law is an example of that. That's why the VVD supports this law. Jihadists don't deserve to be Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u95	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is part of a series of measures taken in the fight against terrorism. It is, of course, very important that we give our directors and judges the opportunity to act properly against the evils of terrorism. The aim is to establish an effective security policy that really helps to stop terrorism. This bill must also be passed along that measuring bar. The present bill proposes to allow the Minister to withdraw the Dutch citizenship of persons in the interests of national security. This is in itself a special figure, which is derived from the analogy with the article on the loss of nationality in the case of foreign military service, which has been in our code since 1892. People who join an army of another country are already losing their nationality. On that basis, too, the Christian Union Group has always been able to imagine a great deal. The loss of nationality is in fact contained in the act itself. To some extent, this also applies to people who join a terrorist organisation. They turn their backs on everything we stand for. They thus make a choice against our society, against the Netherlands. That is why we supported the proposal at the time, which, among other things, regulates the possibility for the criminal court to withdraw from the Netherlands in the event of a conviction for terrorism. We are, as I said, in favour of withdrawing Dutch citizenship in the event of a conviction for terrorism, preceded by a proper test by the criminal court. I have more doubts about the law we are discussing today, which leaves such a decision to the Minister. After all, a person who enters foreign military service automatically opts for a new stately affinity. Someone who joins a terrorist organization does not choose a new state or another state, but the evil of terror. Even if there are terrorist organisations that take a stately approach, joining a terrorist club is not a question of exchanging a passport. I would like to see the Minister reconsidering the difference between entering foreign military service and joining a terrorist organisation. I wonder whether administrative law is appropriate for this type of decision. It's not a waste of time to take away the Dutchmanship through a pen stroke of the minister. When, in 1984, the National Law on the Netherlands, which included the modernised provision on foreign military service, was discussed, Mr Schutte of the GPV, one of the predecessors of the Christian Union, already drew attention to this point, then together with the CDA. At that time, he advocated the abolition of nationality as an additional penalty, which could be imposed by the criminal court. Taking away Dutch citizenship is not just something, so it fits a proper test in a democratic rule of law. I'm gonna keep finding it an attractive route today, too. The removal of nationality is, in principle, done through the criminal justice system. The good news, as I said, is that this has already been made possible when it comes to terrorism. In the case of a conviction for terrorism, judges can already declare their nationality invalid as an additional penalty. Of course, this is only possible if someone has another nationality too, in order to prevent statelessness. I want to know from the Minister why he doesn't think that criminal route is enough. After all, an advantage of the criminal route is that it is possible to do justice first. In the case of foreign military service, I find that even less important than in the case of terrorism. If possible, I believe that terrorist suspects should be prosecuted. How is the cancellation of Dutch citizenship prevented criminal prosecution? Another question is whether this bill really helps to counter terrorism and guard national security. Is this a measure that should effectively prevent terrorist attacks in our country? Or does the law have symbolic value? In any case, I note that the Council of State is not convinced of the added value of the proposal in relation to the current criminal law possibilities. Can the government respond to that again? What means are there already to declare people who are threatening national security undesirable if necessary or if they are to be dealt with in a different way? Can the Minister state on what points national security would be at stake if this law were not adopted? That must become clear to us in this debate. I wonder whether the cancellation of Dutch citizenship is appropriate to the case of minors joining a terrorist organisation. In criminal law, we treat minors differently from adults. Shouldn't that also be when it comes to withdrawing Dutch citizenship? Should we not exclude minors, I ask the Minister. I note that the law delegates a number of important criteria to lower regulation. From the list of terrorist organizations, I get that, because you have to change it every time. However, the delegation provision in paragraph 10 of Article 14 allows the entire balance of interest over the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship to be further completed. I wonder whether that is not a matter of regulating at law level, at least as far as the substance of that consideration is concerned. Can the Minister explain that choice to us again? Now I come to the appeal. For the protection of the law, the Minister has devised a special arrangement in which an appeal against the Minister's decision to withdraw from the Netherlands is brought by law. I actually see in that the confirmation that the criminal route would be better connected. I know that the Minister always insists that we should not introduce an ex ante review in administrative law, but at the same time I note that we are increasingly having decisions reviewed in administrative law which are less suitable for ex post review. I would like to hear a more fundamental reflection from the Minister of Justice on this development. Isn't that a good reason to look at that again? I'm rounding up. For the Christian Union, the question is whether this bill is necessary for the fight against terrorism and why the possibilities in criminal law are not adequate. It is up to the government to convince our group of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u96	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch rule of law must be protected from terrorist violence by radicalised persons. Terrorists must therefore be prosecuted and punished on return. There is no doubt about that for D66, but we believe that it is only after the intervention of a judge that the defendant is also a culprit. Until then, you don't punish, but follow and, if necessary, interrupt. That is the work of the intelligence and security services. Terrorism measures must also be effective: for D66, therefore, no symbolic measures or measures that are at odds with the fundamental rights of our democratic society which we are trying to protect. With that look, I'm looking at this bill. This bill raises many questions and concerns for me, and not just for me. It was also a reason for the Council of State, the College of Human Rights, the Dutch Lawyers Committee on Human Rights and the Dutch Order of Lawyers to make critical noises. The same applies to a number of professors, including Jesserun d'Oliveira. I shall confine myself to three subjects. The first is legal protection, the second is the effectiveness of the proposed measure and the third is international relations. I'll start with legal protection. As has already been said, the removal of nationality is a far-reaching, far-reaching measure which infringes fundamental rights. That raises the question of whether someone can defend themselves if the minister withdraws his Dutch identity and how you get it back if it turns out that was wrong. These questions are central to legal protection. If you then look at what information this withdrawal is based on, it relates to an area in which, for example, ISIS operates or, more broadly, in which terrorist organisations operate. That's an inconveniently chaotic area. Information is difficult to check on the spot and therefore errors are lurking. In addition, the person concerned cannot give his or her views on the whole. So what percentage of false positives does the minister expect? A pre-trial judicial test would provide a good and necessary guarantee, but this bill does not provide for this. There has only been a "fine" and that has also been mentioned before, a "fine" because it is an ex post administrative test. I also see practical problems in this regard. Access to justice in the Netherlands is for the person concerned only if he is able to see the Official Journal abroad and if the Minister makes his own appeal on behalf of those concerned. Even the CDA wants to get rid of the latter. Legal protection is also about a fair trial. Everyone has the right to a fair trial. For this purpose, Article 6 of the ECHR shall apply. This applies in principle to criminal proceedings, but it also applies to administrative measures of a punitive nature. That seems to me to be quite the issue here. Is it a fair trial if it is established in advance that the person who is being withdrawn from the Netherlands does not have the opportunity to be heard or even be present at the trial? After all, he or she is no longer allowed in the Netherlands, because there is immediately an undesirable statement linked to the withdrawal of the decision to deprive the Netherlands of its status. In addition, the information on which the withdrawal decision is based often comes from the security services and that is why the information will often be secret and therefore very limited to judicial control. Another thing that stands out in the legislative proposal is that there is no objection or appeal against the designation of an organisation and its inclusion on the list of terrorist organisations. I'm surprised. It means that first an individual member of an erroneously notified organisation must lose his or her Dutch identity in order to be able to correct that error. Why does the Minister choose this detour, with such serious consequences for the person concerned if it turns out that it was wrong afterwards? Moreover, a path which may lead to a fragmentation of attention to organisations and to individual members, which may subsequently prove to be a waste of time. Then I come to effectiveness. In addition to the questions about the lack of legal protection, I also have concerns about the effectiveness of the proposal. If you look at the added value, many questions are raised. The Council of State also points this out and says that it is not convinced, especially if you look at the existing criminal law possibilities. In the written round of questions, D66 has already asked for an overview of what you can do now with criminal law in hand to prosecute terrorists at any stage of preparation for a terrorist offence or act in fact. It was also asked at that time to explain, by area of competence, where this power would be inadequate in relation to this bill and why this bill is therefore necessary to protect the Dutch legal order and national security. That overview never came up. Let me conclude by saying that the bill has no added value or the Minister does not know whether it is. I think it's good to get that cleared up. Then I foresee counterproductive consequences, because the bill also seems to assume that anyone returning would be a danger. This is, as the Council of State points out, contrary to the conclusions of the AIVD and the NCTV, which state precisely that the majority of returners are not threatened. Isn't it better to follow them and if necessary prosecute them after returning to the Netherlands, and to deradicalize them wherever possible? Or is it better to leave them out of the country, and that is a rhetorical question, after being deprived of their Dutch identity abroad, among inflammatory terrorists? Before I get to my next topic, I'm gonna stop for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u97	I think that's a good idea. Mrs Van Toorenburg, your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u98	The latest reports by the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator show a very different picture, namely that the people returning at the moment are very dangerous. Because if they're not dangerous, they're long gone, killed or captured there. If you pull out, you'll have a problem there. If you succeed, we'll see you're dangerous in this country. That's what the national coordinator says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u99	The annual reports of the AIVD for 2015, as well as the report of November 2015, show that in principle there is a threat of returners, but that most Dutch returners do not appear to have a threat of violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u100	However, we have also included the latest report by the national coordinator, which shows very clearly that the returners pose a huge danger right now. That is why the cabinet has rightly moved on to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u101	I don't hear a question in this. You may respond or continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u102	I'd still like to respond to it. I know what the CDA thinks about it, because that goes even further than this bill. The CDA would prefer to see that there is no more professional possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u103	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u104	No, this was a response to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u105	And I wasn't finished. The CDA assumes that every returnee is a danger to Dutch security. The NTCV notes that this is not the case. That is also a reason for the Minister to say: I would like to have discretionary powers, discretion to consider on a case-by-case basis whether or not it is necessary to withdraw Dutch citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u106	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u107	I think Mrs. Swinkels should read better. The CDA does not want to abolish any appeal at all, because that is not in our amendments. I also advise her to read the latest report from the National Coordinator. Then maybe she'll come to another conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u108	I don't think that gives rise to any questions. Mrs. Swinkels continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u109	I have read the CDA amendment correctly. In it, the CDA argues that... Excuse me, Mrs. Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u110	No, Mrs Swinkels, you are speaking and there may only be interruptions, but not from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u111	In any case, the possibility of appeal is quite limited and so is the CDA. That's how I read it. I will continue my speech. I had come to an automatic shock as stated in the Van der Staaij/Tellegen amendment to item No. 13. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the Minister always automatically takes away Dutch citizenship and can no longer decide otherwise, so that he is no longer able to balance the importance of national security with other interests, including those of those concerned. That raises questions for me. I am happy to present them to the Minister in the hope that he will advise against the amendment. How is this compatible with the proposal? After all, the Minister himself calls for a free policy space because he has to weigh the importance of withdrawal against other interests, such as maintaining the ability to collect information or to use criminal law and to detect, prosecute and prosecute terrorists. Finally, I would like to comment on international relations. If the Minister is so sure that people who lose Dutch citizenship are terrorists, why not just prosecute them in the Netherlands, or, as can be done, wherever they are? Or does the Netherlands leave that to Lebanon, which suffers from many refugees and then the Dutch terrorists, whom we no longer want in our country, have to prosecute and bring to justice? How does this relate to our efforts to maintain the rule of law in countries such as Jordan and Lebanon and to create and maintain a safe environment there? After all, the Minister himself writes that the chance of successful prosecution by the Netherlands, after the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, has become extremely low. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he rhymes with all this. Finally, I would like to receive a reassurance from the Minister, because tonight I again hear the VVD call to take Dutch nationality away from a single nationality and to make it stateless. I would like to hear the Minister's confirmation that this is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u112	Mrs Van Tongeren has the floor. Excuse me, I'm wrong. I would like to thank Mrs Van Tongeren for her kindness and her willingness to speak already, because she has already left her chair. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u113	You may know, Chairman, that we are sometimes called on Twitter. We're gonna get our asses kicked when we weren't even there. I have to say, then, that whoever started calling names might not have heard the name right, because I wasn't even in the room when that happened. This is undoubtedly what is happening to Mrs Van Tongeren. Mr. Chairman. It will appeal to the Minister when I start with the sentence: Good wine needs time. Unfortunately, some wine needs a little bit of time. There is now at last a proposal that regulates which persons we think of, in particular, the outgoing Syrians, who can be deprived of Dutch citizenship. It's not a light measure. It is a very heavy measure, but it is a logical one, which we must fight against people who have quite clearly turned away from the Dutch legal system. In the view of the CDA Group, it is absolutely justified that the expensive rights and obligations associated with our nationality should be abolished. We have understood very well that we also agree that it is an additional preventive measure, which, in addition to all other measures, serves national security, as it also removes the Dutch right of access to Dutch territory. As far as we have understood, it also has another advantage. I am waiting for the change of Presidents to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u114	This bill has another advantage: these people, whose nationality has been taken away, are also classified as undesirable strangers. Of course, the legislative proposal is aimed at preventing return, but if the hate fighters do get back, criminal law will eventually arise in order to secure them, I am thinking here of Article 197 of the Treaty of Rome. The latter is something the CDA has consistently argued for. It is still not possible to bring every Syrian into detention at this time. The bill passed in the First Chamber now sees that this does happen, but only after a conviction. The bar is set very high. As we understand it, this legislative proposal before us can be very meaningful, given the return of the jihad fighters, in order to enclose them. We would like to have this confirmed by the Minister. It is important for the Minister here today to stress that the combination is something he also intends to do. There is, however, a margin clause, also in the Foreigner's Act. The Minister states in the documents that he assumes that nationality, when withdrawn, will always be followed by the declaration of non-discrimination. Another situation, he writes, will not arise. Can the Minister explain this in more detail, especially given that the explanatory statement also mentions the right to family life? That could be the exception. When we look at it, we think: who has withdrawn from this family life? That's the one who left for Syria, isn't it? We would like to see this clarified. Have we understood that, in the end, a legal basis is being set up to put people who return into detention? We have indicated that good wine needs time. But wine can sometimes be treated in a certain way during ripening, which makes it not entirely ideal anymore. That is what happened with this proposal. We do not think it is perfect on a number of points. We have tabled amendments to that effect. We also have a few questions. For the CDA group, it is important that a number of important conditions are met before someone can ultimately be deprived of Dutch citizenship. Those conditions are described neatly in the explanatory memorandum: conduct and de facto acts. People must have actually hooked up. So these are two broad conditions, which we can consider in conjunction with each other. It disappoints us that "behaviour" has been chosen. Surely it is also possible that one behavior alongside the other is sufficient to allow the Minister to balance interests on the basis of which Dutch citizenship can be deprived? With an amendment, we want to ensure that it does not necessarily involve more than one behavior. If someone has connected, by means of actual actions, and is then on social media with a kalashnikov, then there is one behavior, but given the total factual constellation, could you still have sufficient ground to withdraw from the Netherlands? The Minister has made a careful assessment: there are two conditions. Couldn't you limit that one to "one or more behaviors" instead of "behaviors"? Mind you, those factual acts are also necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u115	How does Mrs Van Toorenburg intend to weigh up if there is only one behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u116	That is exactly the example I gave: if someone on social media appears clearly in the picture with a kalashnikov, perhaps with dramas in the background, in Syria. The explanatory statement makes it very clear that this must be combined with factual acts on the basis of which it can be described as belonging to a terrorist organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u117	I hear in your answer a reference to a photo or a video, so a single behavior. This must then be combined with a factual act. Then there's more than one behavior, isn't there? I can't imagine you being able to make a careful assessment if there's one photo or video. Later it can be seen that that is not right, that there is more information, for example, that someone has been forced to, for example, that there is a different context. You'll always have to include the context. Don't we have a single behavior on a very slippery plane? After all, errors in the assessment can sneak up quickly. We'll have no legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u118	No, I refer Mrs Swinkels to the explanatory statement and the law, which clearly states that there must be conduct, i.e. plurality, and factual acts. Those are two things: behaviour and de facto actions. We say that you should speak of one or more behaviors, combined with actual actions. So I'm not taking these actual actions out. You have to have a total. Sometimes there are actual actions and behaviours. The Minister explained the distinction in the explanatory memorandum. I don't think the bar should be set any higher. In fact, you should have three. That's why we say take that out. It can also be one very serious behaviour that combines with factual acts that allows the Minister to determine, on the basis of an interest balance, that a person's nationality is taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u119	Mrs Swinkels, I see you want to interrupt again, but we're doing the interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u120	I'm just making a final remark. I wonder which behaviors are not actual acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u121	I leave it to Mrs Van Toorenburg whether she wants to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u122	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I do not need to remind Mrs Swinkels three times of the explanatory statement. Twice, I thought it was enough. The minister writes that he thinks he should use the law several times a year. He himself speaks from zero to ten times a year. This raises questions, because we believe that 240 jihadists have travelled from the Netherlands, most of whom have dual nationality. In theory, this law could therefore be applied to all these persons. Then why does the Minister expect to use this law only in one, two, three, four to ten cases, especially in view of the fact that we know that 48 people are on the national terrorist list? Koenders explained that to the Chamber nicely. Well, that's special to me. If there were 48 people on that list, wouldn't you at least expect these 48 people to be taken from nationality? I come to another point, which is also covered in our amendment. That also brings me to a brief discussion of the amendments. But I find that I am a little too enthusiastic about the page of my text. I have one important point before I move on to the amendments. The Minister also describes that this law does not actually apply until someone is on the territory where the battle is being fought, and not when someone is on the way there and is in another country. That's what the CDA group is surprised about. Someone may be outside the Dutch territory, but as we understand it, this law cannot be invoked until someone has arrived where he wants to carry out his terrorist acts. Could it not also be that there is not yet, but that it has already committed itself to certain behaviours? Wouldn't it be possible for you to apply this law? We would like to hear that from the Minister. Another point the Minister is discussing is the following. The Minister does not intend to contact the country of nationality of the same person prior to the withdrawal of the Dutch nationality. I understand the reason for not doing so in advance, because that is a kind of warning. However, it is in line with the preventive nature of the law. Actually, I don't quite get it. I would also like to know from the Minister whether he will do so afterwards, in order to ensure that the country is aware that Dutch nationality has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mrs Van Tongeren has a question for you on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u124	I'm so listening to the CDA's argument and then I wonder what's going on here. If this is a good law for the Netherlands, would this be a good law for Belgium, for France, for Spain, for Morocco and so on? Where would these people who lose their nationality go? How do we help to make the territory of the Netherlands not only sec but also, say, Western Europe or wider, other countries in the world safer? Surely it is the main goal, including the CDA, to ensure that people can live and live in peace and security?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u125	That is why I said at the outset that this is an additional preventive measure. I'm gonna take a few aspects out of it. We, too, believe that you should prevent people from going. You even have to stop them from radicalizing. If they go, we have to help make sure it's safe there. That is why we send our soldiers, with pain in our hearts but motivated, to that, so that they can fight where they are really needed, that is to say in Syria; we do not want them to fly away from the border. All that kind of stuff matters. At any rate, when people have done terrible things there and also have Dutch nationality, we do not want them to return because they are returning here to commit an attack. They return because they are aimed at this, as is shown by the report of the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator. That is what we have in mind. If that person does not have Dutch nationality, it could be so much less easy for him to enter other Western countries, Western European countries. Because he doesn't have that passport anymore. He no longer has a passport from the Schengen area. This could help to ensure that someone does not end up in those countries either. So Mrs Van Tongeren is absolutely right when she says that this law alone does not make the world a safer place. No, it isn't. That is what we need all the laws together, with sensible balance of interests. We must also ensure that we secure them when they return. If they are Dutch nationals but elsewhere, we must ensure that they do not return with the reasons for attacking them. It could only happen in such a way that they do not have these reasons for the countries they are going to. That is what we hope to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u126	A follow-up question, Mrs Van Tongeren. If the answer can be a little shorter, we will go through this debate a little faster. That might be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u127	If I understand correctly, these people are very dangerous to Dutch security and perhaps also dangerous to the safety of other Western countries, but what they are doing outside the Western countries, the CDA does not find it a problem; that has to be solved there. In the eyes of the CDA, these people can best be deradicalized and resocialised outside Europe, after the Dutch nationality has been taken away. It'll make us all safer. Is that the reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u128	Mrs Van Tongeren... I mean Mrs Van Toorenburg. I do not want to give you the floor for the third time, Mrs Van Tongeren, because Mrs Swinkels was not allowed to do so just now. So we're really going to see Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u129	I can hardly give a short answer, but then it has to be done: no, they are not going to be safer there. But the reason they want to return to the Netherlands is to make an attack here. This means that we want to prevent them from being Dutch nationals and going under the radar here. We must then do everything we can to ensure that it does not happen there, by taking them out there. Absolutely. It is also fine to ensure that they are prosecuted when they return, to assist other countries so that they can be prosecuted and to share AIVD information. That's all fine. But we do not want these people to return to the Netherlands motivated. That is one small link in the total palette of prevention. I had already mentioned another point, namely that I would like to be informed afterwards to the country of which the person also has the nationality of being abducted from Dutch nationality and why that happened. We don't want the game that someone comes to the Netherlands again and we hear him come but we don't know why. I don't think that's a good idea. It is therefore necessary to ensure that we have resolved this. Then that point is addressed as well. My group has tabled a number of amendments. I have already discussed one in detail, namely the amendment on behaviour, so I am not going to discuss it again. However, I would like to point out that the CDA considers it a rather bizarre construction that the minister who, for reasons of participation in terrorism of the worst kind, deprives someone of his Dutch identity, then brings his own appeal against his own decision. We believe that the person concerned should do so personally, either through family or a lawyer. In any event, the responsibility for the appeal and for paying the costs of the Registry must lie with that person. The normal line of administrative law should also apply here: you pay and then you can sue; if you are told right then you get your money back. That's how we do it. That is how we do it in all areas of administrative law, and I think it is important that we do so here too. The Minister has already rejected our amendment to this point in the written round. He said a judge should always look at it. Absolutely; everyone always has to have access to justice, so do we. There's that access. The decision shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. It's online and online, apparently these people are very useful, so it's all over the place right now. Moreover, the Minister writes in the note on the basis of the report that he considers himself very capable of making the assessments. He writes: weighing the interests of the protection of national security against individual interests of concerned is, in my opinion, an excellent task to be carried out under the responsibility of the Minister. We fully agree with that. Then if you don't agree with that consideration, you can go to court. That is a very healthy way of doing things. So if someone wants to sue against the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, that is possible. This can be done in our rule of law, but on our own initiative and at our own expense, according to the CDA. We really do not need to be more creamy than the Pope when it comes to individuals who have wanted to overthrow this rule of law with all the violence. They have turned away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u130	Can I have Mrs Van Toorenburg's reaction to the following situation? Someone's in Syria or Iraq. His Dutch citizenship is withdrawn. That decision does not reach him, because the Official Journal is not available there and there is no postal service. Next, the Minister's ability to bring an action of his own motion lapses, so that at least one judge will look at it. Can I have Mrs Van Toorenburg's reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u131	Yeah, that's how we look at it. I can give a huge treatise on it, but that doesn't make you happy, Mr. President. We do believe that if you have turned away from Dutch society, you can take note of that decision. We're talking about it, and everyone should know the law. If you are taken from your nationality, you should be aware of that. You can appeal that. If you've left for Syria and decided to fight in the desert and you're not aware of the consequences, that's not the problem of the Dutch rule of law you turned away from. I would like to add that we must not forget that we always had a construction before that, namely by law. I have never seen a proposal, not even from D66, in which we tried very hard to put all this together, for example in a situation where someone went into foreign military service and lost his Dutch identity. We didn't have the arrangement at the time that the minister himself was appealing. I've never heard D66 about that, but now that we're doing this, D66 may have woken up. However, I do not think it is necessary at all to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u132	I find it very interesting how you feel about the Dutch rule of law. Someone sitting there at the moment is still a Dutch national and may lose all the protection offered to him by the Dutch rule of law due to a misstep. Is he, in the CDA's view, disloyal and rather stateless?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u133	I would like to ask everyone to speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u134	I didn't say "Stainless." That is not the issue, because I have just said that these are people of dual nationality. This law is designed for a specific target group, namely people who have completely turned away from Dutch society, who are fighting in Syria and who eventually decide to come back to commit an attack. We believe that even they should still have access to a judge. But we do not want the Minister to take a decision which we consider to be very reasonable, and then to go to court and get another Duyvis stamp with "okay" to stand up for his own interests, while in this case someone has clearly turned away from Dutch society. I just don't think that's necessary, because I think we're gonna freak out. That is why we are not in favour of it and have amended it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u135	Does the CDA recognise that even the best informed minister might make a mistake sometime?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u136	Yeah, it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u137	The CDA describes people who have turned their backs and committed horrific acts, without a trace of doubt or perhaps a mistake. Anyone who is not in that country for another reason, but in a neighbouring country, may lose their nationality due to a mistake by the intelligence services or otherwise, which is about the heaviest thing you can lose. The CDA proposes to amend even such a test afterwards. In fact, it is said that it is almost impossible in this area that a wrong decision is ever made, while we are fallible in a lot of other areas. Otherwise, it is a pity to say to someone: you may not have been in Syria, but you have lost your nationality; unfortunately but then you should have read the Official Journal on the Internet or somehow found a lawyer to file an appeal; weird that you didn't manage to do all this in that place, but that's too bad. How does the CDA view the possibility of a ministerial rather than a judicial error in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u138	There are then two roads that can be walked. First of all, one can object to it and appeal against it. That is also the procedure proposed by the Minister himself. In addition, we reviewed the total Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap to find out if there are any recovery possibilities at all. Anyone who is not a Dutch citizen can go to court in the Netherlands to indicate that he is entitled to do so. Luckily, if a serious mistake is made on an occasional basis, recovery measures will still be possible, even within a few weeks by means of an emergency procedure. We now have them in the law and they could therefore also be of service to this person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u139	Your first question was very brief, so I will give you one final follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u140	If you are abroad without Dutch nationality and without sufficient resources, it is particularly difficult to go to a Dutch judge. So I do not think that this is an adequate answer for something as fundamental as the taking away of a nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u141	Then GroenLinks has to come up with a proposal to change the law, because that is how it is now regulated in Dutch law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u142	In criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u143	No, in article 17 of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. It explains how the system works and how you can always appeal. There are a number of other provisions that allow this to happen. We have taken that into account. That is why we know that in very isolated cases there is always a solution. Perhaps the Minister could explain them himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u144	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch who join a terrorist organisation are forfeiting any right to their Dutch citizenship. Of course, they deserve to lose it. It is therefore a good thing that this bill finally comes forward, but for VNL it is too little, too late. To start with the latter: it has all taken a very long time. This bill was already announced in August 2014. In the intervening period we saw several terrorist attacks in Europe that could have taken place in the Netherlands. The pace of this cabinet is still of little urgency. The content is also thin. First of all, we find it completely unacceptable that terrorists of this minister should not be made stateless. In our view, statelessness is the problem of the terrorist, not of our society. Anyone who chooses terror must lose the Netherlands. This applies both to people with a double nationality and to people with a single nationality. Not for nothing do other countries, such as the United Kingdom and Italy, have loss grounds that lead to statelessness. Also under the existing legislation one can become stateless when joining a foreign military service, as also happened with Dutchmen who fought for Germany during the Second World War. Why doesn't the Minister build on this possibility? I'd like to get a response. In addition, the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship can lead to statelessness in the case of fraudulent acquisition of nationality. Although this is justified, it is of course strange that fraud outweighs joining a terrorist organisation. Furthermore, it cannot be explained that nationals of jihadists who have since returned are not withdrawn. It is precisely these people who are on our territory who pose a major threat to national security. We therefore support the amendment tabled by the SGP and the VVD to withdraw Dutch citizenship in this case too. VNL, however, wants to go one step further. This bill should also allow persons who engage in terrorist activities but have not yet left the Netherlands to lose their nationality. We have tabled an amendment on this. This is thus fundamentally different from what the VVD wants and what is regulated by other laws. This is an administrative measure, not a criminal one. It must also be ensured that those who join a terrorist organisation lose their nationality. However, in this legislative proposal, the Minister has only the power to do so. He must, of course, be obliged to withdraw. The Minister must of his own motion bring an action against his own decision if a terrorist or counsellor himself does not do so. We can be brief on that. As far as we are concerned, it is absurd that a minister should appeal against his own decision to withdraw from the Netherlands and that the State would also pay for this. We would like to see this point amended. We will therefore support the CDA initiative in this regard. The same applies to the amendment which regulates a single conduct which may also lead to the withdrawal of nationality. One photo or video can already prove that a jihad warrior has travelled and is outside the Netherlands. Several behaviors are not necessary in this case. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I'm rounding up. This bill is linked to the previous bill which allows jihadists to lose their Dutch identity after criminal conviction. As far as VNL is concerned, this should also apply to recruiters and directors of organisations that facilitate violence preachers with terrorist ties. 345 radical Muslims are constantly being watched in the Netherlands. The AIVD warns that jihadists in the Netherlands are actively looking for weapons. Further tightening up of this legislation is therefore urgently needed. We therefore ask the Minister to give a positive opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u145	Mr. Chairman. This bill governs the power of the Minister of Security and Justice to withdraw from the Netherlands without a prior irrevocable criminal conviction, if a person's behaviour shows that he or she is joining a public-listed terrorist organisation which participates in an international armed conflict and poses a threat to national security. In order to prevent effective return to the Netherlands, the person concerned is declared an undesirable stranger. This is one of the measures resulting from the action programme against jihadism. GroenLinks doesn't get very excited about it. The greatest challenge in the fight against international terrorism may not be to combat real concrete threats. This is where our men and women from the intelligence and security services, the police and the justice system sit. They fight the threat as well and as evil as they do. The biggest challenge is: how do we maintain, under this threat, our most important Western achievement, our democratic rule of law? That rule of law is not a static fact. New developments, progressive understanding and technological progress require a review by the legislator; sufficient basic principles underlying the rule of law. GroenLinks considers this to be self-evident, but is it not the inevitable core that government intervention fits a substantive judicial test or that government action is acceptable? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The rule of law was the eighteenth-century answer to the ancien régime: total lawlessness, absolute arbitrariness and merciless force majeure of a government that did not comply with something like rule of law. The first thing that was introduced was that everyone, including everyone, should be able to find protection from government intervention. That protection comes from an independent judge. Of course, we have to vary according to the extent of the state's action, according to the type of law: private law, criminal law or administrative law, according to the seriousness of the facts and increasingly to the person of the person concerned. There is an obvious threat of foreign warriors that we must be afraid of. This calls for decisive, but above all legally legitimised, public intervention. The measures mentioned in the action programme against jihadism are without exception administrative measures. Without prior judicial review, the Board, the Minister of Security and Justice, may take far-reaching measures to reverse a threat to national security. The Secretary of State for Security and Justice will have an enormous dominant position. For example, before the Mayreces, we talked about administrative anti-terrorism measures such as bans on contact, territory and exit. The Minister for Security and Justice will be the strong man, who is in fact only subject to marginal judicial control afterwards. Admittedly, this bill provides for an exhilarating marginal judicial review. The administrative judge weighs all the interests involved and decides whether the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is justified in reasonable terms. However, this is still something other than a substantive assessment of the concrete complex of facts. I would like a response from the Minister as to why that difference is justified. GroenLinks has difficulty with the chosen legal construction for the current anti-terrorism package. The Council of State makes the striking statement: we are not convinced of the added value of these proposed measures in relation to the current criminal law possibilities. Similarly, the Council of State continues to be unclear as to whether a possible contribution of the proposed measures to the protection of security outweighs the surrender of criminal jurisdictions. Last but not least, the Council of State is concerned about the proportionality of the proposed radical measure in the light of the limited scope for legal protection for the person concerned. Straight on all fronts wrong, the Council of State seems to be yelling at us. The Minister estimates that there may be two to four cases a year. If we take that into account, I would like to know once again from him what is most important now to continue this against the firm opinion of the Council of State. Professor Henny Sackers, Professor of Administrative Penalty Law at Radboud University Nijmegen, says he is deeply concerned about the ease in which the legislator uses administrative law in response to a criminal offence. Many administrative measures are ultimately disguised criminal interventions, says this professor. I see the Minister shaking his head and I would like a further explanation of that later. According to GroenLinks this also applies to this bill. What is the precise basis on which Dutch citizenship can be withdrawn and access to the Netherlands can be denied? According to the legal text, it is sufficient that there are conducts showing that someone has joined, for example, IS or Al-Qaeda abroad. Then what are the behaviours that show that someone has joined such an organisation and how is that tested? This is a variation on terrorist and international crimes, which we rightly criminalised in the Criminal Code just ten years ago. Were they wrongly in the Code of Criminal Law and should we have done it directly through administrative law or are they on trial in the Code of Criminal Law? If that's the case, why the administrative route now? GroenLinks believes that the body of administrative competence we are talking about here is a criminal charge, which the criminal court and not the public administration have to judge. The criminal court is the one who has to form an independent substantive judgment and who ultimately decides whether this massive sanction of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship fits with the accusation that the person concerned can be made and is presumed to pose a threat to Dutch public order and security. We have just heard an interrupting debate between colleagues from D66 and the VVD. D66 quoted figures showing that far from all returners pose an immediate threat to national security. The CDA said that it was not, but then did not come up with a clear set of figures showing that 100% of the returners are now being assessed as a threat to national security. For example, there are more legal obstacles that are being removed too lightly. I refer to the problem, and I have already mentioned it in an interrupting debate about the difference between people of one nationality and people of two nationalities. Pragmatically, we can say that people with one nationality cannot do it, so that we do not do it and that people with two nationalities can do it. That is basically that we are pulling our hands off people who grew up or are rooted in our country and ultimately of radicalised men and women. We'll say, "Let's go abroad and fix that." I have not heard from the spokesmen of the VVD and the CDA why these people can better deradicalise in a foreign country, a country where they have no contacts, are not rooted and of which they may not even be able to speak the language. In one of the first debates on the anti-terrorism measures, my former chairman, Mr Bram van Ojik, mentioned this approach 'not exactly a model of international solidarity in the fight against international terrorism'. It is probably not practical either, because, as I will say, chances of successful deradicalisation and resocialisation are scarce. We're not naive. The recent case-law on terrorist offences shows that the criminal court has little to say about providing purely logistical or auxiliary support. That's another reason to take down criminal law. Nevertheless, the whole set of facts and circumstances must be assessed in substance. It is necessary to examine how to interpret the behaviour of the Minister, which makes it clear that someone has joined the armed terrorist struggle abroad. GroenLinks has proposed an immediate judicial test in the plenary session of anti-terrorist administrative measures. We would again like to hear from the Minister why this is not included in the legislative proposal. If such a judgment cannot be awaited because of the serious threat to national security and if the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship immediately removes that threat to the security of the Netherlands, this could happen immediately afterwards. The Minister himself says that he will do so in no more than three or four cases a year. In how many of these cases would it be so urgent that it is really not possible to go ahead with the criminal court with an urgent procedure? Finally. In the fight against terrorism, we must not fall into the trap of sacrificing constitutional achievements because of the threat of hatred and violence of terrorist organisations which ultimately represent the same rightless regime as the Western world has struggled against at the end of the eighteenth century. We must be vigilant against this threat of hatred and violence, but also against the threat that we are gradually restricting prior legal protection against public action, which is deeply affecting citizens' privacy. For GroenLinks, the substantive judicial test of the criminal court is essential in the case of nationality withdrawal and junk declaration. Otherwise, there is a risk of a legal process which appears to be based on the ancien régime in the application of a penalty that was exemplary for that same ancien régime, i.e. lifelong banishment. In the fight against terrorism, let us not take measures that alienate populations from us, which weaken the rule of law of our laws and weaken the freedoms that belong to us all, except for everyone's responsibility for the law. If we do, the terrorists will still win.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u146	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna get my introduction. That might be useful for those who watch at home and lose track or just turn on. This bill regulates one of the measures contained in the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. It is possible that the Dutchmanship will be withdrawn from extravagants who voluntarily enter the military service of a terrorist combat group. Such a battle group shall be considered if it has been listed by the Minister on a list of organisations participating in a national or international armed conflict which pose a threat to national security here. According to the Minister, persons who have joined such an organisation have shown that they do not shy away from violence in the realization of their ideals. They therefore pose a threat to national security upon return, and that return must therefore be prevented. The basis for withdrawal is therefore the danger posed by those who do not shy away from violence in order to achieve their ideals. No prior criminal conviction is required for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. It is a preventive measure designed to eliminate the threat of terrorist activity in the Netherlands or one of the other countries of the Kingdom. Mr President, you will not be surprised that my group agrees with this. It is good that it is possible for travellers to withdraw the Dutch citizenship without a criminal conviction. However, there is an exception in the legislative proposal. There shall be no withdrawal if this goes against a criminal investigation or the importance of criminal prosecution. The Dutchmanship is not automatically lost, or automatically lost. It must be a decision of the Minister. The explanatory statement states that there must be a "one-sided moment of weighing'. The same explanatory statement also explains the need for the bill: "Attributed to jihadist organisations, they are violently turning against Western countries, including the Netherlands. People who have joined these organisations have shown that they do not shy away from violence in the realization of their ideals. The fact that they consider the use of force legitimate in realising their ideals is already apparent from their connection with such an organisation. On return, these persons constitute a threat to national security. Their return must therefore be prevented." The question to the Minister is why there is a moment of weighting. These people have joined a listed terrorist organisation and, according to the Minister himself, they are an immediate threat to our national security. The Minister wants urgent action and therefore does not want to wait for a criminal conviction. In my group's view, if you go along with this line, it can be no different than that these people should lose the Dutch citizenship on the ground that the minister himself calls national security, for which these people are an immediate danger. That is why we have tabled an amendment to automatically abolish the Dutch citizenship after departure abroad and join a terrorist organisation designated by the Minister. In addition to the criticism that has just been expressed, my group also has a number of questions about the legislative proposal. How is people dealing with outsiders when they have been staying outside the Netherlands for 10 years on a continuous basis? According to Article 68, second paragraph of the Foreigner's Act, where there is not one of the grounds referred to in Article 67, paragraph 1 of the same law, the undesirable statement shall be removed. As far as my group is concerned, it cannot be that someone can return to the Netherlands after ten years. Does the Foreigner's Act provide for this or is there a gap in the legislation on this issue? If so, will the Minister fix this? In the event of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, the Minister shall, of his own motion, inform the court of the decision which he has taken, with the result that the person concerned is deemed to have brought an action. My question to the Minister is whether this appeal under Article 6:16 of the General Administrative Law Act has suspensive effect. If there is suspensive effect, then I assume that the Minister in the legislative proposal still provides that there is no suspensive effect in these cases, because there is an imminent danger. It is therefore, of course, strange to have a suspensive effect on an action brought. As I said, the basis is the immediate threat to national security in the return of the person concerned, and this does not include suspensive effects. I have a point of criticism about the Rules of Procedure. According to the Minister, this is not due because it will not be met in many cases, because the person is abroad, which makes contact difficult. No registry fee shall be levied for the lodging of any appeal. Why does the Minister decide this beforehand? In fact, why is this in the bill? My group believes that this is unnecessary and, in fact, rather weak, because if the person concerned takes up an attorney, brings up his own appeal or maybe family, who can also be an interested party, does so on his behalf, then contact through the family or the lawyer is perfectly possible and then we simply have to pay the right of registry. A hard-working taxpayer should, too. In any case, we agree with the explanatory statement in the Amendment No. 15 by Mr Van Toorenburg. It says that people who turn their backs on our rule of law because they fundamentally disagree with our standards and values, not at the expense of that same society, at the expense of taxpayers, should be able to sue against their own actions, their own choice. Furthermore, it appears that this law applies only to persons who are abroad, while a person who is staying in the Netherlands may also be involved in agreeing to the objectives of and carrying out de facto acts for a terrorist organisation. The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is equally in the interest of national security? It is strange that, in these cases, the Minister considers that a ban on territory, a ban on contact and an exit ban, as contained in the bill we voted on yesterday, or that it is sufficient. That is certainly strange because, as has already been mentioned in an interruption debate, according to the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands (DTN) there is a great threat of stopped persons. I prepared an amendment on this, but Mr Van der Staaij was just before me. The amendment in part No. 8 can therefore count on the support of my group. I would like to point out once again that, contrary to what it itself has always said, my group does not think that it is doing everything possible to combat terrorism. People who want to go to ISIS territory, you have to let go. They have taken the decision to join. I also refer briefly to what the AIVD has included in the report "Life at ISIS, the myth unraveled." If you still choose to do so, then you must bear the consequences of that choice. That must be against the fact that you can no longer enter the Netherlands. In addition to withdrawing Dutch citizenship and declaring an undesirable stranger, it is also necessary to re-introduce the "old-fashioned" border controls. I use quotes, but Schengen dates back to 1985, so it's not that old-fashioned. There are also some border posts. You can humanize them. I don't say "men," because then some ladies might get angry again. In any case, border controls must be restored. Reasons why people cannot be declared undesirable to the Netherlands are, for example, Article 8 of the ECHR and the European Convention on Nationality, which provides that a person should not become stateless. The position of my group on the ECHR is well known: we consider our Constitution sufficient. I shall confine myself to a question to the Minister in response to a position taken by his predecessor, Minister Opstelten. He had promised to raise the issue of statelessness in relation to the European Convention on Nationality with the Council of Europe. Did the last minister do this? Or did the current minister do this? If so, what was the outcome? As far as my group is concerned, national security is the key to preventing statelessness. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u147	Mr. Chairman. Once again we are talking about a law that deals with the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. The government is putting forward this bill because, as she herself says, she has to fight jihadism. That is, of course, a very noble goal in itself. Where there is terrorism, there is suffering and human rights violations. If the rule of law is in danger, then it is the government's duty to act. The SP supports large parts of the approach to jihadism, but on other parts it is critical, for example on the subject we are discussing today. I agree with the contributions made by previous speakers, such as Mrs Swinkels, Mr Segers and Mrs Van Tongeren. I would like to give the following general qualification: this law is once again an example of protecting the rule of law by partially abolishing it. I'd like to explain that theorem. It was interesting to read the piece by Mr Groenendijk, emeritus professor of legal sociology, and Mr Rodrigues, professor of immigration law. In their text, entitled "Terrorism Fighting with Covered Discrimination by the Government," I read point by point what I myself had already brought in a previous bill dealing with the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship (34016), on among others article 134a Penal Code. More about this supposed discrimination later. If possible, the Council of State's comprehensive critical text in its opinion on this law is even more interesting. For example, the council has serious doubts about the effectiveness of the law. One fears even a counterproductive effect. There is a fear of a lack of individual legal protection of suspects. There is doubt about the answer to the question whether the collection of data, also very important for the Netherlands, will not suffer greatly from the planned legislative amendment. They rebuke the apparently almost completely absent international cooperation and actually wonder whether the Netherlands is putting one of its problems, or at least common problems, on the plate of others. Mrs Van Tongeren said that very clearly. The Council of State does not really leave any trace of the proposal. I would add to this criticism the discriminatory nature of the proposal and the assumption, in my group's view, that the taking away of a person's nationality should not be called punishment but a purely administrative act. First of all, I will focus on effectiveness. Does the law actually contribute to a safer Netherlands? Is he reducing the chance of an attack in our country? With the best will in the world, I cannot discover any added value in this bill compared to what is possible with the current provisions in our criminal law. Indeed, as a result of recent critical reports by the NCTV and the AIVD, relapsers are already being closely monitored. That is right, because it has indeed been shown in the past year that those returning now are more dangerous than those returning earlier. They are also smaller in numbers and easier to monitor in this respect. Returners are being watched, detained where necessary, prosecuted where possible and where appropriate punished and therefore locked up. Preventive detention is possible. The question is therefore whether it will be possible to prevent people from our country from having any further effects. After all, illegal entry remains possible, and unfortunately it is equally possible to commit attacks by others who have never left. I do not want to be blind to the fear of a counterproductive effect, where the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship and the junk declaration against which the extortionist has limited legal means will prevent jihadists from withdrawing from a terrorist organisation. This, while the AIVD nevertheless states that, although there is a greatly increased threat, not all returners can be said to be dangerous. May I have the Minister's response to these points? The fact that a data subject will not be able to be in the Netherlands during the handling of his or her case, plus the fact that the information on which the removal of nationality is based will not be known to him or her in many cases which is secretly restricted his or her access to the law. In the case of a serious measure such as the withdrawal of nationality, this is a serious deficiency in the eyes of the SP. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. I would also like to comment on the international part of this debate. It is precisely with this law that the Netherlands does not operate on an island and is not alone in the world. Other countries are suffering consequences. If, for example, a young man of both Moroccan and Dutch nationality, he will still be Moroccan, provided that Morocco does not have the same procedure and starts. Has the Netherlands entered into consultation with the countries known to have Dutch jihadists as well? If not, why not? If so, how did they react? What forms of cooperation does the Minister see in this regard in the fight against terrorism and the protection of human lives? Finally, I come to the inequality that will result from this law. I cannot be deprived of my nationality, at least not yet. I sincerely hope that will continue to be the case. I hope that a majority of the parties in this Chamber will not ever think that we can make people standless. But that of a person of dual nationality can be taken away. The Council of State leaves this point largely untouched, which I find deeply regrettable, but the SP does not do so. Mr Groenendijk and Mr Rodrigues, mentioned earlier, do not do this either. They explain again why this kind of injustice of law is not allowed and why it only exacerbates the problems in our country. This kind of inequality of law makes sure that there are real Dutch people and Dutch people of a different kind, with a different status. A lesser status, I regret to say, which offers less protection. That must not be the message of a minister of security and justice. It may be imagined that the SP Group has serious doubts about this law. Although the Minister will answer our questions this evening, our group is not inclined to support this law. Far from it. Fighting terrorism: yes, absolutely, but not through symbolic legislation that attacks important principles of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u148	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet presented a balanced and balanced action plan against radicalisation and jihadism some time ago. Action after measure now comes into the Chamber to be dealt with. I must say that this measure is the most difficult measure for the PvdA as a result of the action plan. Taking away someone's nationality is far-reaching, very far-reaching. That can't happen without some serious arguments. By the way, there are some tough arguments. There are good arguments, both for and against. I'll deal with it immediately. First of all, I agree with the principle. It's about the long-standing principle, there's nothing new under the sun that if you turn against your own country, you could lose your nationality. You'll be a threat to the national security of that country. Despite all the puffy rhetoric that I sometimes hear, I would like to point out once again that for many years now the administrative judge has been reviewing the measure, afterward, just as the administrative judge reviews other very serious administrative measures. I was a judge of foreign origin myself. I'm just gonna say it again, and sometimes it was about life and death. A stranger said, if I have to go back now, it will cost me my life. That's what you're gonna test as a judge in retrospect. The downside is also known. Dutchmen who fought against Franco and the Republic before the Second World War in Spain have remained stateless in the Netherlands for decades. Fortunately, this has been repaired with the treaty banning statelessness. You're right. It is a step too far to say to people: you have nowhere in a place in the world where you are allowed to stay. We shouldn't go that far. It is the exception to the rule that you may lose your nationality when you turn against your own country in such a way that national security is at stake. In that sense, it is not legally discriminatory. It's an exception, a protection. In practice, of course, it is more difficult; I will come back to that immediately. One argument for the bill is that it can serve national security. That argument weighs heavily on my group. A second argument is that the proposed amendment can work preventively in two ways. Firstly, the proposed amendment could lead to someone staying in Syria or Iraq, as the VVD explains. Secondly, someone who has not yet been radicalised but is still in doubt can realize that the stakes are very high when he or she leaves for Syria. This, too, is likely to prevent exit. Another advantage of the proposed amendment may be that it provides for a gap. The amendment can prevent terrorists from returning when we do not have an adequate criminal record. There are also a number of arguments against the amendment. In practice, it only works for people with dual nationality. I think that's a tough argument. Because what does that say now in Dutch society where the tensions are already high and people are already right to ask: can I be here, am I included? This does not contribute to this, I ask the Minister. This is therefore a danger for the further removal of groups of people in Dutch society. The final point is whether there will be any Kafkaesque situations surrounding legal protection. That is why I have tabled two amendments. One amendment contains a horizontal clause, just like the Administrative Measures Act on National Security two weeks ago. Fortunately, that was maintained in the vote yesterday. My amendment refers to a five-year horizon. This means that if this law is passed, we will not adopt it for eternity as usual, but we will ask ourselves every five years whether the law is still necessary. We do not do this on the naive assumption that the threat of terrorism will be gone within five years, but on the assumption that you must constantly think critically and ask whether the law is still necessary. If the answer to that question is no, then that law must lapse. Why? Because the law is so far-reaching. The second amendment I tabled strengthens supervision. This is not about individual supervision, because that is what the administrative judge is for, but about system supervision, as we have the CTIVD in the intelligence service. That seems to me to be an instance that can do this. He can see how the law works in several cases. Is it true that legal protection is a good thing? How does this work out in terms of possible discriminatory effect? Is it even proportional? Was it indeed true that the criminal route was not effective? This should not be about individual cases, because I do not want that committee to repeat the work of the judge. The question is how that law generally works when we have a number of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u149	I have a question for clarification. The first amendment referred to by Mr Recourt concerns a horizontal clause. Yesterday we voted on the National Security Administration Act. The amendment tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and myself did not make it. That amendment states that it is a temporary law and that we want to know first whether the law works. If it turns out the law doesn't work, we're gonna break the law. How should I see this amendment? Does Mr Recourt say: we check if that law cuts wood and then let the law lapse, yes or no? Or does Mr Recourt actually say that the law should lapse anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u150	No, of course not, certainly not the last one. Of course, you have to ask yourself in advance if it's still necessary. An evaluation must therefore be carried out. I am concerned that this law does not become an automatic law and therefore does not automatically go on for days. I just said this. Because of its depth, the law may now be necessary. It may be plausible that it is now necessary, but if it is not, the law must disappear. That is why a horizon clause is a much better guarantee than an agreement: we are going to evaluate and perhaps abolish the law. Why is that last one so undesirable? Because the practice shows that we never do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u151	Let me be clear: that could also mean that we can simply enforce the law if we all see that this law does indeed have effect and work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u152	Yes, I expect that to happen once, twice or three times. Unfortunately, I have to say, because I think this is a long breath struggle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u153	I have a very short question. How heavy does the amendment with the PvdA horizon weigh, so the amendment that regulates that the law is temporary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u154	Heavy. But your question is probably: do you vote against the law if the amendment is not adopted? I cannot answer that question at this time. I said in my introduction that this is a law on which opinions in my group differ widely. This law is hard on us. I'm going back to the group and I can't look at that until then. In view of yesterday's votes, I also have good hope that the amendment will succeed. Then I'll look at you, too, Mrs. Swinkels. Your group chairman, including your group, but I have to do so through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u155	Then what is the opinion of your group, in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u156	I have made these two amendments for a reason. I believe that these two amendments are necessary in order to identify and address the potential dangers in the law in good time if they are to be realised. For example, I want to monitor the discriminatory effect, not on individual cases, but simply system oversight. At the moment when that practice becomes, so at the time of the adoption of the amendment, I am already somewhat more reassured about the criticism that we have also included in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u157	Sorry, maybe I'm not very sharp today. That's why I'm asking my question again. It says in the amendment that this law will be reversed five years after entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u158	Yeah, that's a horizon. If you don't do something, it'll stop. So you're gonna need an active extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u159	But would it not be a better way to check first whether the law has worked and only then to determine whether it is due to expire or not, in line with the amendment that we voted here yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u160	Then I've just misunderstood you. No, because that's not a horizon. A horizon determination means: we stop, unless.... I think that's a better guarantee than "we're moving on, unless..." I understand now that, in your opinion, it was the last.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u161	Mr Recourt, you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u162	I'm gonna keep going, and I'm gonna come to my questions. My first question concerns litigation. How exactly are you supposed to attend your own trial? Can we do that at all? It doesn't seem so, but you can, as I understood from the Council of State, request suspension of junk declaration and possibly travel in the Netherlands. That's a little crazy, too, because you're a threat to national security. Should that be under the condition of detention? Are you sure you can do that? Can you ask for a laissez-passer on that condition? Is there a guarantee of withdrawal by the country of origin? Or should we just conclude that you can never be at your own trial? The second question I am asking about this procedure is what about exculpatory information. How is it collected when there is no contact with the data subject? There is also a good chance that there is no contact with the person concerned. Suppose you, as a person concerned, become aware that a trial has been conducted, can you then be included in your own process? When the process is completed on the basis of new facts and circumstances, can you restart a procedure? Is there any possibility of revision? I can imagine you saying: yes, this was about me, but I actually have other information; I was one of those very few who just did something different. Reality is always just as crazy as we can imagine. In short, how do we avoid kafkaesque situations? It is said that it is not both criminal law and deprived of nationality, but that it is usually one of the two. This means that nationality is not taken away so quickly at the time of a criminal investigation. Does the Minister have a concrete example in which criminal law does not provide any comfort, that you can think in advance that you are therefore choosing to take away nationality? I can imagine. That is why I can also imagine the need for this law, but I have not yet seen a concrete example. My next question concerns Article 8 of the ECHR, family life, the right to family life. How does this Article relate to the inclusion of the nationality of people who have family life, in particular of minors who have left and who no longer live with their parents. I can imagine that you can rely on Article 8 of the ECHR at the time when finally living together in the Netherlands is made impossible by taking away nationality. How do you prevent an ex-Dutchman, someone who has been deprived of nationality, from returning through the refugee route? After all, the passport throws you overboard and then you ask, hopefully, you don't go in boats anymore to asylum somewhere in Europe. That seems vulnerable to me. Then there's my last question. What happens if the person concerned fears treatment contrary to the ECHR in the country of nationality that remains, for example Morocco? Is that a reason not to withdraw nationality? I have asked a number of questions which I consider relevant and I have mentioned a number of arguments against them, but I would also like to make an argument for them, and that is above all that there is nothing new in principle. We already know the possibility of taking away Dutch citizenship. We already have an administrative test. We're just gonna expand that. I have questions about this, but it is not the case that we are aiming at the rule of law with a big bow in the trash can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u163	There were notable criticisms for GroenLinks in the speech of the PvdA, but I do miss something. The PvdA is a party of international solidarity, which in any case occurs in one of the well-known songs. I was wondering how this law is going to help. Terrorism is an international problem. We must work with other countries to prevent it and punish and re-socialize people who may go that way. How does it help if we deprive people who are rooted in the Netherlands and are born here and who may not know the language of the country of their second passport? So we say: these people are so dangerous that we do not want them in the Netherlands. But we'll put that dangerous problem on the plate of another country. How does this help to unite against the danger of international terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u164	That's not helping; that's very easy. I see the law in such a way that we only apply it in cases where criminal law does not provide any comfort and, above all, we want someone to stay in Syria and Iraq. That doesn't help Syria and Iraq, but the Netherlands does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u165	So knowingly we leave people who we think are so dangerous that they should not stay in the Netherlands on the roof of another country and say: find out, in any other country, or wherever people get through escape routes. So the PvdA says: that is our way of showing international solidarity in the fight against international terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u166	That terrorist, because that's what we're talking about, is already in Syria and Iraq. We're not sending them there, but we're already there of our own free will. At the moment when we have no other way of dealing with a person in criminal law, but who is very dangerous because he can lay bombs here, I think that is a justified consideration. I would have preferred to have said to Syria and Iraq: let them come here when they are not a danger. But if they are a danger, I do consider that to be the consideration. I think it is very brave of GroenLinks to say: let them come here when we cannot deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u167	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u168	No, no. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u169	Mr President, this was a very serious accusation against GroenLinks, as if we were welcoming dangerous terrorists in the Netherlands. That is why the whole debate is about to take place. If, perhaps after the interruption of Mr Segers, I have a small chance of getting back to that, then that seems to me to be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u170	I'm giving you that opportunity now, because you're a little right that this was entrapment. Please proceed with a brief comment, to which Mr Recourt can reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u171	GroenLinks agrees with the Council of State that there is a large arsenal of possibilities to do so within criminal law. We propose that this law be used to test the criminal justice system. If he agrees with the Minister's opinion, this can be done exactly as it is now in this law. So there is no invitation to say in general: then there is nothing we can do about it. I would appreciate it if Mr Recourt could put that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u172	This law, however difficult it may be, does not justify a criminal test in advance because you do not have the time to do so. If that can happen in the Netherlands, there is another law for that. This bill is about people you want them to stay where they are, because you have no criminal law options in the Netherlands. If there are, I have not properly read the explanatory statement. So I think we are talking about two different things. Mrs Van Tongeren says that there is always a criminal possibility that respects national security. If so, we would like to hear it from the Minister; I asked him that question. For the time being, I assume that in a number of cases criminal law does not provide any comfort at the time when people are still there but they pose a great danger to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u173	Thank you, Mr Segers, for your patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u174	I have a question about the relationship between criminal law and administrative law. Mr Recourt says: if criminal law fails, we can always use administrative law. In the law on administrative measures that we voted on on Tuesday, it is exactly the other way around. In the run-up to a criminal trial, you can intervene quickly through administrative law. In the event that the criminal court has reached the ultimate judgment that it is not possible to obtain a conviction and to take away the Dutch citizenship, this can still be done through administrative law. But what justifies that last step when the criminal justice officer reached his verdict in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u175	This is not my reasoning, but Mr Segers'. It's about national security. That was the criterion in the law of two weeks ago and it is again the criterion here. It is not punitive and criminal; we want to prevent attacks. After you have gone criminally to death in the Netherlands, you are not going to invoke administrative law, no, you will do so immediately. That is why the explanatory statement, if I have read it correctly, states that at the time when we conduct criminal investigations with the Dutch government, this measure is unlikely to be imposed. One is not a derivative, with fewer guarantees, of criminal law. It's something else. It is the protection of the Netherlands from attacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u176	If we arrest those who return and there is case law showing that the fact that someone has been there is sufficient to condemn them, how can a measure of administrative law be used? Criminal law already stops people and already condemns them when they return. Then how can this be that extra supplement? I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u177	That is the question I also put to the Minister: give us an example which shows that criminal law is not working. Together, the Christian Union and the PvdA have said, even during previous debates on terrorism, that criminal law should be such that people can't just walk around here when they come back from Syria. That is by far the preferred option. However, I can imagine that you should also take administrative measures, because otherwise you will not be able to guarantee national security. The latter is the primary task of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u178	I come back to Mr Recourt's remark that there is nothing new under the sun and that the rule of law is not set aside by this new law. He is quite right to point out the lack of legal protection of someone who is abroad, in Iraq or Syria, for example, and cannot actually be at his own trial. De facto, the practical problems in this respect mean that the person concerned does not have a say at all at the time when the decision on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is being reviewed. He doesn't need it. That seems to me to be something new in the Dutch rule of law. Does Mr Recourt agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u179	At least it's a matter of concern to me. It is certainly not a point on which I have any comments, because we have for some time been depriving people of Dutch nationality. I find the element that Mrs Swinkels brings in what is the role of the person who is in Syria? - Oh, worrisome. I can imagine, by the way, that at the time you do know that that is actually my question too, you can have a say in the procedure. I also remember a procedure of people living in India who conducted their proceedings with the Dutch administrative judge in Amsterdam through India. It's not impossible, but I do have concerns about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u180	I have a second question. How hard is it going to be for a person himself not to be able to play a significant role when it comes to such a radical measure as the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship? What role does this play for the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u181	It depends a little on the answers. We know the form that people don't know about a trial. I am thinking of the absenteeism procedures in the various jurisdictions. It's just that the moment you get to know about it, you need to be able to have some kind of interference in your own procedure. You still have to be able to put forward your arguments. I asked that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u182	I heard Mr Recourt say, in response to the interruption by Mr Segers, that there is now a gap. The administrative measure contained in this bill ensures that people cannot return to the Netherlands; the criminal proceedings ensure a completely different problem. That's right. I then heard Mr Recourt say that, if criminal proceedings are to be initiated, people can walk around here when they return. This would be the reason for the PvdA to support this bill if I were to go through the line. You can also provide for that hole by allowing administrative detention. I have the next question to ask Mr Recourt. Then why is it not supported? That closes the hole, too. People who return cannot walk freely in the Netherlands and therefore do not commit attacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u183	It is true that this is a solution, but it is not the solution chosen by the Labour Party. Why not? Because administrative detention is a shortcut to the guarantees of criminal law. We don't choose to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u184	That is true, but administrative detention is also an administrative measure, with a....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The administrative measure we are discussing today has a further consequence, namely the loss of Dutch citizenship. That's more serious than that. Does that make Mr Recourt's judgment any different?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u185	No. We are not in favour of depriving anyone of their freedom in an administrative procedure, where we normally do so in criminal proceedings. That is precisely what guarantees of criminal law are needed for. When it comes to taking away Dutch citizenship, you do have those guarantees, albeit afterwards, with the administrative judge. You won't be deprived of your freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u186	I do not share the view of the PvdA Group, expressed here by Mr Recourt, that there is nothing new under the sun with this bill. I think we can see that we are making a firm move to the right with small steps. Unfortunately, I have to hear that this can still count on the support of a left-wing party in my view. But my question concerns Mr Recourt's observation towards Mrs Van Tongeren: we must do so, because we cannot deal with people with criminal law. This bill has a preventive purpose: to prevent people from coming to the Netherlands to commit attacks. That is the objective that I hold on to when I exchange views with this minister. But you can achieve this goal with criminal law, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u187	On Mrs Gesthuizen's first point, I say that tackling terrorism is not a left-right debate, so I do not quite understand why the left would be against what the right would be for. The Labour Party is sometimes also in favour of working hard when needed, but always within the lines. And that's how I know the SP. Can't we use criminal law? That was the whole point of my speech, and so I read the explanatory statement. At the moment when criminal law provides relief and therefore national security is guaranteed by the use of criminal law, I assume that this measure is not necessary. But, according to the cabinet, there are situations in which criminal law does not tackle the threat to national security. This measure is then necessary to prevent someone from coming to the Netherlands to commit attacks or do other terrible things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u188	I'm not making a left-right game out of it either. That's what I hear other spokesmen do here. I believe that we are united in the view that jihadism and terrorism must be combated. What we do disagree on is whether we should do so by using the attack on our own rule of law. I expect that more from the right side of the Chamber than from the left. Once again, I regret the fact that the Labour Party is admitting and accepting this point. A jihadist can of course come back to the Netherlands illegally. Then no one knows he's here. He can therefore have an undesirable statement or no longer be a Dutchman. Can Mr Recourt give me examples of situations where it is not possible to bring a returned jihadist who is in the sight of the services and who is being tracked down by the police to justice, while it is possible to deprive him of his Dutch identity because he has committed serious cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u189	I cannot give such a concrete example. Otherwise, I would have. I asked the Minister. They'll be examples of you having problems with evidence. I have no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u190	Provenance issues? As a Dutch State you would thus get away with one of the most serious consequences, namely the taking away of Dutch citizenship, which in this discussion should not have a punitive character, but has it in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u191	That is why I am looking forward to the Minister's reply. Nor am I in favour of the CDA amendment which states that an act is sufficient. That's why this bill also says "actions." Why? That is, I think, because it wants to go as far as possible in the direction of criminal law. It's a major measure. So you have to back it up. The moment you can back that up, you'll get a long way in criminal law. Again, I can't think of it myself. So I'm gonna love to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u192	You had hardly interrupted, Mrs. Gesthuizen. That's why I let you do it this time. The Minister asked for a suspension of half an hour to prepare the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u193	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for the first-term answer to the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u194	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all the spokesmen for their questions and comments, as well as, of course, for the many amendments tabled to the legislative proposal. I am pleased that we are able to discuss this proposal so quickly, because, according to the firm conviction of the government, particularly Mr Asscher and myself, who are responsible for implementing the jihadism action programme, this is one of the legislative proposals needed to reduce the risk of an attack in the Netherlands and thus to ensure that our national security is strengthened. Let me begin with the removal of a possible misunderstanding that seemed to affect Mrs Swinkels. This was the question of how the government looks at the people who will return now. Mrs Swinkels was right to point out that NCTV, like others, said that until now I am talking about the period from at least 2014 to last year's returners in themselves did not pose a great deal of threat. Why wasn't it? These were often people who had stayed relatively short in the ISIS area, who almost immediately returned pretty disillusioned and then, whether or not in good consultation, we know the case consultation; there are also other ways of guided have returned to Dutch society. This is not the case for everyone, because, as we know, a large number have now been convicted of criminal offences which they have committed, whether or not they have been committed by their own exit or are part of a terrorist organisation. A large number of these people are also under criminal investigation. So it is not, as Mrs Swinkels said, that the people who have returned in the past are not really dangerous; there are really very worrying exceptions to that. The second point concerns the question of the people who are returning now. Not only the General Intelligence and Security Service but also Erasmus University Rotterdam has presented a research report on this subject, both of which have been very thorough. At the AIVD it is called Life in the Caliphate; Erasmus University has also written very extensively about this, by the way, at the request of the court in Rotterdam. I commend both documents to the members of the Chamber and, in this case, to Mrs Swinkels. Why? That is because it makes it very clear that staying in the area controlled by ISIS in Syria and Iraq means that you, whether you are male or female and even if you are underage, are in almost all cases part of the system, part of a terrorist organisation and also part of the way you live there. That is why we have consistently expressed our concern over the returners of the future in recent months. They are people who have been part of a terrorist organisation for a long time, have been trained, have had experience with weapons and have done or experienced the most horrible things. We therefore believe that they are a very serious threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u195	Mrs. Swinkels was invited by the Minister and is happy to accept that invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u196	I'd even like to say "defied." I have two comments to make. First of all, the NCTV report of 16 March 2016 states that very few people returned in 2015. I do not want to deny that people are returning and that in principle, as the NCTV says, there is a threat, but it is not, as the Minister said, that there is a very great threat. The NCTV doesn't say that. The NCTGV does say that it is not impossible for people to be sent back and then possibly to commit an attack. But that is certainly not in the very absolute terms I have just heard the Minister use. Something else is that Erasmus University's report offers the criminal justice system much greater opportunities to act when people return. That is what the Minister himself says, at least that is how I understood him. At that time, it is much easier to accept the evidence, as Erasmus University says on the basis of that research, that when you return from such an area, you can't help but be actively involved in a terrorist organisation when you joined it. Does the Minister agree with me that this strengthens my argument that criminal law can actually do enough when it comes to returners?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u197	Few people return. We know, also from the reports I just mentioned, that ISIS is doing everything in its power to prevent people from returning. It is also very much the question, because of the logical connection, whether there are people who are part of that organization and who want to return. I cannot judge that, but one thing is certain: we know that ISIS does not facilitate return. Mrs Swinkels' second point is correct. She says that the reports have contributed to the possibility of condemning these people, and fortunately so. That's true. But Mrs Swinkels forgets that this is about people who we have been able to see in the right way that they have returned. This bill is based on the fact that they cannot return. We cannot always guarantee that we will see and know when a person returns to a Schengen country on the basis of his Dutch nationality. After all, that person is entitled to return lawfully. That is precisely why this bill is so important to prevent that return.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u198	Does the Minister think that taking away Dutch nationality will make any return impossible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u199	The question is to answer it; of course it will not be "every" return. However, it will be very much more difficult to return, and that is, I think, also the task which the government has been given by the Chamber and by society to endorse the Integrated Approach Action Programme. That task is therefore fulfilled. The bill now before us provides for a new ground for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security. These are persons who are outside the Kingdom, i.e. persons who have left, and who are members of an organisation which poses a threat to national security. The government believes that it is desirable to be able to withdraw Dutch citizenship in these cases. As a result, and on top of that as a foreigner, those concerned may also be declared undesirable. As I have just said, this will prevent the person concerned from returning to the Netherlands legally. The actual return is so much more difficult. The passport lapses automatically and the data subject is registered in the Schengen Information System II (SIS II) and Europol's Focal Point Travellers. Withdrawal of Dutch citizenship may be considered if the conduct of the person concerned shows that he has joined an organisation which, in accordance with the views of the Minister, has been placed on a list of organisations participating in a national or international armed conflict and which pose a threat to national security. I have just said so emphatically that it is about being connected, because that is the criterion. The behavior we're looking at should lead to the conclusion that someone is connected. I will come back to this in a moment when we talk about the amendments. But first, I'm going to go on with my general introduction. These are individuals who have joined organisations that use force to achieve their ideological goals, who use an anti-Western agenda, who also put this anti-Western agenda into practice, who commit or have committed attacks against and in the West, and who thereby pose a threat to the Netherlands. These are currently, for example, organisations such as Al-Qaida and ISIS, but also, of course, all those fighting groups associated with these two organisations, not only in Iraq and Syria, but also in Libya and countries such as Somalia and Mali, to mention just a few examples. The threat posed by these people is great at the points I have just mentioned. They have turned their ideology against Western society, as demonstrated by the horrific attacks in Brussels. They do not hesitate to use force to pursue this ideology. That is why my predecessor in office, together with Minister Asscher, included this proposal in the action programme. I shall now deal with the amendments, because many of the issues that have been raised result from them. I will then address the many questions. There are a lot of them, and I will do my best to finish them all without raving at them, but perhaps we can discuss a large number of them during the examination of the amendments. I shall begin with the Van Toorenburg amendment to item No. 10 the object of which is to remove the right of appeal against the withdrawal of the Dutch citizenship. First of all, let me say to Mrs Van Toorenburg that I understand her sentiment. It is quite natural for Mrs Van Toorenburg and other Members to wonder why we not only organise appeals for the target group of this measure, but also dismiss registry rights and finance legal aid. Why the hell would we do that for this target group? This applies, however, to more proposals included in the legislative proposal. We are dealing here with a far-reaching measure that is irreversible and has far-reaching consequences. Not only from that line of thinking, but also from the point of view that we must comply with European guarantees, there is a number of measures in the law on this point, which must ensure that we comply with those European guarantees. In doing so, we want to ensure that this is sustainable and sustainable as far as possible. For this reason, the appeal, which was also explicitly expressed in the opinion on the legislative proposal, has been incorporated into the law. At the same time, this amendment also seeks to extend the circle of persons entitled to appeal to the family members of those concerned. By the way, there is no clause in that, because I even thought it was family members up to the fourth degree. That is rather harsh, because of course all of these people have the right to legal aid. This could therefore mean that several people, perhaps even more than ten, could appeal against the Minister's decision to abolish Dutch citizenship. The first point, the right of appeal, is there for two reasons: because of the far-reaching nature of the measure and because of the fact that we have to take account of the fact that the measure will not be known to anyone within the time limit of appeal. One of the spokesmen was right to say that there is a good chance that the Official Journal will not be read by terrorists in the ISIS area. I think that's a good chance too. However, the right of appeal is an appropriate means of guaranteeing legal certainty, and that is, of course, a requirement, inter alia, in the ECHR. I also find it impractical to include the measures taken by the family members. That is not necessary if we do not accept the amendment, because then we will have one clear opportunity to appeal. If the administrative judge then agrees with the decision, it is clear for the future that this decision has been taken lawfully and proportionally. Mrs van Toorenburg has already suggested it: for this reason, I would advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u200	I sometimes find it a little too easy for us to hide behind the phrase 'the European Treaty must not do so' and then lie in the air with our feet in the air. I seriously wonder if that is true, given all the legal guarantees provided for in this law. Can the Minister state, with more substantive arguments, why he thinks that this European law would not stand? There are all kinds of safeguards in the scheme on the basis of which you can come to that point. In addition, it's published online and someone gets the right to compete with a large group. If the European Court makes any more demands, I really wonder whether it will not gradually undermine its acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u201	Once again, I fully understand Mrs Van Toorenburg's feelings about this amendment. That's what I want to say. It does indeed sound very paradoxical: we find that someone has joined a terrorist organisation that is a threat to Dutch society, but at the same time we are going to help someone to oppose the Minister's decision. However, I think that we should stick to that for two reasons. The first is that, in our country, we are used to ensuring adequate legal certainty in the case of serious, far-reaching measures. Since, by definition, the person concerned is not in the Netherlands in this particular case, we must take into account that this could not apply because the person concerned is unable to take note of the decision. Then it would be wise to provide for that possibility of appeal. The second reason is exactly what Mr Segers said in the debate, but on another subject: you could force the family members, who may not be at all opposed to the decision, to appeal to it anyway, otherwise the consequences for their family members might be too heavy. That's the last thing I want. As Mr Segers rightly said, many family members will think that this is a choice of their cousin, or even a second cousin up to the fourth degree, according to Mrs Van Toorenburg's proposal. They may be at peace with this, but they think they should do something if nobody else does anything. I would find that undesirable in any case. That is why we choose to provide legal aid and legal certainty in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u202	I think it is very wise to extend the network of those who are, rather than the power of the Minister himself to get the stamp "okay" on his own decision. But again, every Dutchman should know the law. Then you should also know that you are at risk of losing your nationality when you travel to Syria and join. Then whose responsibility is it to protect you from that? It really requires an extra step from the Minister to explain this. On what basis should we not do this? Is this perhaps on the basis of case law or instructions from the European Court of Justice? Because I honestly wouldn't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u203	We have had a wide-ranging exchange of views on this subject. As a result of the Rottmann case, for example, the European Court has ruled that a proportionality assessment should always be carried out in the event of automatic withdrawal. Moreover, the starting point is not only in the European Treaty, but also in our Dutch rule of law that there should be adequate legal protection when the government takes far-reaching decisions. That's just the way it is. Even if there is a good deal to be said about this, I am convinced that this will ensure that the measure can become final when it is established that the administrative judge agrees with the proposal. That makes it really a definitive measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u204	I shall continue this exercise for a moment, because I do not find the answer satisfactory either. There is just such adequate legal protection. Why is there a need for a superb step, whereby the Minister himself, of his own accord, creates this legal protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u205	Because there is adequate legal protection when the person concerned becomes aware of the proposal. I believe that the person concerned should be able to appeal that. I would find it very undesirable if all kinds of other people in his environment should do so or feel compelled to do so, when they may not think the decision is wrong at all. I really don't like that. We must accept that there is a good chance that the person concerned will not be able to take note of the proposal. There is therefore no realistic possibility of bringing an action within the time limit. That is what we are providing for with this measure. Once again, I understand that it sounds strange, I say to Mrs Helder as well as to Mrs Tellegen, who has also made comments in this direction. Our aim, however, is to finally deprive these people of their nationality. We need this instrument to be able to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u206	That's not how I see it. It is a choice of those themselves to leave the Netherlands. That choice is bound to have consequences, such as this bill, which regulates that you can lose your Dutch identity. There is adequate legal protection. They can invoke them themselves, whether through family or not. The family does not have to feel compelled to do so on behalf of Muhammad or Ali, because the family itself is interested. A late wife may be interested because she loses her husband's benefit, or wages and the like. This whole exercise isn't necessary at all. If the person concerned thinks "I find this effect very annoying, I have someone appealing', then there is adequate legal protection. If a family member thinks "I want to invoke adequate legal protection on behalf of my family member," then so can I. If the concept of stakeholders in administrative law is met, adequate legal protection can simply be invoked. I still don't see... Yes, Mr. Chairman, I've been busy a long time, too. Colleague Swinkels was going on for a very long time. I'm not even halfway there yet, but I'm still not convinced by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u207	I understand. Perhaps I cannot convince Mrs Helder on this point, because she has the same feeling that Mrs Van Toorenburg has here, namely that this is a very strange, paradoxical arrangement. I'm just looking at the target. The aim is to permanently deprive people of Dutch nationality from whom we believe they are a danger to Dutch security. Then it is good that the judge is given an opportunity to make a judgment on this matter. We are dealing with this in this way, not only because the government thinks it is sensible, but also because of the advice given in the preliminary stage and because of the far-reaching nature of this measure. Whatever we think about it, we have to note that we really only have one interest, namely that this measure will last, that it will last and that it will make it as difficult as possible to return. In my firm conviction, this is really part of that. I come to the amendment to item No. 11 by Mrs Van Toorenburg, supported by Mrs Tellegen. The amendment makes it possible that the connection with a terrorist organisation can also be demonstrated by a single behaviour. I repeat, this is about the connection. This connection must be demonstrated by behaviour. The conduct as such is not decisive; the connection is decisive. Therefore, it is unlikely that the claim is legally sustainable that this connection is already apparent from a single conduct. Of course, you can come up with examples that it may be, but even so, such a far-reaching measure must lead to careful consideration. That also means that you must be able to demand these behaviours. Suppose you turn it around and you could lose your Dutchmanship because of one behavior. That would not be desirable. The Chamber, at least a majority, also thinks in this direction, because a similar amendment has not been accepted by the Temporary Law on administrative measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u208	Before I allow an interruption by Mrs Van Toorenburg, I would like to say something about Mrs Helder. She was just a little irritated by the fact that I am trying to get this debate to take place at some speed, but to have the important points raised. It's always an ungrateful task. I'll do it on your behalf. If you don't want any clues in that, I'd be happy not to. If you don't agree, you can always say the same. I know it's an ungrateful task. I'll do it on your behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u209	The Minister himself describes in his explanatory statement on page 6 so clearly that the concept of "connection" is based on two conditions. I don't want it to be too easy either. That's why I want that balance of interests. That is why I will not advise my group to vote in favour because it is automatic or because it has to, not at all. However, I find it annoying to close the road now. There may be all kinds of factual acts on the basis of which it can be found that someone is part of a terrorist organisation. But if there's only one very clear behavior you can see that someone's there, then it can't be, it seems. At least that's what the explanatory statement says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u210	That's right. You're gonna have to prove the connection. If we leave the proposal as it is now, the court must ultimately determine that there is a connection. In the government's view, there will have to be several behaviours, at least two. You're part of it, you're standing with an IS flag on a photo and you've been on Twitter telling me that you committed a crime in Raqqa. These are situations which justify the finding that there is a connection with a terrorist organisation and which also justify the withdrawal of a person's nationality. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that perhaps we can come up with a behavior that would show that there is a connection. However, I believe that it would be better for the safety and sustainability of the proposal to be based on two behaviours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u211	I would ask the Minister to look very carefully for the second period at what he himself wrote on page 6 of the explanatory statement. There he says very clearly that two conditions must be met. He is right to insist on this connection, and I would also like to point out that this could be demonstrated by actual acts for or for the benefit of a terrorist organisation. That has to be met. I couldn't agree more. In addition, the condition is that, on the basis of the conduct of the person concerned, it can be established that it is beyond reasonable doubt that he has endorsed those objectives. So one or more behaviors showing that he has endorsed the goals and also factual acts on the basis of which it can be established that someone is part of that organisation. I agree with the two-stage approach, but the Minister makes it a three-stage approach: multiple behaviours plus actual actions. Perhaps Mrs. Swinkels is right in saying that there is no other way and that it is the same. I'm not attached to it. I simply think it is important not to demand too much, because I also want that balance of interests to be made. Then it might be that one very serious behavior along with those factual acts that show that someone supports the goals of that organization under conditions................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u212	I will take Mrs Van Toorenburg's suggestion and come back to it in the second term. This means that I shall suspend the opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u213	Excellent. The opinion on the amendment to item No. 11 shall be held to reply to the Minister in the second term. I give the floor to Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u214	Mr. Chairman. As a result of the previous interruption, I always appreciate it, but it was also a very long time ago, and your comment in my direction that I was somewhat irritated to make a point of order. This is about a bill. I've committed one interruption. Then I'll put one on the Minister, and you'll already be waving that I need to hurry up. I appreciate your presidency and I have no criticism of it either. However, I would like to point out, before the Acts, that I am disturbed by the fact that double standards are applied. If I make one interruption, it will immediately be born that I must hurry up while I also wish to make my contribution on behalf of my group to the proper substantive treatment of this bill. I'd just like to point that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u215	It's your right to note that. I didn't cut you off. I was just trying to give a friendly signal. I respect your point of order. Like every President, I always try to treat everyone in exactly the same way and, at least, to get the heart of the debate right. Let's try that with each other. I will give the floor to the Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u216	I come to the amendment to item No. 12 by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Tellegen, whose aim is to allow the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship even if the person concerned is still in the territory of the Kingdom or is now there again. Let me say first of all that the justification for withdrawing Dutch citizenship lies in the fact that this withdrawal protects national security by preventing the person concerned from returning to the Netherlands. The essence of the bill is that last point: we prevent someone from returning to the Netherlands. From someone who is in the Netherlands, we do not need to prevent him from returning to the Netherlands. I understand the point that Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Tellegen, and in this case Mr Bishop, have made in this debate, namely that it is also good to be able to withdraw Dutch nationality from someone who is in the Netherlands. That is possible, because we did not settle for too long with a law that you can have the Dutch citizenship revoked by the judge after a criminal procedure. That's exactly the stairs we want. Anyone who is a member of a terrorist organisation in the Netherlands and who has shown this through behaviour can be convicted of criminal offences. Part of that conviction is that we have discussed this with the Chamber and that has also been accepted by the First Chamber, that someone may then lose nationality. The whole purpose of this law is to prevent someone from returning. That is at odds with this amendment and I must therefore advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u217	It could give rise to confusion if a law provides for it to be carried out through the criminal justice system, while here it is regulated that the place where such acts or behaviours occur obviously matters. That can't make a difference, can it? If a person has been found guilty of conduct such as that which has just been discussed in detail and which has now returned to the Netherlands, should he be treated in the same way as if he were still in the area where those behaviours have taken place? That is the thrust of this amendment. I think that this article is more in line with the legislative proposal that has already been accepted by harmonization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u218	I understand that Mr Bishop says that, but we must of course realise that the situation could then be such that someone who has never left at all would be able to meet this requirement. In the Netherlands, we use the starting point of criminal action against people on our territory. This whole law ensures that we prevent people from returning. Those are really two different purposes. This also complements the legislative proposal that we have already discussed. So if there is reason to prosecute people, that can be done on the basis of membership of a terrorist organisation, there are other means; then we just want to put someone away. Let's be real. I would like to go back to Mrs van Tongeren's point of solidarity: the imprisonment of people who pose such a danger to our national security is ultimately preferable to preventing someone from returning. Mrs Van Tongeren is right to say that someone who returns is staying somewhere else. In view of what Mr Bisschop wants to achieve in this particular case, the criminal prosecution, detention and possible removal of Dutch citizenship in accordance with the legislation we have recently come to know, is therefore the appropriate route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u219	I have some reservations about that. That means that someone who is smart enough to handle it and is back in the Netherlands will receive a different treatment, although he has behaved in exactly the same way as someone who is found guilty of the behavior as described. If he sees a chance to come back, he'll be treated differently. Something's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u220	No, he's not being treated differently, because he sees a chance to come back. We're just trying to keep someone like that from coming back. So these are two different situations. The starting point of this bill is to prevent someone from returning. That is not what Mr Bishop is trying to do. He says: no, we must also try to deprive a person within the Netherlands of his nationality under circumstances which, moreover, do not necessarily see a successful exit but only on membership of a terrorist organisation. That is a criminal offence in the Netherlands. We just have the law for that. That is why I maintain my view that I reject this amendment. I come now to the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Tellegen to item No. 13. That amendment states that it is not an optional withdrawal ground, so that the competence does not lie with the minister and that it does not make the minister a balance of interests, but that it is a compelling withdrawal ground. Therefore, the Minister has no discretionary power and therefore there is no possibility to take into account individual circumstances and to consider them. In this particular case, I would like to draw Mr Bishop's attention to the judgment in the Rottmann case by the European Court of Justice, according to which the loss of Union citizenship is permitted. That is what this legislative proposal complies with, but on the condition that there is a proportionality weighting. That means that this amendment must be discouraged. However, I would like to say to Mr Bishop that I agree with him that the starting point must be that this consideration takes into account the question of whether a criminal conviction would otherwise be less easy. Quite specifically, this means that I can weigh up whether the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship could possibly prevent criminal prosecution and assessment. This could lead to me not doing it for the same reasons I have just outlined. So I think it is important to make the following explicit. The issue of obstructing criminal prosecution by withdrawing it will be taken with us, but what the outcome will be will have to be looked at separately in each individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u221	In the preparation period I was allowed, I also looked at the Rottmann arrest. This reflects a more specific situation that is not one-on-one comparable to the point in the amendment. In addition, I share the point made by my fellow Members that we should not lie down too easily in advance and say, in relation to European law, that we are doing so, because that is safe. I think we should have the courage to ensure our own national security. I think that the automation proposed in this proposal gives much more clarity. For all I care, we're still looking for a hardness clause. This other route, in which the decision is based in principle, gives much more clarity than if a trade-off has to be made. The personal circumstances of the person concerned do not really matter, to put it very coldly, although I do not mean it that way. The only consideration to be made is whether national security is at stake. If so, it is clear and then the decision is taken. The Rottmann judgment gives sufficient room for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u222	I do not entirely agree with Mr Bishop. The Rottmann judgment states, for understandable reasons, that such a serious measure as the withdrawal of a person's Union citizenship should be based on a proper balance of interests in this case, as is the case with Dutch nationality. There's nothing crazy about that. In the Netherlands, too, there must be a sound basis for any government decision, as Mrs Van Toorenburg said. There just needs to be a balance of interests. Of course, you have to take personal circumstances into account. This could also be a question of minors, as Mr Segers has already made a point about this. We also know that minors are part of ISIS. We also know from the international media that the security services are now warning that children over 9 years of age are being structurally trained by ISIS. They can thus also pose a danger on return, if they are 11, 12, 13, 14 or 15. There is therefore every reason to include minors in this measure, however bad it may be, but that is simply the reality. However, there is still a need for a personal balance of interests. I'm also very committed to doing that. The other way around, what does Mr Bishop think I'm going to do? Does he think I'm gonna sit here and think: shall I move in on someone's Dutchness today? No, my job is to ensure national security. I will therefore take this measure as soon as possible. We take note of the fact that the withdrawal takes place on the basis of data. For example, this could be a notice from the security services or the Public Prosecutor's Office or information that we get from that area in other ways. After all, we are talking about information that is not directly based on actual on-the-spot determination, because of course we cannot do that. It is therefore fair in this respect that we should take these very serious measures carefully. In doing so, I agree that, as proposed by the SGP, we must also include the importance of criminal prosecution. That may be a reason not to withdraw the Dutchmanship, to let someone return and say: then we'll get you too. Then again, the main rule is that we would rather lock someone up than leave someone there with the freedom to do the most horrible things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u223	There is no doubt that the path that can or should lead to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship should be careful. There can be no doubt about that. As far as I am concerned, this is absolutely not the subject of the debate. The question is just how much space you give to the balancing of interests. In our opinion, this is the case: the harder, the clearer, the more clear you regulate it legally, the better the preventive effect may be even before departure and the better the functioning of such a law is. I can imagine that you, as a responsible ruler, also have in mind that there are other elements before making a decision. However, that is flexibility in implementation, or, as I have mentioned, wisdom in implementation and not flexibility and flexibility in conditions. The intention of the amendment is to ensure that there is no light in that path. Because it's now a possibility, there's too much space in it. As far as I'm concerned, we really need it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u224	Then I really must draw Mr Bishop's attention to the amendment, because the amendment has three elements. Firstly, it removes the balance of interests. There's no balance of interests anymore. It's a given. I have to do that. So I can't balance interests. Secondly, according to the amendment, I must always include the possibility of a criminal conviction. That is the only balance of interests that can lead to a change. I can think of a lot more considerations that might lead to a different judgment. Thirdly, according to the SGP amendment, the voluntary entry into service must be added. That's a hugely open standard. When is something voluntary? With the legislative proposal, we want to have this discussion about whether or not you are part of it, willingly or not, and then I can do it. The strange thing is that the amendment actually contradicts what Mr Bishop says. I suggest that Mr Bishop take a closer look at the amendment. I press him to the heart to get the word "volunteer." Why would you open a discussion about whether or not to volunteer for the benefit of the people to whom you want to apply the measure? If it's not voluntary, I can't imagine what it would be, because I can't apply it. That's a big deal! That is quite contrary to what Mr Bishop, and I think that is quite understandable, points out: it must be an obligation. But no, if it's not voluntary, I can't do it. Let's take the bill as it is. If, on the basis of behavior, we find that there is a connection with a terrorist organisation, as far as I am concerned, it is completely irrelevant whether it is voluntary or not, then we will withdraw from the Netherlands, unless there is another balance of interest, including the possibility of a criminal conviction proposed by the SGP. That's why I have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u225	Mr Bishop, we are doing the interruptions in two, but the Minister himself has now provoked a third. I'll give you that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u226	This reflects the quality of your Presidency, Mr President! Thank you very much. It is, of course, a little surprising that the Minister is explaining to me exactly what is proposed in our amendment. The essence of the amendment is that you take the utmost care in the lead, which leads to a clear conclusion, and that there is then some room in the execution, but especially not to discuss whether or not to withdraw the Dutchmanship. The intention of the amendment is therefore explicit: to proceed as carefully as possible, leading to a clear conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u227	I really don't see it that way. The text of the amendment is that there is no discretionary power, therefore no balancing of interests, except in the area of criminal law. The amendment opens a debate on voluntary work, because voluntary work becomes a condition. I'm not for that. I am very pleased that the SGP Group has indicated that it really supports this bill and the idea behind it. I think this is also important for the treatment in the First Chamber. However, I really must advise against this amendment, because in my view it leads to consequences on three crucial points which, at least, the government does not think are sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u228	I can hear the Minister say the following very clearly. Let's just take over this bill. The goal is to prevent someone from coming back. The aim is to prevent terrorist activity. To this end, we take away Dutch citizenship, unless, for criminal reasons, the consideration is made that we would rather put someone away than take away his or her nationality. Am I hearing that right now? For that would mean for me that this balance always ends in: we are not going to diminish nationality. There is always cause for criminal prosecution, because someone is a member of a terrorist organisation and at least has engaged in activities for which he or she can be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u229	No, because the purpose of the bill is to prevent someone from returning to the Netherlands. That is the starting point. And if someone does not return to the Netherlands, we may want what we want criminally, but then we will have a lot of trouble meeting it. So the purpose of this bill is very simple: to prevent someone from returning to the Netherlands. The SGP Group, together with Mrs Tellegen, calls for the importance of a criminal conviction to be included, regardless of the other interests that I have already mentioned. Mrs Tellegen has co-signed the amendment, so she is asking for it. I say to that: yes, I admit that I will. I think that is an understandable condition, but that does not need to be regulated by law, certainly not in conjunction with removing the rest of the balance of interests. Because that is what this amendment does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u230	I would like to go back to the other amendment. Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Bishop and I say: someone is returning; what is happening at that time? We're talking about the situation in which someone doesn't return. I'll follow the Minister in that. But how does this law actually work in the event that someone does return and is indeed on Dutch territory?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u231	So this law does not work, because this law looks at people who are outside the territory of the Dutch Kingdom. But then we have a whole range of other measures. Then we have the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism, which has just been approved by the First Chamber and which allows us to impose bans on territories, ankle ties, reporting obligations and so on. Then, of course, we have the normal criminal law provisions that allow us to take someone into remand. That, I think, is preferable in the case of the people we are very concerned about. In that process, there is also the possibility to take away Dutch citizenship by a decision of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u232	One question provokes the other. The explanatory memorandum states that this measure will be imposed several times a year. At least that's the expectation. I've lost the exact number, but there are between 200 and 300 outbounds. Can I conclude that the relatively low number of times that will be imposed a year is the people we say will not succeed in criminal matters, but they are still a threat to national security and so we impose this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u233	That could be very good. I am therefore taking these criminal possibilities into account in the question of whether we will apply this measure or not. Let us point out that, of course, we do not know what the developments will be in the next two or three years. We think, on the basis of the current situation, that, given the difficulty of gathering information in the area itself, it will be quite difficult to achieve a careful withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Of course, it is not excluded that information will be released. A simple example is the leaked ISIS paper registration forms. If there is one behavior that could be part of the conclusion that someone has joined a terrorist organisation, it is the completion of a notification form for the organisation itself. If that were to happen on a larger scale, I do not rule out the possibility of applying it more often. This bill has been put in place by my predecessor, in the situation of 2014. However, it has to be said that the situation is different now. But care is of course at the top. It'll always be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u234	Yes, carefully, and customized, I belong in this. In such a way that this measure will not be applied if national security is otherwise served and guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u235	Of course. I come to Mr Recourt's amendment, No. 14, in which he asks for a horizon determination. In doing so, we must take a close look at the significance of this law, because it takes measures which are irreversible. A judge will always look at it if Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendments on that point are not accepted. There is always a judge looking into that somewhat curious paradoxical system in which I will automatically appeal against my own decision, precisely to ensure that I am sure that the measure will last, because it is irreversible. This is very badly related to the provision that Mr Recourt has laid down in the amendment that the law ends by definition after five years. That clause affects the legitimacy of the irreversibility of the decision. I explicitly say that I think it is perfectly logical that I am prepared to review the legislative amendment after five years and then send an evaluation proposal to the Chamber. I assume that this is also Mr Recourt's intention. I urge him to convert the amendment to that effect. In that case, I will leave the opinion on the amendment to the House with pleasure. I must strongly discourage the amendment in its present form, because it could undermine the substance of the measure. That's the last thing we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u236	I don't get it. Suppose the evaluation shows that the law does not bring what we had thought of it, even more so, that the opposite is the case and that the Netherlands has become more unsafe. The conclusion must then be that we must stop. Get rid of the law! So we have the same undermining effect. Why can't we say that we're quitting unless there's good reason to go through with it? This seems to me to be identical to the proposal to evaluate and stop the law if the evaluation is not positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u237	That's different. That really is a different legal principle. If Mr Recourt's amendment is adopted, the law will automatically end. So what are we doing two months before the final deadline? What are we doing three months before that? What does it mean for those whose Dutch citizenship is withdrawn in the year preceding the possible end of the legislative amendment? They will come up with the argument that it is not at all certain that the law will still exist in a year's time. They'll ask the administrative judge if that's true. I think we will then enter into a discussion which we can avoid by transforming the amendment in such a way as to include a provision on an evaluation after five years. In principle, then, the measure will simply continue unless, in the debate to be held in the course of the review with the Minister, Mr Recourt will understand that I assume that I am myself; I look forward to that debate, which says that the law must be amended or repealed. That can happen on motion or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u238	This surprises me, isn't it? Two weeks ago, we dealt with a bill with an identical horizon. I just stole this horizon clause from that bill. I cut it out and put it in my amendment. Two weeks ago, it was not the cabinet's argument that land bans and so on will no longer be imposed by the time the five years have passed. That seems to me to be an identical argument. In addition, I would like to help the Minister by stating in the Acts that I suspect that after the first five years we have not yet reached the stage where the law can already be removed. I think the fight against terrorism will take a little longer. The aim of the amendment is to ensure that the decision taken does not remain in force for a period of days. Through this horizon clause we force ourselves to be constantly critical and to ask ourselves whether the law is still necessary. Against this background, a judge will also be able to take away from a person a month before his arrival even more, rather than in the Chamber, if he is a danger to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u239	I do not agree with Mr Recourt. The Temporary Administrative Measures Act does not provide for irreversible decisions that basically last a lifetime. We are talking about small things, about bans on areas that are naturally finite, or about reporting obligations that are naturally finite. That's really something other than taking away someone's nationality. I would ask Mr Recourt to weigh those two figures. I think they're really different. In addition, Mr Recourt states that we will still need the law after five years. I think I have to agree terribly with Mr Recourt; I hope not, but I am inclined to think that he is right about that. Then why do we have to table a new bill? The latter will have to be done if we are to work with a horizon. There must be a new bill. I have to submit this after three years in order to be sure, because who knows if there will be elections by then and no controversial issues should be dealt with, which puts us at risk of losing this legislative amendment again. I think that this is a very cumbersome way of achieving the same thing I am proposing, namely an evaluation. On the basis of this evaluation, without having to submit a new legislative proposal, we can simply assess whether we have achieved what we wanted through this law. I would once again suggest to Mr Recourt that, on account of these arguments, his amendment be rebuilt in such a way that an evaluation is included. In that case, I can leave the opinion on the amendment to the House. The amendment in its present form must be discouraged, for the above reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u240	Amendment No 14 is therefore not recommended. As far as the Acts are concerned, Amendment No 13 has also been dissuaded by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u241	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u242	Yes. We shall now proceed to the amendment on item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u243	I have already indicated that I understand very well why Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Tellegen have tabled the amendment on item No. 15 have submitted a motion for a resolution (Doc. Just as it is weird to appeal against your own decision, it feels really weird not to charge registry fees if someone else would. I do believe that this is of the same interest, namely that you must be sure that there can never be any objection on grounds of principle or procedure to the way in which we have organised legal protection against the legislative proposal. I believe that the person concerned always has the right to have that decision reviewed by the judge. This is one of the core values of our rule of law. As I said earlier, the positive judgment of the judge also contributes to the legitimacy of the decision. I therefore believe that that justifies removing as many obstacles as possible to the establishment of that profession. Access to justice should be ensured, including in the case of a review of, for example, the ECHR, in order to minimise the possibility of the appeal being successful on this particular point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u244	I didn't know I'd ever say that certain legal protection is some kind of crazy thing, but in this case I have to. How can the Minister maintain that this crazy is now absolutely necessary, given the ECHR, whereas it was not the case at all before entering foreign military service? In fact, this crazyness he has not built in at all when going into foreign military service, which can also lead to the loss of your Dutch identity. Then there's a prime minister who says we're at war with ISIS and we're sending F-16s. And then all of a sudden, we're gonna put together a whole Christmas tree. I cannot understand, nor can I believe, that the Minister can insist that this is necessary, given the ECHR, if it does not have to go into foreign military service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u245	I have to see whether what is laid down here in the law, the exemption from registry duties, also applies to entering foreign military service. If that is not the case, then that makes sense because there is a difference in probativeness. Going into strange military service implies that it's about a country's military service. If you become a member of an organization of one of the many organizations that can also change their names every week and change their alliances and find themselves in an area of which we can only learn fairly incongruously, that makes it different. That, I think, is why we have dealt with it this way. We want the provision and the decision to stand. I'm willing to do whatever it takes. In this case, this point is also included. We must ensure that those involved in this area, if they feel that they need it, can defend themselves in law, so that the decision of the judge contributes to legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u246	I think the Minister is really going a step too far. There's no need for that step. No one wants this kind of thing with a short blow. That is why the balance of interests remains important. That is why the judicial test remains important. That's all true. But we cannot insist that this must necessarily be done because of the European Convention on Human Rights if all these measures do not have to be accompanied by the same legal guarantees. Because then we have actually had an arrangement all this time that could not last, and I really cannot imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u247	Then Mrs Van Toorenburg and I disagree on this point. My job is to ensure that this serious measure that we are proposing is maintained because we are convinced that it will work preventively and can contribute to the safety of the Netherlands. We have considered that registry rights on this point would be unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u248	What is your opinion on the amendment to item No. 15?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u249	So that remains that I'm deceiving it. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 16 by Mrs Helder. In fact, we have already discussed this. That amendment is also based on the removal of this balance of interests. For the reasons I have already indicated, I am not in favour of this. For this reason, I would also advise against the amendment to item No. 16. Mr Recourt has tabled an amendment to item No. 17 in which he asks that, in addition to or on top of the judicial test, which takes place automatically, whether or not provoked by the person concerned himself or on his own initiative, a supervisory committee should also be set up to examine independently what is happening in the system. If the question arises who is looking at the system, I must say first of all that it is the Chamber itself. The chamber controls the minister. It is also up to the Court to determine whether this measure is being properly used. The review shall be carried out in individual cases by the Administrative Court. The question then arises as to what the role of that independent committee is if the administrative judge has said in individual cases that it is always good. Perhaps Mr Recourt will be able to say something about that in a moment. Then some of the information will be based on messages from the security services, which we must assume are already under the control of the CTIVD. So there's a review. That is also fair, because this does not lead to a judicial test. That takes place in a different way. That's why we have the CTIVD. But in this particular case everything takes place in public, because there must be a judicial test on the Minister's decision. I cannot therefore see at the moment the importance of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u250	The Minister will give me an idea, because he says it's actually up to the Chamber. Now the CTIVD is also called the eyes and ears of the Chamber where the intelligence services are concerned. We can ask the CTIVD: do some research for us, because we cannot see it for ourselves. This is, of course, the case here, because information is partly based on secret information. So we could ask the CTIVD to check for us whether the law does not apply in individual cases, but in the breadth of the law it does what it should do and not what the Council of State warns about, namely that the work is for the criminal court and that it is not proportional or what others warn about, that it is discriminatory. I think that's relevant warnings. I hope and don't expect them to come true, but I do want to be able to control it. That is the purpose of the amendment. This requires an extension of jurisdiction, since the CTIVD is now only competent on the basis of the Intelligence and Security Services Act and this concerns the Dutch National Act. So, if I understand the Minister correctly, it is no objection to us asking the CTIVD as a Chamber to look at the legality of the operation of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u251	Mr Recourt, I am afraid, cannot have drawn that conclusion from my remarks. I have said that, where this bill and the decision I make are based on a message from those services, the CTIVD will, from its job, already monitor those activities of the services. Thus, as far as services are concerned, the CTIVD already automatically checks the basis of the decision as part of the service oversight. The balance of interests I make as a minister is judged by the judge. I asked Mr Recourt what more to look at if the building blocks are already in the CTIVD and the judge checks whether the balance of interests is correct. On top of that, Mr Recourt would like the CTIVD to look again at the system of balancing interests. I note that the CTIVD is not at all responsible for assessing any balance of interests. He's just checking to see if the security services are doing their job. So I don't see how there can be any added value for an independent committee, because we have a judge who's testing, let alone the CTIVD who hasn't been trained in the balance of interests at all. That is not the job of the CTIVD at all. And then she should check the minister again instead of the security services.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u252	I see a solution. The Minister needs a lot of words to say what he does not agree with, but he also says what he agrees with. The CTIVD already conducts theme research with some regularity. Then, for example, she investigates how the secret services are tapping in width; not the one tap that a judge might be looking at. Does that indeed have the effect that has been intended? Is it legitimate? For example, it is also possible that the CTIVD will look at how the taking of Dutch citizenship is going. The only extension is that it is based on the Dutch law on Dutch citizenship and not on the basis of the Wiv. So at the moment when the Minister simply wants the CTIVD to do what she has always done, namely those thematic studies, then we agree. Then I would like the CTIVD to conduct a periodic thematic study into the functioning of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u253	No, because Mr Recourt accepts that the CTIVD will supervise the operation of a minister and not the operation of a security service. That is a completely different subject. In my opinion, there is only one supervisor on the minister and that is the Chamber. We're gonna do an evaluation. I already promised. I hope that Mr Recourt will also want to express this in his amendment, because then it cannot be forgotten in the event that I will no longer be the Minister for Security and Justice in five years' time. I think that would be good. I would like to invite him to do so, but it is really crazy to have a judicial review in individual cases, then to ask an organisation that supervises the intelligence and security services to systematically check the Minister. I really don't think this would be wise for state law either. That is why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u254	Following on: does the Minister agree with me that the secret information that the security services bring in and on which the Minister bases the decision to withdraw from the Netherlands is unlikely to be fully reviewed by the judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u255	The classified information will be displayed in a post. Thus, that secret information is part of the procedure and is examined by the judge, as is customary with AIVD's office messages. It is my job to make sure that I take my decision carefully, that I consider all the interests involved and that I ensure that the judge I invite to speak on this matter has a positive opinion on it. That's my primary interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u256	Of course, such a notice cannot fully reflect the secret nature of that information. Isn't the PvdA's proposal that such an investigation should be carried out by the CTIVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u257	I have indicated why I believe that, for all kinds of reasons, there is no reason for the CTIVD to take over Mr Recourt's suggestion, the role of the Court vis-à-vis the Minister, the role of the Court of Justice, however much I appreciate that he is taking part in ensuring that the legal protection and due diligence of this process are as optimal as possible. But I really think that with what we have proposed, we have sufficient safeguards for that. I would also like to look at other Members of the Chamber who have indicated that they are going too far to find the safeguards we have built in. It is the same; we must be realistic in this. I come to the amendment to item No. 18 in which Mr Bishop proposes to delete "the importance of national security" as grounds for withdrawal, and thus to leave only the connection with a terrorist organisation. I think it is important that we realise that 'in the interests of national security' has an independent meaning in the weighting of proportionality. In itself, joining a terrorist organisation is, as a rule, sufficient to assume that those involved are a threat to national security, because this connection must be demonstrated by several behaviours, but that may also be different in circumstances. I can come up with examples of this, but I do not think this is wise. I therefore see little reason to embrace the amendment or leave it to the Chamber. So I'm gonna have to dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u258	When we look at the editors of the article, there is twice the element of national security. In the first sentence, it says: "Our Minister may withdraw from the Netherlands in the interests of national security (...) if someone "has joined an organisation which has been placed (...) on a list of organisations participating in a national or international armed conflict and is a threat to national security." So it seems as if the connection to such an organisation and the weighting of national security is a cumulation. As can be seen from the whole bill, sec joining a terrorist organisation that is a threat to national security and is listed as such is already a threat to national security. This amendment therefore simply seeks to tighten up the criteria on which that decision is based. So it is actually a support for the intention of the bill and not so much an adaptation of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u259	I understand what Mr Bishop says. In fact, he says it's double-up: that list already consists of organisations that are in conflict with the interests of national security, so why do you have to mention that again in the main rule? But then I'll come back to the starting point. There is a list of organisations whose criterion to be placed on it is national security. At the same time, we have the main rule that withdrawal should take place in the interests of national security. I think this is two greats on two different levels. I can imagine that, according to Mr Bishop, it sounds like a textual double-up, but I have no objection to that in this case, because I think it is very good that we find that withdrawal always takes place in the interests of national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u260	That is evident from the tail of the wording of the paragraph of that Article. The risk that you are now going to run in a legal process is that there is going to be a discussion about exactly this cumulation, that it can be interpreted in this way. The intention is clear, but the wording is such that a reasoning can be followed that you have to meet two conditions. That can't be true, can it? It is a question of joining an organisation and so on; that is precisely what we are talking about. That is sufficient evidence and leads to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship; we still need to talk about "may lead" or "must lead."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u261	I do not think Mr Bishop and I disagree. We both think it is important that this measure is there and is being implemented. The question is whether we need to change the text. I admit that I am still looking at that and Mr Bishop will send a message about his text exegesis before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u262	Does this mean you're judging...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u263	I shall then suspend my assessment of the amendment to item No. 18 up. I have also done so with the amendment to item No. 11, because I promised Mrs Van Toorenburg that I would take a look at that. I now come to Amendment No 1, by Mr Van Klaveren. 19. I've been a little confused by this. I would ask Mr Van Klaveren to help me to remove that confusion, because the text of this amendment is exactly the same as the text of Amendment No Van der Staaij/Tellegen in part No. 12. The text of the amendment is the same, only the explanatory statement is something else. I would like to make a few comments on this point. I've already indicated 12 that I should advise against it. I am doing the same thing about Mr Van Klaver's similar amendment. I would like to leave it to him whether it is practical to put two identical amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u264	The content of the text has remained the same, because it has been indicated by the Bureau of Legislation that it can be designed in this way as legally feasible. There is, however, a difference, as the Minister has been able to read in the explanatory statement. We would also like to see it possible for people who have not yet left the Netherlands to lose their Dutch nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u265	But I have already indicated this, also in the context of the amendment on item No. 12, that the purpose of the law is to prevent a person from returning to the Netherlands. That is why I have the amendment to item No. 12 and the same goes for the amendment to item No. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u266	Of course, it should not necessarily mean that what we want in this case also the VVD and the SGP is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u267	Sure, but I'm being asked to give a judgment. I do. I don't recommend the amendment. I'll get to the questions. It's a whole series. I'll try to answer them with some speed. I have seven topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u268	Perhaps you could mention these issues, and let us then see if we can deal with the interruptions on that subject at once after the end of each subject. I think we have already touched on many key points in discussing the amendments. I ask the Chamber to confine itself to new questions that are being raised and not to repeat discussions. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u269	I'm like laundry in your hands, Mr. Chairman. The first point is statelessness, the second is the relationship to criminal law, then the legal protection, and I think I can skip a lot of that, then the application of the balance of interests, then the extension to persons residing in the Netherlands, which I can let go of, because we have dealt with this and finally a number of other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u270	I'll count five blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u271	I can see that. It is indeed less, because we have already talked so extensively about legal protection, that I probably do not need to talk about it anymore. Let me start with the statelessness and then see how far I can get with the other subjects. Mrs Tellegen has asked about the statelessness. Let me say very simply that in 2012 there was a debate with my predecessor on this subject. It then led to a motion by Mr Schouw and Mr Segers, which was adopted by the Chamber. The motion states that the government must not, in any way, be involved in extending the possibilities for the removal of nationality with the result that the government may not, in any way, initiate initiatives to this end. The request that Mrs Tellegen did so differently in her contribution has been blocked by this motion. If Mrs Tellegen wants it to be different, then there must be a new ruling from the Chamber. This ruling dates back to 2012. The world looked a little different then than it is now. Maybe there is reason to believe that a majority of the House now feels differently, but I would like to leave that to Mrs Tellegen. This also indicates that I can say to Mrs Swinkels that this bill will not lead to any statelessness. Mr Van Klaveren asked about the difference between England and the Netherlands, for example. In England, statelessness is possible. That's right. Why? Because there is a law in England which has the consequence under very strict conditions, there is a lot of discussion in the United Kingdom about someone becoming stateless. That is because the United Kingdom is not bound by the European Convention on Nationality. Under the New York Treaty, the UK has made a reservation on this particular point. The Netherlands has not done so and is bound by both treaties. Mrs Helder asked whether my predecessor to the Council of Europe raised the issue of statelessness. The answer to that is yes. The secretariat of the Council of Europe has indicated that it does not see any role for itself in this. However, the Member States of the Council of Europe have been questioned about this element. In the note on the report, to which I would like to refer to Mrs Helder, I included a text on this subject. To Mr Segers and Mrs Van Tongeren I would like to say a few words about the criticism of the Council of State. It is clear that in the opinion the Council indicated that there are questions about the added value of the legislative proposal. It is important to realise that, contrary to the opinion of the Section, it is not the case that with the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship the powers of criminal action would be nullified. That was the starting point of the Council of State: if we can no longer do so, we have objections to the legislative proposal. But it's different. In addition, following the opinion, we have made a number of changes to the legislative proposal. Even if someone is no longer a Dutchman, but has committed criminal terrorist offences, he can be prosecuted in the Netherlands. That seems to me to be an adequate answer to this question. I'm coming on...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u272	Have you moved on to another subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u273	Yes, I've moved on to another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u274	We could not escape that impression either. There are still a number of questions about this statelessness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u275	Sorry, it's my fault. I promised I'd call it in, but I didn't listen to you very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u276	I give Mrs Tellegen and Mr Segers an opportunity to put another question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u277	The Minister seems almost relieved that there is a statement in the Chamber which clearly states that the Netherlands must always work to prevent statelessness. But it is not so long ago that this minister had a different job and that he made a fervent plea here to look above all at people of a single nationality who are guilty of joining a terrorist organisation. He wanted to explore the possibility of an adjustment at that point. All I have asked the Minister is whether he is prepared to discuss this with his colleagues at European level. Also the VVD is not in principle in favour of making people stateless. In fact, it is very strange that this law only deals with people of dual nationality. A Dutchman with a single nationality is potentially free, because otherwise we would make him stateless. I understand the reasoning that it is not possible, but can the Minister at least promise that he is willing to look at it again? I heard about the Council of Europe, but I can imagine that there are European colleagues from the Minister who are struggling with this same problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u278	I have indicated that Mrs Tellegen is asking for action to be taken in violation of a motion by Mr Schouw and Mr Segers adopted by the Chamber, which explicitly called on the government not to take any steps in this direction. So I have no choice but to give this answer. That's why I just said I can't do this unless there's another ruling from the Chamber. If Mrs Tellegen wants to provoke it, because the world was really different in 2012 than it was in 2016, I would like to hear it. For the record, we are still party to treaties where this is not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u279	It seems very honourable that a motion, including my own, prevents us from moving forward in an area in which the Minister apparently wants to go further, but it is quite shocking if that motion is the obstacle and not the international treaties to which we are bound. Not so much that motion is the obstacle, that must be the international treaties, including the Netherlands, with which we have said that we do not cooperate in statelessness; we ensure that our laws and regulations do not lead to statelessness. Then a motion that is being tabled here is not decisive, is it? It's bad enough that the minister at the time apparently needed it. Surely a new motion will not open a new path towards the treaties that we have signed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u280	That's exactly what I just said. My last sentence, before Mr Segers started, was: this is without prejudice to the fact that we are bound by two treaties, the European Convention on Nationality and the Treaty of New York, and that this bill fully complies with them. If Mrs Tellegen asks me whether, despite these treaties, I am prepared to talk to my colleagues about this, I say that there is a motion that does not allow that discussion either. It's what it is. I said at the end: this is without prejudice to the fact that we cannot reach any other conclusions either, because we are bound by the treaties under which, as Mr Segers rightly says, we have signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u281	But the minister said: we lived in a very different world in 2012 than in 2016. In doing so, he suggested that it might be quite different and that we might look at these treaties quite differently. Is that right? Does this minister look at these treaties differently? Does he want to change it? Does he want a package leaflet? Has the position of the Netherlands changed with regard to that signature and with regard to what we have co-signed in those treaties, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u282	This issue has been raised not only in the handling of this law, but also in that of the previous law on the acquisition of nationality on the basis of a criminal conviction. At that time, the government made it very clear that there are no talks about amending treaties. It's as simple as that. The next part was useful and necessary. I've been working on that for a while in my speed; I apologize for that. Mr Recourt asked me if I could give a concrete example in which criminal law is not a solace and it is therefore necessary to withdraw nationality. I think we have to note that this bill concerns people who are not in the Netherlands, in an area where we can find very difficult legal and convincing criminal evidence. We are concerned about the impact of such a person's return. I think this is the example: we prefer that such a person should not return to the Netherlands. At the same time, of course, in the debate, including in relation to the amendments, we have already exchanged the view that criminal law is a consideration in order not to do so. This brings me back to the point I mentioned in the direction of Mrs Swinkels, among others: having someone in prison is preferable to having someone with terrorist intentions somewhere else than in the Netherlands. That brings me to the relationship with criminal law. Mr Bishop asked the general question, which was also raised quite extensively in the written procedure, as to the difference between criminal law and the use of administrative measures. Of course, these are two totally different instruments with different objectives. Criminal law always has a punitive function, but of course it also has a protective function. This measure has a protective function. He prevents a person from returning legally to the Schengen area, assuming that the other nationality would not be that of the Netherlands or of another Schengen country; in many cases that is not of course the case. The Christian Union asked, like D66, whether criminal law would not also provide sufficient relief. We have actually talked about this in detail. Mrs Van Tongeren asked whether it was possible to conduct an urgent procedure with the criminal court. I had doubts as to whether I understood the question correctly, but let me at least give the answer that it is possible to carry out an urgent procedure with the administrative judge. Under the circumstances, you can ask the administrative judge to suspend or suspend the decisions I take. That's how we're used to it in our legal system. It's possible. An urgent procedure is provided for, the ordinary and usual interim supply procedure before the administrative court if this would be justified. Then I'll get to the legal protection section. Mrs Swinkels, as well as Mrs Gesthuizen, asked how the procedure we are going to follow relates to the fact that someone cannot be present. Mr Recourt also asked about this. In principle, the person concerned will not be able to be present, because the decision on depriving the Netherlands has already been taken and is subsequently appealed against. That means that someone has no title to come back to the Netherlands legally. If, for any reason, the person concerned considers that important, then the risk of arrest is so high that I do not think it will happen soon. However, if the person concerned were to find it important, it would be possible to obtain access to the Netherlands through the courts in the event of a preliminary appeal. However, it must be said that I cannot rule out the choice of the criminal route and the detention of the person concerned, no matter how complicated that may be for the person concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u283	I see that Mrs Van Tongeren has a question, but we are waiting for all the answers to the question of legal protection. Then I'll allow for interruptions. I'll be the first to write you down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u284	Mrs Swinkels asked how it would be if nationality had been withdrawn, but it later took the view that this would have happened wrongly. The guarantee is, of course, that the judge will check whether there are sufficient grounds and whether the balance of interests is sufficiently careful. It is therefore clear that the balance of interests that has taken place by the Minister is, in all cases, subject to individual judicial review. The chance of being said later that both the judge and the minister saw it all wrong is, of course, not so great. Mrs. Swinkels knows that; she was a judge herself. However, after a period of time, you can stand up to the undesirable foreigner's statement, which is part of this bill. This possibility is part of ordinary foreign law, perhaps Mrs Swinkels knows it better than I do. This may mean that there will be another balancing of interests and it will be considered whether someone has not become an undesirable stranger. That person still does not remain a Dutchman, but he can get access to the Netherlands, for example. Next, according to ordinary nationality law, you can be eligible for Dutch citizenship again. But in the event that someone was part of a terrorist organization, that may not be very obvious. Mr Segers had a question on judicial review. On the basis of the documents, a number of spokesmen asked whether prior scrutiny would not be wise. Mrs Van Tongeren has said something about this and I believe that Mr Segers is also in the written preparation of this debate. In the written exchange, we found that ex ante review would be a fundamental revision of the relationship between legislator, administration and judge. Mr Recourt was right to point that out in his speech. In this legislative proposal, because of the importance of legal protection and because of the problem of non-being in the Netherlands, I have provided for the automatic establishment of an appeal. I understand very well that some parties and spokesmen have great difficulty with this and try to put an end to it with an amendment. But all things considered, I think that we have opted for very careful legal protection in this bill. We have dealt with the registry rights on the basis of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u285	But before we go to the Registry Rights, there are at least two interruptions, of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u286	No, this is all still part of the legal protection block. I've got a whole pile left. The question of how the person concerned is informed of the decision to withdraw from the Netherlands is also relevant for legal protection. We follow the normal publication agreed by law and regulation. In many cases it will not be available. Then it will be published in the Official Journal. That's the usual way. We have already talked about the possibility that the person concerned will not be aware of this and that it will therefore be provided for in the case of an automatic appeal. Ms. Swinkels asked if there was any possibility of objecting to a blacklisting of an organization. A listing may be referred to the court for review of individual decisions and may therefore be part of the appeal procedure. Of course, the organisation will be placed on the list with the utmost care. This list will also be more limited than the European list which led to the freezing of the assets of individuals and organisations, because it concerns organisations participating in armed conflict and threatening our national security. It is therefore a question of terrorist organisations. Mrs Van Tongeren wondered whether the Minister would not be given too much power and I think that is a good question. If it serves national security, I do not think it is necessarily a bad thing if the minister is given a lot of power. However, I do think it is important that if the Minister is given a great deal of power, I do not know if it is on the basis of this bill, so I would like to leave that to Mrs Van Tongeren about the power that extends as far as the judge accepts. I think this is a very sensible starting point in the Netherlands. In addition, the Court can and will assess the functioning of the law in the context of the evaluation. I have answered the questions about the judicial test, attending the trial and the review. I have come to the end of the legal protection block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u287	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg and then to Mrs Van Toorenburg. I see that Mr Recourt also has a question, so he can ask it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u288	There are, in fact, two points from the Minister's extensive speech on which I would like to ask a question. Let me start with the first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u289	May I indeed suggest that we begin with the first point, so that Mr Recourt can then make the second point? Then we clearly separate it into two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u290	Quite right, Mr. Chairman. This law was necessary because we may have two or four cases a year where criminal law is not sufficient. The Minister then says that people who are abroad and whose Dutch citizenship has been taken away will not come to the Netherlands before the trial, because they will be arrested as soon as they are in the Netherlands and we will apply criminal law. I really don't understand any of that. The whole reason and reason for this law was precisely that criminal law did not give the Minister sufficient resources to guarantee national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u291	Just for the record, criminal law implies that we can hold someone. That does not have to be the case in all cases, and then sentencing by default is possible, but in general the importance of applying criminal law lies in the fact that someone is in the Netherlands and that we can take someone into custody. Then we can ensure that someone is convicted for a criminal offence. That is the normal functioning of criminal law. These are people who are not in the Netherlands and therefore cannot be taken into custody, but from whom we do not want them to return to the Netherlands because they are a threat to national security. So these are two different quantities. One may be related to another, but that has not been said. That is why I am taking this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u292	If these people are not in the Netherlands, they are not a threat to national security. Then they're in Syria, Iraq or some other country. If they do then enter the Netherlands, they can be arrested at the time they enter. In that case, why is such an incredibly severe sanction necessary as the removal of nationality? I've really lost my touch. I thought the Minister always claimed that there is room between criminal law and the form of a threat, but that criminal law does not give judgment and that he therefore applies this sanction. But now the Minister says: we do not know for sure whether or not we will be able to pick them up and therefore take them away from nationality beforehand, so that they cannot understand the plan to travel back to the Netherlands and so that they can never become a threat to Dutch security. Surely the Minister cannot really claim that this is the basis for this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u293	That is why the Minister is claiming something quite different. I would like to refer Mrs Van Tongeren to the law. The law aims to prevent people from returning to the Netherlands. I cannot follow Mrs Van Tongeren's reasoning that a person of Dutch nationality fighting for ISIS in Syria and Iraq and possibly being trained to return to the Netherlands would not pose a threat to national security. I refer to the AIVD's post and to the Erasmus University's report. If people are members of a terrorist organisation, have Dutch nationality, have the possibility to return to the Netherlands legally and can do so without being seen, which is of course what this is all about, then they can pose a danger to national security. If they then return to the Netherlands, if we know where they are and if we can arrest them, we will. Then we'll make sure they're locked up and convicted. Subsequently, the criminal court may still deprive them of their nationality. However, I cannot follow Mrs Van Tongeren's thinking that someone fighting at ISIS and possibly being trained to return to the Netherlands and commit an attack would not be a threat to national security. The other interpretation of what I would have said is not in line with what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u294	The Minister just said that sometimes it might prevent a mistake from being made. It may be that the Minister has made a good balance of interests, that there has been judicial review, but that it has gone wrong, perhaps because of a dramatic change of personality or something else. Do I understand correctly that, in this extremely exceptional situation, we always have Article 17, so that people can appeal? That's how I read the law, and that's how I understood the minister, but I'm gonna need confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u295	I just said that the junk could be called into question. For this we have agreed a certain period in the Netherlands. I am not entirely 100% in foreign law, I say in all honesty, but there is that possibility. If at the end of the day that would lead to a withdrawal of the undesirable foreigner's declaration, then in principle Dutch nationality can also be acquired. However, you will have to meet the new requirements again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u296	Fine. It's important to know for sure. If a dramatic mistake could have been made somewhere, there is always an additional legal protection, namely a recovery, the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u297	I go on to the question that Mrs...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u298	First there is a question from Mr Recourt. Then Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Helder have questions for you. So we're gonna keep going on at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u299	We are not allowed to go home yet, but this is an important subject. I had asked questions about the kafkaesque situation in which, in my view, the whole procedure is being dealt with, after which the person himself finds out that all this has happened. He says: I actually have something to say about my own business, because what you have done is very nice, but it doesn't quite add up. What possibilities does he have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u300	That's a good question. I think that the possibilities are very limited, because the judge has given a ruling on the basis of his own action. Mr Recourt has not been a judge for a long time, but he has been a Member of Parliament for a long time. Let me remind you that the judge is generally reviewing. He doesn't do that for nothing. He doesn't do that on nothing either. If the judge considers that in the specific case, in the balance of interests he has applied, the Minister has rightly withdrawn nationality, you may also ask yourself what news the person concerned could bring which would lead to a different balance in court. I don't think there's much chance of that, but I can't rule anything out. Mr Recourt will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u301	It's true it's been a while, but I do remember you testing on the basis of facts. Those facts may be just as different if the person concerned itself is usually concerned with him or her being able to say that it is not true what has been said and if he can justify it. Once again, I find it very bizarre that we are going through a whole process outside of someone who has absolutely nothing to say about it and who, at the time he becomes aware of it, has no influence whatsoever on it. "Kafkaesk" is really the only thing that pops into my head. In short, is there no possibility of revision? I can hardly imagine that. Is that possible for the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u302	I'd like to figure that out just in case for the second term. We are still talking about someone who has not been able to take note of the fact that the process is taking place. He was in Syria or Iraq, was part of a terrorist organisation in the judge's opinion and was associated with it on the basis of conduct actually established by the minister, but also by the judge. Then someone would say: I was actually there to bring flowers out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u303	This is an important point. I give Mr Recourt an opportunity for a brief final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u304	My defense is: that's my twin brother, I was in Australia and I can prove it, too. In short, reality is always crazier than we can imagine. That's the point. There's always a case where the net is different than we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u305	I shall return to Mr Recourt in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u306	I am also very interested in this answer. One of my questions in an interrupting debate was: is there never a judicial error possible and what do we do? The minister just said that this law will stand as long as the judge accepts it. Does the Minister not agree with me that there is a difference between the substantive judgment of the criminal court on the concrete factual complex and the consideration of the administrative judge in this law? The latter shall consider all interests concerned and shall consider whether withdrawal was reasonably justified. There's a difference, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u307	With this bill, we have arranged for the administrative judge, with all the powers vested in the administrative judge, to review the Minister's decision on the basis of the facts and on the basis of the balance of interests. That is exactly the same consideration that the administrative judge always makes, in all government decisions that are far-reaching for residents. This also applies in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u308	My question in my first part was whether there is no difference between the criminal court, which can impose incredibly severe sanctions, and the administrative court. The Minister's answer is that the administrative judge is reviewing it. I know that, but my question was whether the criminal test, which is based on the substance of the case, is not much stronger. As a result of Mr Recourt's interruption, I would like to ask whether there is any possibility that there might be a mistake in that. Is the administrative judge 100% reliable in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u309	I cannot, of course, answer Mrs Van Tongeren's last question. She'll understand that, too. Of course, there is always the possibility of human error, but that means that first the Minister makes his balance of interests wrong and then the judge's review is not going well. There is, of course, a difference between criminal law and administrative law for the simple reason that these are punitive measures in criminal law. It leads to deprivation of liberty and other far-reaching measures. In this particular case, this is a preventive measure which means that someone no longer has the opportunity to return legally to the Netherlands. Of course, there's a difference. That is why it is also an administrative measure and not a criminal measure. There is, however, a criminal law measure with the same effect. Not too long ago we exchanged views on this. But you'll have to have a criminal trial first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u310	Mrs Helder, I think you still had two unanswered questions. I would like to give you the opportunity to ask the Minister again. The Minister can answer that and then you can see if you still want to interrupt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u311	I think it would be useful to ask only the first question, namely the one on the Aliens Act. My question was whether there was a hole. In my view, legal protection also includes the possibility for travellers who have been staying outside the Netherlands for ten years to return. Does the Foreigner's Act provide enough measures to keep them out of this door because of the national importance of protecting security? That was my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u312	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Will this question perhaps come back to you later in your answer, among other points?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u313	I don't think so. I have said that this possibility does exist after 10 years. Let me take that last point into account in the second term, because that does not alter the fact that nationality has been withdrawn. Someone can stand up to declaring an unwanted stranger after ten years, I know that. I'm just gonna make sure that means exactly what that means. I just dropped my papers in the speaker chair. I didn't know that was possible. I've discovered a novel, Mr. Chairman. You can drop your papers here in some sort of mailbox and then they just disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u314	The camera can't see all that, but we'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u315	Let me show you in front of the camera. Watch this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u316	I was hoping the Minister would get down on his knees now, but unfortunately that didn't happen. He made the messenger do it. Anyway, I get the answer in the second term. My other question was about the suspensive effect. In the event of the withdrawal of the Dutch citizenship, the Minister shall of his own motion inform the court of the decision he has taken, with the result that the person concerned is deemed to have brought an action. My question was whether the General Administrative Law Act applies here too, which says that it does not lead to suspensive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u317	Yes. There's no suspensive effect. Of course, it would be very weird if it were. Mrs Helder is absolutely right about that. That would mean that my own appeal against a decision I take in the context of national security would then suspend that decision on national security. No, it has no suspensive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u318	The Minister continues and then I think we can move on to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u319	I had two more questions in this block. Mr Recourt and Mrs Tellegen asked about the functioning of Article 8 of the ECHR. So how does this balance of interests take place? If a person is declared undesirable, I shall take a look at the junk declaration........................................................................................................................................................................................ The balance of interests naturally balances the interests of the State, which, if national security is at stake, weighs very heavily against the interests of the person concerned. I have indicated that, in general terms, minority is taken into account. It is not entirely unthinkable that the interests of the individual in a case may outweigh the interests of the State. If that is the case, it will not be necessary to make a statement about this and, therefore, about the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. I think that I can be expected to take care of this balance of interests at all times. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked whether it was possible that the person concerned had already committed certain conduct for which this measure could be applied before entering the territory in which the conflict took place. I think that's possible, for example, if we find out later that someone's guilty of something. Then we will look into the balance of interests whether we want to have the opportunity to prosecute such a person on a criminal basis, if we have reason to believe that this is feasible, or whether we would rather not want someone to return to the Netherlands legally, just to be sure. I'll get to the other block. Mr Recourt asked how to prevent someone from entering the Netherlands on the refugee route after the withdrawal of the Netherlands. The safety valve we have there is, of course, the Schengen Information System. At the moment someone loses Dutch nationality, he is spotted in the SIS. This does not allow legitimate access to the Schengen area. This does not, of course, mean that he cannot gain access illegally, but the return is very difficult. Moreover, many measures are currently being taken in Europe to ensure that, for example on the basis of fingerprints but also on the basis of facial recognition, the possibility of picking someone out of a box of refugees is created. Mr Recourt asked whether the Minister was concerned that this would lead to further radicalisation. No, I don't have that concern. I think it is precisely this medicine that can lead to prevention, as I said to Mrs Van Toorenburg. To the extent that radicalised people who are considering travelling to an area such as ISIS can still make a rational assessment, this bill could contribute to that rational balancing, because it may be realized that returning has become very complicated. Mr Segers asked whether children should not be excluded from the functioning of the bill. The answer to that question is: no, because we have now been informed, among other things, by means of media coverage that it cannot be ruled out that children are trained very young by organisations like ISIS to be employable. This is an important reason why the bill should apply to minors in principle. This naturally applies to the balance of interests which must also respect and respect the right to family life and other aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u320	Mrs. Gesthuizen is standing by the interrupting microphone. I'll let the Minister finish his answers first. Then we'll do the last of the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u321	I have a few more, so I think Mrs Gesthuizen would be wise to sit down for a while, but it is of course her right to go and stand wherever she wants. Mr President, you will understand that, of course, it makes me nervous, because the interruptions of Mrs Gesthuizen are generally of such a nature that it makes it relatively easy to get nervous as a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u322	I think this is entrapment, but we're gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u323	No, I'm gonna move on. Mr Segers asked me to explain the delegation of a number of powers on the basis of the legislative proposal. The main rule is that the main elements of the standard setting must be included in the formal law. That is also the case in this case. The criteria for the application of the law, including, therefore, the element of affiliation, are laid down in the law and explained in detail in the written documents, which in turn is a tool for the judicial review. The criteria for the balancing of interests were discussed in the opinion of the Court of Justice of the Council of State. There are several aspects to the balance of interests. The security services will have to issue a notice of office on good grounds. Without notice of office, there will usually be no information on the basis of which the Dutchmanship can be withdrawn. The Minister will then balance efficiency and proportionality, again on the basis of the delegation under the law. This involves all circumstances relating to the conduct of the person and the possibility of criminal prosecution. This assessment will also take into account issues that are important for the possibility of wanking, such as the family ties in the Netherlands. The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is only effective if the person concerned can subsequently be declared undesirable. Finally, of course, this balance of interests also has a European dimension, weighing the loss of Union citizenship and the related rights against the importance of national security. I therefore consider it sufficient to regulate these aspects at AMvB on the basis of the legal possibilities. Mrs Tellegen asked why she did not agree with the wording of joining the foreign military service. That's a purely terminological issue. The usual terminology is "entering into foreign military service" and in an organization one generally speaks of "connecting," with the fact that this takes a much more difficult form in a terrorist organisation than in the foreign military service. In foreign military service, we all have an image; these are generally reasonably organized armies, with care being taken to recognise those involved. Of course, this is not the case with terrorist organisations. Then I come to Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Gesthuizen's point about informing the country of second nationality. There has already been extensive discussion with the Chamber on the withdrawal of passports to prevent exit. We simply have to take into account, once again, the demands of our own rule of law, but also those of European law. This means that any information that the Netherlands provides to other countries, to third countries, including with regard to the withdrawal of nationalities, must always consider what the consequences may be for those concerned. This consideration is carefully considered, but it is, of course, in the interests of our national security that other countries are also aware of it. The starting point is therefore, as I pointed out in the past in response to a motion by Mr Oskam, that this information is provided, unless there are serious reasons why this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u324	I still think, considering the...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u325	Mrs Van Toorenburg, we'll be doing the interruptions at the end. Mrs. Gesthuizen has been waiting for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u326	I thought the minister was ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u327	No, he's not done yet. He just said he still has a lot of questions to answer. I wrote you down as second, after Mrs. Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u328	Mr Segers had a question on the same point: the difference between entering foreign military service and joining a terrorist organisation. I just explained that. I will answer Mrs Helder's question. The junk declaration shall have an indefinite period of validity. Is Mrs. Helder even in the room? Otherwise, I'll skip her question until Mrs. Helder gets back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u329	You'll come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u330	Mr Bishop asked about bald nationality. We have had this debate with the SGP Group on a number of occasions. This point is primarily in the hands of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. He's about the implementation of citizenship. A number of crimes, of course, are foreseen, as Mr Bishop knows, that democratic rights can be deprived. This is seen in the Netherlands as a very, very severe punishment. The judge may only apply this to very serious offences. I'm in agreement on that. I also know that the Minister of the Interior has received this question from the SGP Group. That's what's under consideration. I'm assuming he'll report on that in due course. I come to Mrs Helder's second question. It asked whether border controls are necessary for the implementation and enforcement of the junk declaration. These are not necessary on the Dutch border. Border controls are carried out at the external Schengen borders. It is important that the persons whose nationality is withdrawn have been identified in the Schengen Information System. That brings me to the end of the last question. I am going to answer Mrs Helder's question in ten years' time. I think it is essential that I raise that point just as well. The junk declaration shall have an indefinite period of validity, as well as the withdrawal of nationality. The person concerned may, however, ask for a waiver. That request shall be assessed on the basis of the case law of the Court of Justice in the light of the rules on the lifting of an entry ban. The person who is a danger to national security may be subject to an entry ban for a period of 20 years. This means that, at least after 20 years, the undesired declaration, which will continue thereafter, is eligible for abolition. After the first ten years, however, an assessment is possible at the request of the foreigner. If the Minister concludes at that time that the danger to national security has not disappeared, it is decided to continue the junk declaration. I hope that will also answer Mrs Van Toorenburg's question. The possibilities are there, but then you must have a good story. This brings me to the end of the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u331	In any case, two interruptions have already been reported by Mrs Gesthuizen and Mrs Van Toorenburg. I also see Mrs Tellegen and Mr Segers standing. I'll write you down in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u332	Many of the arguments that have been exchanged here this evening are against me, not because I am opposed to jihadism and counter-terrorism, but because important principles that make our rule of law our rule of law are being thrown overboard. What the Minister said earlier in a brief explanation of questions from, I believe, Mr Recourt on children, does not really mean to me. The Minister uses the example of children who might be 9, 10, 11 or 12 years old, but could already be indoctrinated in such a way that they pose a danger to the Dutch state. That can be done, but would it not be particularly heartless to say that children should be treated in the manner proposed by the Minister? All these children, regardless of their age, have a special position and deserve our protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u333	I fully understand Mrs Gesthuizen's involvement in children. I have also indicated that the balance of interests between minors must be extremely careful. However, I would draw Mrs Gesthuizen's attention to the following. According to reports from Erasmus University, according to the report of the AIVD and according to various media reports, supported by very, very shocking video material, it happens that in ISIS area children of very young age execute prisoners, decapitate people, and are trained to commit attacks, there and possibly in the West. We must continue to look at both aspects: on the one hand, the importance of the child and, on the other hand, the risk of these children and the deliberate conscious education of children by organisations such as ISIS, as can actually be seen from the most horrible videos available on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u334	Mrs. Gesthuizen, a brief follow-up question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u335	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I do not want you to be able to punish children who can make it and escape the claws of ISIS in a very different way when they return to the Netherlands, namely through our criminal law, and then it is up to the court to apply the law on minors or perhaps, after consideration, to apply the law on multiple-year-olds or at least to help them, because they remain children. It doesn't mean anything to me that it can't do otherwise than with the cold reality of: you know what, we're pulling our hands all the way from you, what happened to you is your problem, so figure it out. That's impossible, isn't it? So what is the rule of law that the Minister wishes to defend here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u336	I do not quite understand what Mrs Gesthuizen has in mind. We note that children who are part of this issue need to be treated very carefully. The balance of interests will then weigh extremely heavily. Article 8 of the ECHR has also been mentioned in this context. However, we also note that there can be very high risks for children who commit the most horrible crimes in the ISIS area and who are also undergoing structural training for them. Mrs Gesthuizen then says: you can also deal with them criminally. Yeah, but we're gonna have to find them in time. Then there is the next question. If you see, on the basis of information held by the court, that a minor has committed such conduct as to be covered by this law, will you, in the interest of national security, take the risk that such a child, when he is older, will return to the Netherlands, possibly unnoticed because he can legally access the Schengen area and thus travel to the Netherlands or another country in the Schengen area and commit an attack there? I think that is precisely the balance of interests that is at stake here. You're gonna have to do it carefully, but I'm not gonna rule it out to the detriment of the minor involved. And I think, quite frankly, that this law also obliges it to do so because then, being judged by the judge, there are serious concerns about the effects of such a person on national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u337	That is precisely why the CDA is in favour of the balancing of interests. I would like to raise another issue, namely what the Minister said about the country of second nationality. I find it hard to believe that sometimes we are surprised because we have not been informed. Isn't that supposed to be the highest goal? Can't the Minister give a little more explanation? Because even if there might be repercussions on one person, isn't it still the responsibility of the Dutch State to inform anyway? Yes, it may be that one person is affected, but I also do not want a major bombing in a tourist attraction in Morocco because we felt sorry that Morocco knew that this Moroccan national had joined ISIS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u338	I fully agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that these aspects should be taken into account in the balance of interests. That is why I cannot answer in a general way. I can't say we always do it. I can't say we never do it. Both would be wrong. But if it has to and if there is sufficient reason, it will happen. However, this is also subject to individual consideration, as is the case with the expiry of passports. There, too, you have to make the same assessment. However, please note that in this particular case, according to the court, it has been established on the basis of facts that the Dutch national security is at stake, which justifies the withdrawal of nationality. That's a different situation than someone we're worried about just a potential exit. There really is a difference in the balance of interests between declaring passports to lapse and providing information to other countries and this case, where, on the basis of behaviour, you actually find that someone is a member of a terrorist organisation and national security, including according to the judge, justifies the withdrawal of nationality. Then it is much less obvious that we are concerned about repercussions, but the balance of interests is required.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u339	Mrs Van Toorenburg, a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u340	Now the Minister makes it clear, because in fact there is hardly any situation that we can imagine on the basis of which we do not report it to a country, because people in other countries are nice to us and we want to prevent them from being victimized. It cannot be that we regard the protection of one person as so high that we allow people in Morocco to be the victims. I really don't think we can take that responsibility. Then we'll just have to tell them, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u341	But that's where Mrs Van Toorenburg and I find each other. When that situation occurs where other innocent people would be at risk of becoming victims of such a person if we didn't report it, that is obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u342	I'll come back to the minors. That's a bone in my throat, isn't it? The minister says that a 10-year-old can travel back and come in unnoticed and disappear from sight. At the same time, that could be the 10-year-old of whom we have all the information leading to the withdrawal of the passport and Dutch citizenship. First of all, can't someone come in unnoticed when we have all that information? At least I hope that doesn't happen. Secondly, do we not distinguish between the treatment of adults and minors? We recorded that in the Netherlands, didn't we? Then it can't be that this distinction seems to disappear completely here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u343	I have raised this issue in detail. I also explained in detail where exactly the nuance is, because there is nuance. You deal with minors, with children, of course, differently than with adults, because of the importance Mr Segers sets out. However, we also know that there are minors who we have to worry about. I have shown this in quite detail and I have also shown it in the reports, which are really very reading and shocking in this respect. It does make a difference if you're talking about a 10-year-old or a 16-year-old. In both cases it is a minor, but the effective power of the two is different. Moreover, in ISIS area there are also 10-year-olds and 12-year-olds doing things that Mr Segers and I do not think it is possible for a child to do. We must therefore be realistic on the one hand, but, on the other hand, we must establish that a child is a child for which we have endured. We will also release an extra careful test. And, of course, Article 8 of the ECHR is also involved, on the right to family life. So there's this whole balance of interests. They're not the same, and I never said they were. There really needs to be careful consideration. It's a far-reaching measure. We can weigh up and then come to the conclusion that the measure to take away a person's nationality is justified, regardless of whether it is someone under 18 years of age. If, on the basis of the facts, the court finds that the measure is justified, that is the test we are creating here together, then the person concerned, who may also be a minor, is therefore a danger to national security and that justifies the measure. However, I fully agree with the point that the judge will also have to check the same standards for minors, and that he will have to do so very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u344	This is indeed quite similar to the answer given earlier to a question from Mrs Gesthuizen. I'd like a brief follow-up question, so we can move on quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u345	Sure. In any event, it would be useful if the balancing framework, which is now being prepared through an AMvB, were to be at least broadly balanced and perhaps also submitted to the Chamber. We are talking about very far-reaching decisions, precisely because it affects the distinction between adults and minors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u346	Yes and no, because in the AMvB you can't explain exactly how you're going to make that trade-off. These are individual cases, regardless of how we organise information. Mr Segers should not expect the AMvB to state precisely that the measure applies in the situation where a minor of that age and that age has done so and that the measure does not apply in all other cases. The balance is tailored to the person and also to the person reviewed by the judge. This ensures that a decision is taken carefully. That is also right, because minors are not mature, but they are capable of very serious crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u347	For the Acts, I ask the Minister if the AMvB will be presented to the Chamber. That is what Mr Segers' question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u348	I'd be happy to send the AMvB to the Chamber for information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u349	Okay. That commitment was made by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u350	A minor who has one nationality and who does something horrible under pressure and coercion will come back to the Netherlands and will be punished and re-socialised here. A minor who probably also grew up in the Netherlands but still has a second nationality, and has done exactly the same horrific thing, cannot even enter the Netherlands to be punished and resocialized here. Let us leave such a child or a younger child to his fate because he is indoctrinated and educated there and there is a risk that he will do something here in the Netherlands? Is that why we're taking our hands off that child or the younger one? This is not in line with the international conventions on children's rights, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u351	Being a member of a terrorist organisation is also not in accordance with international conventions on children's rights. That is the only basis for taking this measure. Mrs Van Tongeren asks what is the difference between a person who has two nationalities and a person who has one nationality, but we discussed this extensively in the previous debate. Minister Hirsch Ballin didn't remember this in 2002, so I'm not sure if it was in 2002 that it wasn't two people who are equal, but two people who are equal. That is also generally accepted. That justifies the fact that on that basis you can take a different view. I have explained this on the basis of judgments of the European Court of Justice, on the basis of case law and on the basis of the fact that the Treaties also explicitly allow the withdrawal of second nationality, as is the case in more countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u352	This point has indeed been raised quite extensively. Mrs Van Tongeren, a brief follow-up question if you have a new point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u353	The consideration of Hirsch Ballin did not apply to this particular bill, because that was not at the time. The Minister gathers all sorts of little things. I don't see where the minister is laying the line anymore. What's the lower limit for him? What part of the rule of law are we going to protect if we even take children's nationality away from them and leave them to the wild dogs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u354	I am very sorry, but I do not see any reason to go into this point. What Mrs Van Tongeren says is not at all what I say. It is not at all in line with the careful response I have given to Mr Segers' questions on how we deal with children. I have responded very comprehensively to that. There is no link to the paraphrase given by Mrs Van Tongeren. I don't think so. That doesn't fit me. Then I come to Mrs Van Toorenbrug's question, which is the last question I have yet to answer. I could answer that in the second term, but I can also try to do so now. That was the point of those one and two behaviors. I see now that Mrs. Helder is coming in. I say to her that I have just given an extensive answer to two of her questions. I have tried to wait for Mrs Helder because I know she attaches great importance to the answer. But I fear that I shall now have to refer her to the Acts on the issue of the undesirable foreigner's statement. It's a little better than I just said. You can ask after a few years, but you don't have to. It is not necessary, because there is also an open-ended statement, but there are opportunities to stand up to it. Mrs Helder also asked another question, but I refer her to the Acts for the answer. Mrs Van Toorenburg referred to the question of one or two behaviours on page 6 of the explanatory memorandum. I'm gonna try to answer that. We have to establish together that it is a theoretical exercise, and that is why Mrs Van Toorenburg and I do like it so that we can see exactly how we come to the right decision. On page 6 I explained what I understood under the words "integrating into a terrorist organisation." I have the passage here. If I take a look at it myself, I can see that it may indeed have a little more explaining to do than is desirable. This is what this is all about. We need an intention to join a terrorist organisation and carry out actual acts. If that is the case, the requirement that behaviour shows that someone has joined will in principle be met. In practical terms, this cannot be a single conduct, but it is not a cumulative provision consisting of three elements. This consists of two elements, namely the intention to join which is demonstrated by factual acts defined as conduct. That must be several, but that can of course also be quite simple. I would like to refer to page 6. It is therefore a combination of factual acts and the intention shown by the conduct of the person concerned. So you have two elements that are sufficient to conclude that someone has joined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u355	This, I believe, concerns the amendment to item No. 11, if I'm right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u356	Yes, that related to the amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u357	Can you reach an opinion on that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u358	The opinion is that I will have to discourage the amendment. I now come to Mr Recourt's question on the revision. What if, because of all the circumstances, it is true that the person concerned is saying that a very big mistake has been made? In principle, we have the starting point that the legal proceedings must have an end somewhere. This applies to all areas of law, but I do not need to explain this to Mr Recourt. There is no possibility of revision of any judicial decision or of a ministerial decision. If, despite all due diligence and judicial review, loss of nationality would be unjustified, a person could obtain nationality under Article 14, third paragraph, after five years and after hearing from the Council of State. Someone will already be able to be admitted to Dutch territory as a foreigner, i.e. if the junk declaration is lifted. So you can cancel the operation of not being allowed to return to the Netherlands. At the same time, there is the possibility of obtaining nationality under Article 14, third paragraph, after five years and after the Council of State has been heard. Both elements have thus been de facto undone. That is possible, but there is no revision of the court ruling. It won't move. Mr President, this brings me to the end of my first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u359	The assessment of the amendment in respect of item No. Mr Bishop's 18 is still open, but you have promised that there will still be a further vote before the vote...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u360	Yes, I know Mr Bishop attaches great importance to textexegesis. I will send them to the Chamber in writing with reference to the correct paragraph numbers and the intention of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u361	At least there are two more questions for you, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u362	I specifically wanted to hear from the Minister about the lock-in. Has the legal basis actually been established on the basis of Article 197 of the Code of Criminal Law? That's what I asked for. Moreover, I had asked whether it would be appropriate to include all travellers, either the 240 who have travelled or the 48 who are on the list of Minister Koenders. These two questions of mine have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u363	I am giving the Minister the opportunity to answer those questions right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u364	Yes, I will. I'll start with the last question. Apparently, I skipped the first one. On the last point... Now I'm looking and thinking at the same time and that's not going well. Mrs Van Toorenburg has asked whether all travellers should not be on the list. That depends on whether there is a sufficient basis for achieving that balance of interest, but in theory it can. As I have indicated in the documents, that is not the immediate expectation, but it is true that, in the case of all travellers, the Public Prosecutor's Office makes files of this kind, so that criminal action can be taken at least if possible. It is not excluded that a number or a large part of it could also be covered by this law, but this can only be done if there is sufficient basis to allow the decision to be enforced in a judicial review.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u365	But then there is a very big gap between the zero to ten which the Minister thinks they can use this law, the 48 that are on the terrorist list or the 240 that are there now. Can the Minister admit that zero to ten is perhaps a little low-rated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u366	I have already indicated that the bill was written in 2014, that we are now two years ahead and that society looks something different than it was then. That was already the subject of the debate with Mrs Tellegen. Now I'm trying to find the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u367	I'll give the Minister a quiet time to answer the other question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u368	That's not working out very well at the moment. Perhaps Mrs Tellegen can start her question. I'll do it all at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u369	What if that's not a problem for the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u370	We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u371	Then I'm going to talk very slowly. It is about Article 8 of the ECHR. That was briefly discussed, but I asked a specific question about it. Can the Minister confirm that Article 8 of the ECHR can never be established in advance to prevent an undesirable statement, but that all individual circumstances, and in this case also the loss of Dutch citizenship, must always be weighed up? I have heard the Minister briefly about Article 8 of the ECHR, but not about that particular question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u372	The whole review of decisions that you take as ministers, whether it is an junk statement or a withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, should of course be done carefully in all cases, weighing up all interests, including the consideration in the context of Article 8 ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u373	But never in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u374	Never before?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u375	That is what it says in the explanatory memorandum. That seems to me to be a threshold for individual consideration. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u376	I will answer this point in the second term. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about Article 197 of the Criminal Code. It states that a stranger who has been declared undesirable but still resides in the Netherlands can be punished by a prison sentence of up to six months or a fine of the third category. A person whose Dutch citizenship has been withdrawn, who has been declared undesirable and returns to the Netherlands can therefore also be prosecuted and detained. In addition, they can of course be prosecuted for terrorist offences, assuming that they have now been established in such a way that the judge has agreed to withdraw the Dutch citizenship on this basis. So we also have a legal basis for further criminal prosecution of the withdrawal of the Dutch citizenship and for including it when they return to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u377	For the record, I would like to know whether someone can be taken into custody on the basis of that junk statement. It is actually a matter which should be subject to a higher penalty, but I think it is one of those. In any case, I am concerned that we have a new hook on the basis of which you can secure someone who will return anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u378	I'll have to check it out. It says here, of course, six months. In principle, we apply the principle that pre-trial detention is four years. Whether an exception has been made to this rule in the Code of Criminal Law is not something I can see so quickly. So I'll take a look at that in the second term. I had hoped that I could answer that question in one go, but now I'm going to try it in the second run.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u379	Before we move on to the second term, there will be a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u380	After consulting the spokesmen, I propose to suspend for five minutes and then proceed with the second term of office. We would like to finish this debate tonight and have agreed to hold a short second time limit with a speaking time of up to two minutes per group, and also to limit the interruptions to items that have not been raised in the first period. This is how we can bring this debate to a successful conclusion tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u381	Mr Bishop has indicated that he will waive his second term, so I would be the first to give the floor to Mrs Tellegen of the VVD. We have agreed a speaking time of two minutes per group, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u382	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. On a few points, however, I do not entirely follow him, first of all when it comes to the desire of the VVD and the CDA to withdraw nationality on the basis of one behavior. It is already a cumulative requirement, namely to endorse the purpose of the terrorist organisation, in the opinion of the VVD, this can also be done on the basis of a single practice and factual actions. These two are always considered in conjunction with each other as a condition for the withdrawal of nationality. I would also like to comment on the two amendments tabled by the SGP and the VVD, which lay down that even in the event that someone succeeds in returning and is absolutely certain that he or she has joined a terrorist organisation, he or she must be able to lose nationality. It shouldn't matter at home or abroad. In relation to the other amendment, the VVD goes too far to decide to withdraw its nationality automatically. It is precisely for this reason that the VVD considers it important for the Minister to be obliged to take a decision to withdraw, but with the guarantee that ex post or review is always possible. That seemed to us to be a good middle ground between, on the one hand, nationality and, on the other hand, a nice tightening up of this law. I would also like to address the issue of statelessness. I have heard the Minister on the motion, which is indeed there. In concrete terms, I have the following question to ask him. I understand that he is not prepared to amend the treaties we are now bound to, but is he prepared to discuss this with his colleagues, to see if there are any other ways of solving this problem? I still find it crooked that we are dealing with this for people with a double nationality but not for people with a single nationality. Finally, the VVD supports this law. A jihadganger who turns against the Netherlands does not deserve to be Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u383	Madam President. I thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer. In all honesty, I must say that there is still some doubt in the Christian Union. That's in two key points. Is it really necessary? And does it have to go through administrative law? We have agreed to the criminal route towards the taking of Dutch citizenship, or at least the creation of the possibility for that, but there is doubt about the administrative route. A specific point concerns minors. That is what we have been interrupting. It may well be that there will be another change with a number of colleagues, but I think that Mr Gesthuizen will say more about this. Finally, I would like to touch on a very specific point, namely the relationship between administrative law and criminal law and the review. In administrative law, we only have an ex post review, but administrative law also has opportunities to review in a different way. This is becoming increasingly urgent, because we are using administrative law more often to combat terrorist activities. There are, however, other possibilities, such as the leave system or the possibility of suspending a decision and allowing it to enter into force only after the court has considered it. In addition, the new Wiv, the Intelligence and Security Services Act, introduces a kind of review committee. That is why I propose the next motion, which states that it would be good to investigate current and new possibilities for ex ante scrutiny. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in order to prevent terrorist attacks, a number of legislative proposals have recently been tabled which propose far-reaching administrative measures;]] [[Whereas these decisions are subject to ex post review, there is currently no possibility for administrative law to ex ante review of decisions and also the intensity of the test by the administrative judge may vary;]] [[Whereas it may be desirable to introduce other or more intensive forms of review into administrative law in the relevant legislative proposals;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify and assess the current possibilities, to examine whether new forms of administrative review are desirable and to inform the Court about their results at the beginning of 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34356-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u384	My final sentence is that we will make the final assessment in the group. The result will be evident at Tuesday's votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u385	Madam President. I listened with interest to the Minister's answer, including my questions. My conclusion, even after this answer, is that this is a very far-reaching punitive measure in which D66 remains of the opinion that it should not be applied outside the courts. We are still very concerned about whether it is a fair trial and whether the person concerned will not end up in a Kafka situation, because the person concerned will not be able to attend his trial. The Minister has not been able to hear this either. We are left with questions about usefulness and necessity, because the Minister has still not clarified the specific cases in which the criminal instruments, which are already very extensive, are inadequate. If this bill becomes a law, a horizon clause according to D66 is the least that is needed. I note that both the Minister and the judge can and must continue to apply the law as long as that law is valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u386	Mr. Chairman. We have discussed a number of subjects quite thoroughly. One particular point remains, namely that we have rigged that whole Christmas tree to legal protection for people who have joined certain terrorist organisations, who participate in a national or international armed conflict and pose a threat to national security. We take the nationality of all these people and equate them with people who have entered foreign military service. Then we rig up that whole Christmas tree and say that the ECHR must be proof, whereas that Christmas tree does not apply to people who have entered foreign military service. That's weird. In all honesty, it is also not right to scream murder and fire now and say that it is all in violation of the rule of law. I have heard some Members do this today when we all had this long ago and we have not seen any initiatives to change it. In fact, this minister has taken the responsibility of making it a possibility and giving a little more legal protection to people who go into foreign military service, but consciously chose not to extend it as far as this point. I still find it very strange that the Minister has chosen to do so among those who support this level of terror. Another point is: I should just like to give the Minister a little support in informing countries when a person's Dutch nationality has been taken away, but someone else has another nationality. I think it is very important that these countries are informed. I think the Minister will hesitate and I think it is important that he has a ruling from the Chamber as backup in order to be able to do so. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister has the power to withdraw the Dutch nationality of persons having dual nationality and presenting a danger to national security;]] [[Whereas it may be of great importance for the country of second nationality to take note of this withdrawal and of the reasons for this decision;]] [[Whereas the exchange of such information contributes to the desired international cooperation in the field of counter-terrorism;]] [[invites the Government to inform the country of the second nationality of such withdrawal and grounds on which it is based after the termination of the nationality, unless there are serious reasons why it opposes it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34356-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u387	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. VNL supports this law. It is good that Dutch people who join terrorist organisations may lose their nationality. However, the proposal needs to be strengthened as far as we are concerned, which is why our amendment should make it possible for terrorists who are in the Netherlands to be deprived of Dutch citizenship. Finally, we have a motion on the problem of statelessness. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas persons of dual and single nationality who join a terrorist organisation must be able to lose the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the current legislation does not provide for this possibility for persons of a single nationality, since the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in these cases leads to statelessness;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to extend the taking away of Dutch citizenship with the result of being unable to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34356-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u388	Mr. Chairman. Despite the Minister's comprehensive answer, the GroenLinks is still not clear in which specific cases criminal law would not be sufficient. Nor has it become clear to us how the Minister intends to correct a possible error in underlying factual circumstances, especially since the person concerned is not present and therefore there is no way of making any progress. In the discussion, the Minister indicated that he would also like to use his powers in children of 11 years of age. That was a really shocking addition to me. I have not received an answer to the situation that arises if all countries do so. How are we going to deal with the growing group of stateless people who are going to roam our planet? So how do we see international solidarity? I believe that we are fighting international terrorism. That is what we must do together. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister of Security and Justice is empowered to withdraw from the Netherlands without prior judicial judgment as to the grounds for such withdrawal;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the cases of withdrawal of Dutch citizenship on an annual basis in the interests of national security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34356-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u389	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for the reply and the detailed justification for the legislative proposal. I have heard the Minister say that the essence of the bill is to prevent return. I think it's a little bit more spacious and maybe a little bit different. The essence of the bill is the protection of national security against imminent danger posed by returned persons. So you do want to prevent the return. But when they are back, we are apparently taking time for the criminal road, where people are free to wait for the outcome of the criminal trial. Then the Minister would seem to find an anklet, a restraining order or a ban on territory sufficient. We must look at this in the light of the mantra that we always hear from this cabinet that this minister is part of: we are doing everything we can to prevent terrorism. My group does not think so, and that is a bridge in the view that the Minister gave about our amendment. That was not recommended, because a balance of interests must take place. That sounds strange, read the Minister's texts in the explanatory statement. I read that passage literally in the first term. The core of the bill is the protection of national security. The connection of a person to a listed terrorist organisation is an indication that the person is willing to pursue his or her ideals by force. That is the only ground and not whether the person concerned is an adult or a minor. It's about someone's danger. The balance of interests would not be necessary as far as my group is concerned. That is why our proposal is automatic. The only ground left is to cross a criminal investigation. That's what the circle is about, because I've just gone into that. Unfortunately, therefore, our conclusion remains that the cabinet is not doing everything it can to counter terrorism. Too bad, but the bill is a step in the right direction. My group will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u390	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. In fact, the Minister did not, or at least not adequately, address the point I made in the first term about international cooperation. Because I literally asked him this. Has the Netherlands entered into consultation with those countries which are known to have Dutch jihadists who also have that nationality? If not, why not? If so, how did they react? What forms of cooperation does the Minister see in the fight against terrorism and for the protection of human lives? I would like a second-term response to that. The bankruptcy of the Dutch rule of law: it would be if we were to give in to populism and to the extent that we think we should choose to leave children to their fate because of rhetoric. I can't get over it. I've never even felt so horrible after an exchange of views in this house. My group is one of the groups in this Chamber which does not think that the inclusion of minors in this law is a good idea in any case, apart from the fact that we will be voting against the law anyway. That is not because we do not realize that children are capable of terrible things through indoctrination, because we all know the images of, for example, child soldiers in African troops, but because we think that you should never give up a child. In our view, children can well be tried through criminal law when they manage to escape the claws of IS and reach Dutch soil again. My group will therefore certainly be preparing an amendment to this point, which I hope will be distributed well before Tuesday and on which it will be possible to vote next Tuesday, at the same time as this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u391	We look forward to the amendment. I call Mr Recourt of the Labour Party as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u392	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister. The Minister asked me to withdraw or amend my amendments. I'm gonna think about it and possibly talk about it in more detail, but now I'm gonna leave them there for a while. I can say all kinds of things about it, but given the time, I'm gonna let that go. I've got another bone in the throat. This concerns those persons who have been brought an action of their own motion, of whom they did not know or could reasonably know, and who then cannot challenge it. I checked the Awb again. There is indeed little room. 4:6 doesn't do it; in this it is a new application, but that doesn't make much sense. 8:6 will also be difficult. What is possible is a request to return to an earlier decision. You don't do that to the judge. You do that to the board. I would ask the Minister whether he would like to think about the following: hopefully he will be able to clarify this in the second term. Someone is not in any way involved in the procedure that he himself deals with and says: I have new facts and circumstances; do you want to think about getting back to a previous decision? I'm just trying to make sure that happens. In my opinion, that gap will then be resolved, otherwise it will remain. There's been a trial that you haven't had any part of, but it's about you. That'll be me at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u393	Four motions have been tabled and a number of questions have been put. I just got the signal that the minister is immediately able to answer. That's very nice. I am therefore happy to give the floor to the Minister for his second answer. I would like to ask Members as a starting point to intervene only in the answers to the questions they themselves have asked. If there really is a very urgent issue, please come forward. But let's try to finish it that way. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u394	Mr. Chairman. I thank the spokesmen for their second term contribution. I appreciate the debate we have had to a great extent. I am well aware that this is a legislative proposal that requires careful consideration and that it is an important and important subject. Elements that have been discussed in this debate are the care with which you take the decision, the basis on which you take that decision, the judicial review, the legal protection, the coherence between this decision and other decisions, such as the declaration of unwanted alienation and the role of the agreements we have made in a European context, Article 6 and Article 8 of the ECHR. These are all important elements that have been very carefully discussed in the Chamber. I regret that I have not been able, or have been able, to convince all the spokesmen of the wisdom of this bill. But I hope that they will perhaps take a different view in the consideration they will make after this. I note that Mrs Gesthuizen has announced another amendment. I will, of course, ensure that I do so if I can give a written response within the time limit set, before the votes. That is what I am doing in the letter in which I also respond to the Bishop's amendment to item No. 18. After all, I have not yet given any advice to the Chamber on this matter. I come to Mrs Tellegen's contribution. First of all, thank you very much for the support of the VVD Group. I understand very well that Mrs Tellegen says she is still looking for further tightenings. I also understand that Mrs Tellegen is asking whether we cannot take another step further in a number of areas, in order to ensure national security even further. I also think that there is a great need for me to go into this, albeit of course we have made a very careful assessment of the interests we have in this legislative proposal. I do not see much room for commenting on Mrs Tellegen's suggestions, however much I might like to do so myself. However, this makes the suggestions made by Mrs Tellegen and the opinion of her group no less important. Let us continue to look together for measures that we can jointly take in good consultation to ensure that national security continues to be guaranteed for the future. This is, of course, also the starting point of the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. Mrs Tellegen asked a follow-up question about statelessness. In the meantime, there is also a motion by Mr Van Klaveren on that point. I fully understand Mrs Van Tellegen's thoughts. She said I could have a conversation anyway. In the meantime, however, as a minister, I am, of course, dealing with a speech in the Chamber that does not allow me to do so. Perhaps Mr Van Klaver's motion could change that. I would like to speak about Mr Segers' contribution. He says he has doubts on two points. First of all, he has doubts as to whether it is really necessary to do this. I know Mr Segers as someone who is always careful. There will be a decision to withdraw the Dutch citizenship only if the judge considers that the balance made by the minister was careful and leads to the conclusion that it is justified to withdraw the Dutch citizenship on the basis of the law. This means that the judge in the appeal, which will always take place, finds that there are sufficient facts and circumstances to allow the balancing of interests to lead to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, in the interest of national security. I would like to ask Mr Segers to take that point into consideration once again. If that balance of interests can't bear the decision, I won't do it myself or the judge won't let me. This means that the doubt should be removed by the simple fact that it will never come to a withdrawal if the facts are not correct, if there is not sufficient reason to establish that someone is actually affiliated to a terrorist organisation on the basis of the legal criteria. I would very much like to pass that on to Mr Segers. The other point of doubt raised by Mr Segers concerns the extent of the judge's consideration. I think that is just the balance that the judge always makes in administrative law, namely: can the conclusion, the decision, be borne by the underlying facts. If it isn't, the judge won't uphold the decision. I do not think the decision will therefore be taken by the Minister. Then I'm gonna get to the point of underage. We have to be careful: we have minors, who can also be 17 or 17,5 years old, and we have children. I think that the chances of a young child becoming the subject of this decision-making are very low, precisely for the reasons which Mrs Gesthuizen has already indicated. Of course we always want to give children a chance. Of course, we have significant balances of interest there, which are also given to us by the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Of course, the right to family life, Article 8 ECHR, also applies. There are therefore many reasons why a balance of interests with regard to children will be looked at very carefully, seriously and in an extra way. This does not mean that we must in the meantime rule out the possibility of involving a 16, 17 or 17,5 minor in this legislation. The guarantee lies in the care we let go of this. If the amendment were to say that minors could never be included in this consideration, I really must refer to the report of Erasmus University and the report of the AIVD, which explicitly refers to the systematic provision of structural training for children and minors to be used in terrorist activities, precisely because they are minors. It is assumed that in the Western world exactly what we are doing with each other tonight is happening, namely to tell each other that you have to deal with children in a different way. We must do two things: we must recognise this danger and at the same time recognise that we will always be incredibly careful about it. That is what we are obliged to do, precisely for the very reason Mrs Gesthuizen has put forward, namely because children bring that with them. I would like to point out that we are talking here about minors who are not in all cases covered by the term 'children'. Mrs Gesthuizen is quite right to say that children in other countries, but also in the ISIS area in Syria and Iraq, are capable of the most horrible crimes. That's right. However, that does not mean, not even for child soldiers, that we always abandon them. Mrs Gesthuizen was right to point that out. Mrs Gesthuizen said that even if the amendment she was considering were to be adopted, she would still vote against the law. That actually means that I have little chance of convincing the SP group in the interests of national security of this bill. The adoption of this amendment is not relevant to the opinion of the SP Group. This gives the amendment a somewhat curious status, because it is therefore irrelevant for the SP Group whether it is adopted. The tightening which it intends to achieve will not lead to a different judgment. However, that does not change the fact that I particularly appreciate the fact that Mrs Gesthuizen has indicated that she has this concern, because I fully understand the good heart that that comes from. I also understand these concerns in the light of the fact that you have to deal with children very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u395	I can imagine that Mrs Gesthuizen would like to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u396	Yes. I am very pleased that my plea has prompted the Minister to express these warm words. Moreover, I was not alone in that plea; several other groups also held it. For the sake of clarity, I would point out that it is certainly not a state-law novel that I have announced that I will table an amendment, which I will, of course, reconsider after the Minister's words, but at the same time I have been so honest in saying that my group will probably not decide to vote in favour of this amendment. Of course, this lawyer knows that like no other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u397	You will probably vote in favour of the amendment, but perhaps not in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u398	Mrs Gesthuizen is absolutely right about that. However, as a minister, I do have an interest in it, and I do like it so much that a legislative proposal that I am making in the context of the action programme against jihadism, which Mr Asscher and myself fully support, has the support of as many parties in the Chamber as possible. If Mrs Gesthuizen considered one point of interest in such a way that her group would vote in favour of the legislative proposal if it changed that point, it would give a very different weight to the amendment than when Mrs Gesthuizen said in advance that it does not matter what happens to the amendment because her group is going to vote against the legislative proposal. That's all I wanted to give you. I have already answered most of Mr Segers' questions. Is it necessary? Yeah, for national security. The guarantee of administrative law is a good thing. I've already talked about underage. In his motion, Mr Segers calls on me to examine how administrative law works and whether there are other possibilities. I think that is a rather tricky point, because the motion seems to be based on the premise that administrative law would not be sufficient to carry out a careful review of a government decision, which is the basis on which we established our administrative law. I'm a little hesitant about that. We opt for a form of legal protection that Van Toorenburg and Mrs Helder on the one hand say: where did you get it from? Mr Segers says for completely different reasons: we want to look at alternatives. This is somewhat contrary to the agreements and the system in the Netherlands, where administrative law provides the legal protection for all decisions taken by the government and affect those people personally. For this reason, I advise against the motion, because in principle one wants to go to another administrative test on government decisions. I can't agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u399	I have indicated that we are looking for new forms, for example on our own initiative. I referred to the Wiv, who also knows a review committee. You can see that new forms of ex ante review are emerging within administrative law. Let's take a look at what we have laid down in the current legislation, evaluate that. You could ask the WODC. We are now very much looking at how we can shape these guarantees in a good way. It's a fairly open motion: investigate it, hold it against the light, look at the pros and cons. It was as non-committal as ever. I have expressed concern, but it is a rather open motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u400	I understand, but I have already indicated in the context of the amendment that in this particular case, because of our constitutional relations, I do not see anything in such an independent committee. It is therefore very difficult for me to say that I am going to investigate it, because I have already said in the context of the amendment that I do not want to do so. It's very difficult for me. I understand Mr Segers' intention very well. I would also very much like to be able to meet him, because I was hoping that this would contribute to his final weighing. However, I must advise against this motion. Mrs. Swinkels says three things. Firstly, it says it is a punitive measure. It is not a punitive measure, because it is not in criminal law. I do not agree with Mrs Swinkels, not only because I find it, but also on the basis of the facts. Secondly, she says that this decision-making should never take place outside the courts. I would like to point out to Mrs Swinkels that the whole debate this evening has been about the fact that, according to some parties, we have, in an exaggerated way, ensured careful judicial review. In fact, there is no decision-making outside the courts. In fact, I have made sure that the judge will always review this decision. I therefore do not understand Mrs Swinkels' second point. Thirdly, Mrs Swinkels says that she has doubts about a fair trial. Just this bill and the knowledge and skill of the Dutch administrative judge ensure that there is always a fair trial, even in a way that in this particular case some parties in the Chamber say: what the hell are you doing as a minister? There are three arguments why Mrs Swinkels has difficulty with this bill, but in fact all three are not sustainable. Mrs Van Toorenburg once again asked about the difference between the military service and this particular point. The premise of the loss of Dutch nationality in foreign military service is that there is automatically another nationality. A person who is employed by a foreign military force, even the Foreign Legion, generally automatically acquires the nationality of the country of the armed forces in which he is employed. If I remember correctly, that happened in World War II. This explains that there is a big difference between the entry into service of a foreign military force of a recognised official country and the entry into service of an organisation as a terrorist organisation. For this reason, these differences have also been incorporated into the law. Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion on item No. 21 request the Government to inform the country of the second nationality of such withdrawal and grounds on which it is based at the end of the period of withdrawal of nationality, unless there are serious reasons why it does not do so. That last point is in line with my observation that there may be circumstances which may require different choices to be made in that consideration. That is why I can leave the motion to the discretion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u401	The Minister also has the opportunity to take over the motion, if he can fully support it in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u402	Yes, but I'll take a look at Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u403	My comment was not intended to prolong this debate. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u404	The motivation was precisely that the Minister should have this support from the Chamber. That is why I think it would even be wise if we just voted on it. Then the Minister will know his support when he will have to make this difficult assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u405	The Minister leaves the verdict to the Chamber. Then we'll keep this motion on voting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u406	Mrs Helder has indicated that she does not think the bill goes far enough, but I am very grateful to her for the support she has expressed. Mrs Gesthuizen has indicated that she is against the bill, no matter what happens to it. Her way of thinking is that we already have criminal law and that's enough. I must point out that criminal law can only be applied when we have someone. That is precisely why Mr Asscher and I are proposing this bill. We see that in all cases we cannot guarantee that we actually have someone. We cannot guarantee that we will always be able to effectively catch anyone who is eligible for criminal prosecution. It may be that, as long as he is Dutch, someone returns legally to the Schengen area or to the Netherlands. That can then be done uncontrolled, because in that situation he simply keeps Dutch nationality. That is precisely why this bill is so important. I therefore urge Mrs Gesthuizen once again to reconsider with her group the question of whether they should not support this proposal. Mrs Gesthuizen asked if there was any consultation with other countries concerned. There is a great deal of consultation with a number of countries, such as Morocco and Turkey. In recent debates, we have frequently indicated how consultations with these countries are taking place, specifically with regard to foreign terrorist fighters. Turkey and Morocco were and together with the Netherlands chairman of the Foreign Terrorist Fighter Working Group. Minister Koenders has informed the Chamber extensively about this. All these aspects are discussed structurally with these countries. The essence of securing countries is, of course, that we consult each other. That is very important. Then I come to the motion on part No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u407	Mrs Gesthuizen has a short question for you first, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u408	I have already asked twice: has there been consultation and, if so, how has this intention of the Netherlands been responded to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u409	To the intention to withdraw nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u410	Yes, and that this can be done on double nationality. It is obvious, of course, that quite a few of the extravagants, of the jihadists, have dual nationality and that this could be, for example, Moroccan or Turkish nationality. How were these countries reacting to this intention of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u411	I can't answer that question. I would like to take a look at whether that question has been raised and, if so, whether it has been answered. We will take that into account in the letter that we will send to the Chamber before the votes. What is certain is that some of these countries, for example Morocco, consider it very important for everyone to retain their nationality. In fact, it is very complicated, and I believe that that is also the case with Turkey in order to renounce that nationality. In some cases, money is even asked for this. I mean Turkey. The fact that there is a dual nationality is therefore a fact for these countries. If one travels from Turkey or Morocco to another country and acquires the nationality of the other country, it is a fact for those countries that there is a double nationality. Actually, I think they just accept that. If it's any different, I'll let the Chamber know. I would like to serve Mrs Gesthuizen on this issue, in the hope that this will contribute to a different opinion of the SP Group on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u412	I think that wish has now come across loud and clear, Minister. We'll see where it leads.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u413	Sometimes the power of persuasion is also in the repetition, especially when it gets a little late.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u414	You never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u415	If it gets a little late, Mrs Gesthuizen might at some point say: you know what, we'll still vote in favour. You never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u416	The votes are usually not that late. At least, I hope not next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u417	There may be some kind of enthusiasm, to which I would like to call Mrs Gesthuizen. Then I come to the motion on part No. 22 by Mr Van Klaveren, who actually took up the point raised by Mrs Tellegen. I can only say, as I have done to Mr Segers, that this motion is contrary to the international conventions signed by the Netherlands and applicable. It is also contrary to the motion Schouw/Segers, which has been adopted by the Chamber before. That's why I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. I shall now come to Mrs Van Tongeren's motion on item No. 23. It calls on the government to inform the Chamber of the cases of withdrawal of Dutch citizenship on an annual basis in the interests of national security. In principle, the government reports in the progress report jihadism action programme on all the measures included in the action programme. This is one of the measures in the action programme. I do not see any reason at this stage to say that there could be no reporting on this particular point. Moreover, I do not think it is excluded that it is more frequent than annual, but in any case I will inform you every year because it is just part of the progress report. For that reason, I shall leave the motion to the House's judgment. However, I can also accept her, Mr President. You want me to do that? I'll take the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u418	Does anyone object to taking over this motion? There is no objection to that. Mrs Van Tongeren is no longer present in the debate, but I assume she has no objection to the Minister taking over her own motion. That makes the motion in part no. 23 taken over. This means that it is still on the voting list, but that it will not be put to the vote anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u419	Mrs Van Toorenburg asked a question about Article 197 of the Staff Code. I note that there is no pre-trial detention there, because Article 197 of the WvS does not have enough penalty. However, the withdrawal of nationality can only take place if someone has joined a terrorist organisation and has been established by the judge. This also complies with the definition of the offence of membership of a terrorist organisation. The four-year period does not apply to this, as this is excluded, and therefore provisional detention is possible. I have one more point. I am still thinking about the motion by Mr Segers and Mr Recourt. Would it help Mr Segers to think again about the idea he is putting on the table, namely whether there are gaps in legal protection arising from administrative law? You want me to take another look at that? I am referring specifically to the legislative proposals that we submitted to the Chamber in the context of the action programme. It is not about some kind of state-wide reorientation, but about these far-reaching legislative proposals. Would it perhaps help Mr Segers if I promised to do so? If that motion were to be adopted, I will inform the House about it after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u420	I had given the Minister even more time, until early 2017. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u421	Then I will explain the motion in such a way that, in the context of the legislative proposals relating to the jihadism action programme, I am prepared to review what we have agreed in it and to see whether there are other systems conceivable and what the advantages and disadvantages are. I will send that to the Chamber in early 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u422	Just for the Acts. The motion in part No. 20 was dissuaded, but is the Minister now prepared to take her over? Or does he leave her to the judgment of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u423	Let me take a look at Mr Segers. I'll give her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u424	Judgment Room is also fine. The motion in part No. So 20 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u425	I think I have already said it, but just to be sure, I have promised that I will also pay attention to Amendment No 2. 18 in the letter I will send before the vote. It will provide Mr Bishop with information on the apparent contradiction or the double counting of national security in the two legislations. I think the answer is that we are talking about two levels. One level is a condition that is linked to the question of when a terrorist organisation is a terrorist organisation and the other level is linked to the question of when, on the basis of national security, a person can be deprived of his nationality. I'll put that on paper just in case. I would like to thank the spokesmen and you, President, very warmly for the fact that, despite this late hour, we have been able to discuss this bill in a very careful and constructive manner. I am very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u426	I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. In the letter he promised before the votes, he will go into the SP amendment, if there is one. He also said that there might be something to add in that letter about double nationality. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u427	If possible, we will vote on the amendments and the motions on Tuesday.
