ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	A warm welcome to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. This debate has been requested by Mr Krol and that is why he is the first speaker. There are seven speakers from the Chamber and they all have three minutes' speaking time. I call Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. This Minister and his colleagues repeat over and over again that a balanced distribution of purchasing power is an important prerequisite of government policy. I always hear references to averages, statistics and medians that would be quite reasonable for the elderly. However, we should not stare blindly at favourable averages, statistics and medians that tell only a partial reality. The concrete reality is that it is unfavourable in many people's pockets, especially of the elderly. 50PLUS is outraged at the way in which this cabinet implements this so-called "balanced distribution of income." The picture of the January pay slips is favourable for workers. Fine. However, for the vast majority of the people who have worked, the pensioners, this picture is unfavourable. Although the AOW net increase is slightly higher, many pensions are falling again. That's indigestible. For early retirees, that's even worse. The gap between workers and non-workers has increased further since January this year. I will give two examples based on recent Nibud figures. You're single and working, and you earn $20,000 gross. You'll get 5.2%. In the same situation, an AOW gets 1%. That's a 4.2% difference against the retired. Let me give you another example: you are single, working and you earn €30,000 gross. You'll get 3.7%. In the same situation, a single AOWer declines 3.2%. That is a difference of almost 7% to the disadvantage of the pensioner, and that in one calendar year. And I can go on like this, but I only have three minutes to speak. With the Tax Plan, the cabinet promised relief for everyone, but for many elderly people there is absolutely no question of relief. The Minister himself admits that over a third of pensioners remain at zero or decline in purchasing power. Even those who make some progress will have to deal with higher rents, rising local charges, higher own risk, rising healthcare costs and so on. That goes for this year. And because there is virtually no structural regulation, they are going to decline even further next year. They read today in the newspapers that their pensions may also be reduced. That's indigestible. How can a social democratic minister take care of that? Older people are entitled, according to 50PLUS, to income trends comparable to those of workers. Let's just split it up a little more fairly. Does the cabinet intend to do something for this group of pensioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr Krol referred to the discussion that had taken place with the Tax Plan, the General Financial Reviews, the General Political Reviews and the Social Affairs budget in the past year. There is one thing he is not quoting, although I expected it to be, namely a CBS study last week on the risk of long-term poverty in the elderly. I actually expected him to bring that up here, because it's topical, but it's about poverty among senior citizens. The interesting thing about that research is that it's mainly focused on the phase before people are retired. The CBS concludes that poverty is relatively low after 65 years; the risk of poverty is highest between 55 and 65 years. What is particularly interesting is that the reason is that people do not intervene in the labour market. Do we not also have a labour market problem when it comes to long-term poverty among senior citizens? Shouldn't we be talking about that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u4	I fully agree with Mr Heerma. That is exactly why I have been screaming the lungs out of my body in the Chamber for two years to create an elderly ambassador who will create more jobs. Fortunately, after a year and a half of shouting, I received support for this from the Labour Party and also from the CDA. The CDA was earlier, but there is now a joint motion from Mrs Vermeij and me. I fully agree with Mr Heerma. We have to do everything we can. We need to look less at averages and more at people who get into trouble. Then we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u5	So when it comes to the risk of poverty among senior citizens, is the labour market a central issue that needs to be addressed in order to reduce the risk of poverty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u6	Whatever needs to be looked at. I fully agree with Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u7	Every poor one is too much, whether it's a child or someone who's retired. However, I have some difficulty with Mr Krol's picture, which is that the elderly have always been screwed up in recent years. I have a question for him, which does not affect individual cases where the weather is indeed heavy due to the bad news from pension funds. Can Mr Krol tell me how poverty among the elderly has developed over the past 15 years? Did he say it went up, down or down?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'm glad D66 gives me the opportunity to explain that. According to the figures for the period 2004 to 2013, they have improved 3%. If you push those numbers a little further up to the past year, you'll see that they've gotten worse. In the meantime, that has been admitted in the First Chamber. So yes, at first they improved on it. Then we come back with averages, which we shouldn't do now. It is true that you have to look at individual cases, as Mr Van Weyenberg says, but even the average decline of older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u9	I expected Mr Krol to use the next figure, namely that poverty among the elderly has fallen from 11% to 3% over the last 15 years. I would welcome the balance in this debate if Mr Krol acknowledged that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u10	I keep repeating that we need to get rid of averages and medians and look at individual cases where things are really bad. That is also what we need to do about D66, because it is also something that your constituents are doing about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u11	It's always hard to argue that you have to look at individual cases. That is true and there will probably be a lot of different individual cases in our inbox. I have a question for Mr Krol. This debate was requested for the summer, in June 2015. At that time, purchasing power threatened to vary considerably for older people and for workers. Then came the Tax Plan and there were additional measures, with or without the help of other parties. What's the purchasing power picture for the elderly after that? Has it improved, remained stable or deteriorated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u12	How do you want the answer, Mrs Vermeij? Do you want the answer as it really is, namely that older people are still declining in proportion and that the gap between workers and non-working people is widening? What is going to happen next year, now that a lot of measures have not been taken in a structural manner and pension funds have already announced that they may need to shorten our measures? Or do you want the answer that it may have improved slightly in relation to the previous plans? The latter is true, but not nearly enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you. Those are indeed two answers. Moreover, in reply to Mr Heerma's questions, you have said that there is also a differentiated picture for workers and non-working people when it comes to some older people in the labour market. The comparison between workers and non-workers can thus also be negative for the workers. That's what we're worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u14	The problem with purchasing power plates is that you can never cut them. The personal situation matters. When people get divorced or lose their jobs, it has a much greater influence. This debate has been requested for Princess' Day. We did not agree to that debate at the time, because we know that the cabinet is repairing this kind of thing. That's what happened. AOW's who would have deteriorated without a policy are now improving. Nevertheless, Mr Krol voted against the Tax Plan. If it had been up to him, it wouldn't have been a plus for AOW'ers, it would have been a minus. He just played a dangerous game with the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u15	That is what Mr Mulder said. Fortunately, he does not ask a question, so I do not even have to answer it, but: yes, I voted against it out of total conviction, because I do not think that a little satisfaction for that group, which is now getting the punches, is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make three points in this debate on 30 Members requested by Mr Krol. The first is that older people have definitely had to deal with the consequences of the crisis. They've had quite a lot to do. The AOW goes up twice a year. It's being indexed. Retirement often doesn't. That's even cut a little bit, and in some cases more than a little bit. There are concerns, about health care, about renting and about existence. There are also specific problems for older people who, for example, have a shop or a property and could not cash that, or a small pension................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ For many elderly people, the AOW is incredibly important. It is good to note that the number of people with benefits has increased by 700,000 over the last ten years. That's a 30% increase. We have managed to achieve this, also with an index of twice a year. My second observation is that the purchasing power of older people is improved by a number of measures taken by this cabinet. We can discuss whether it is enough. The cabinet has taken measures to avoid the threat of loss of purchasing power by not indexing supplementary pensions as much as possible. The first tax disc may have gone up slightly, but on the other hand, the elderly discount has been substantially increased. We can see that in the numbers. For the summer, the single AOW worker retired at €10,000 per year, falling by 1.3%. That was the reason for Mr Krol to request his debate. After the tax plan, that AOW guy didn't go backwards. My question is actually the same as Mr Krol's, namely: is this debate really about purchasing power? I don't think so. When I talk to people, mail or call, it's actually more about respect, about the group, about how they feel treated, about certainties around systems that are under pressure, like this morning, fully, pensions. There are also concerns about whether the AOW remains sustainable. And there are concerns about the care. They are systems that they feel responsible for, because they have partly built them up. Do we still have enough eye for the difficult position of people? In many conversations I have, people say: anger is not about myself, but about the other. There is also that involvement. Or they say it's not about me, it's about my children or grandchildren, about how they find work. So this is cross-border. I note, thinking about this debate, that we are having discussions on many fronts: with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs on pensions, with Secretary of State Van Rijn on care and with the Minister for Social Affairs on purchasing power. I've been diving in history for a while. The first old people's note was published in 1970. That's what it was called back then. Fortunately, we don't use that word anymore. The second appeared in 1975. Actually, I couldn't find the most recent one. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs, the Minister for Purchasing Power, is therefore: is it not time to bring together all these expertises and put together an overarching vision, a note or what more they, about getting older and getting older? This seems to me to be a task that we can achieve this year, bringing together different elements: both the sustainability of the AOW, the pension system, care and the labour market at a later age. I don't care who does that, who in the government takes responsibility for it. It would be nice if it were the Deputy Prime Minister, but we have a tradition of doing so. We've lost that tradition a little bit. This will prevent us from having a debate on every subject which has an transcendent theme, namely: how do we deal with this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u17	Those are nice closing words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u18	The debate with Mr Krol, which Mrs Vermeij also participated in, was about the position of senior citizens in the labour market. It is now involved in a vision paper. There are all kinds of issues being addressed in Mrs Vermeij's idea, including many types of older people, but that problem in the labour market is a concrete one, and that is what is happening now. The First Chamber also passed a motion on that. Surely we should not involve this in a vision piece on all kinds of elderly people? It's just something that needs to be dealt with, right? That problem in the labour market must be solved, must it not? We don't need a broad vision piece for that, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u19	No, I agree with Mr Heerma. We must therefore continue with the actions that we ourselves have initiated. But in purchasing power debates, pension debates, debates about certainty about care and debates about how you get older, all kinds of different aspects run through each other. So they take place in debates at different levels in this house. Since 1970 we have been able to bring together a number of these competences from the government and draw up a plan for this. I think that position has changed and that it makes sense to give that mandate to the government again. So my question is: does she feel that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u20	Where there's some discomfort to me, there's where it's all planning and studies. We have to study from the Labour Party on the pension system, but how much longer does that go on? There is a study in the polder about everything and everything, but isn't it a matter that this cabinet is going to do something for the rest of the year and a half?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u21	Sure. We have also agreed on this. They are about the pension system and the labour market. But I can also see that the debate is always getting to the bottom of the subject. Then it's purchasing power again, then interest and then care again. I think it would be useful to look at where we stand, how the group develops in all diversity and whether there is a coincidence where we can come up with solutions. That's cross-border. We can start discussion here every day, then again with the Secretary of State, then with the Minister, then again with Health, but it seems good to bring that together. That doesn't change the fact that we just have to do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u22	Still, I feel like we're going to talk and study a lot in this kind of way, but we're not going to do anything. I mean, it's really different to studying to govern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mrs Vermeij mentioned a number of years, in which people looked at everything related to the elderly. She even mentioned 1970. But perhaps she also remembers 2004, when the Chamber appointed a task force for older people, in which Mrs Kant plays an important role. I do not think that we need to study further if it is to carry out the same thing and the measures proposed in it. A lot of what's in it hasn't been done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u24	I think it makes sense to look at all these plans, including those from the past. Because you see a lot of things in there that are very relevant for today. We are talking about 1970 and 1975, and perhaps 2004 as well. We don't do that enough. Every day we have a debate about the here and now. My simple request to the government is: step beyond your own borders, look at what lies between the CBS and the SCP and see what you could do when it comes to this group, which in many cases does not feel old, but is getting older. And that's a big good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, purchasing power development for older people is a hot issue. Even though it is a while ago that Mr Krol asked for this debate, it is still topical. That's what we see when we're only digging through the papers this week. When we look at the recent calculations of the Nibud, we see that there is little reason to rejoice about purchasing power developments. Pensioners do not, or hardly, improve on it. This is particularly true for those with supplementary pensions. Many pensions are not indexed in the coming years and have not been indexed for a very long time. That's what pensioners feel right in their wallets. They can return €35 per month according to the Nibud. Research firm Aon Hewitt has also calculated that the purchasing power of pensioners will fall by an average of 5% over the next ten years. For some funds, this is even more than 10%. This is, of course, due to the amended rules, the financial review framework. I think it was emeritus professor Bernard of Prague who calculated that in the past eight to nine years about 17% of purchasing power has fallen among pensioners. That's incredibly much. As Mr Krol said, there are, of course, a lot of individual cases, but the main line remains that there will be a fall in purchasing power as soon as you get older. For next year discounts are threatening, since the coverage rate of ABP has fallen below the critical limit. If the situation on the financial markets does not improve, this means that from next year on shortening becomes inevitable, De Telegraaf reported this week. This morning we read again that this applies to all major pension funds, including Care and Welfare, PME and PMT. There's a new pension disaster coming up. In addition, the Dutch pension funds are not able to withstand a deterioration in the stock exchange environment. This is reflected in the first European stress test presented by the European regulator EIOPA on Tuesday. As a result, the impact of the first European stress test of all countries is by far the greatest in the Netherlands, where the calculated deficits even reach about half of gross domestic product. How is this possible and in what way does the cabinet care? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. In addition, the European Central Bank continues to buy debt papers to save trade-South. This again has a detrimental effect on pensions here in the North. While in the South, credit is barely getting under way, inflation is not getting under way and the euro is hanging around our necks like a millstone, pensioners are the victims. As far as we are concerned, it is about clear choices: we must, of course, get rid of the euro, but we must also get rid of our mass immigration. We have an open house in the Netherlands. A precious open house: 7.2 billion a year, Nyfer calculated a long time ago. Mass immigration cannot continue; not at all because it also involves a population replacement. Mass immigration does not help the Dutch welfare state, but it destroys the Dutch welfare state. Most of the new fellow citizens are unemployed, even though 10 are trained to replace 70,000 redundant care workers. On this very special story, my colleague, Mr Agema, will also request a debate today, and I would like to ask for some support. The current residents, including the 3 million pensioners and AOWs, pay the bill for this. After all, how can you possibly let 100,000 people in this year who are all going to reunite family after that? At the same time, we cut older people to care. Our elderly people are not only reduced in purchasing power by this cabinet, but also their lust for life and well-being. The cabinet must be ashamed of us for that. I would also like a response from the Minister on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr. Chairman. In the crisis, 80% of older people have fallen purchasing power and two thirds of them have also reduced their capacity. Older people are impoverished. Does the Minister recognize that? For years pensions have not been indexed and the purchasing power of older people with supplementary pensions has fallen. Carers in need of care have been hit extra hard. This is all stated in the report of Radboud University, which is the reason for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u27	The NRC has one of these fact-checkers, a fact-checker. Mr Ulenbelt says that older people are rapidly impoverished. I have here a report from the Central Bureau of Statistics, which says literally: 'The 65-plussers have the least chance of getting below the poverty line'. The facts, or at least what Mr Ulenbelt presents as facts, are simply not correct. So he can take it back? After all, there's something completely different here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u28	Now Mr Mulder is putting on a very big pair of pants again. Embarrassing is something other than getting below the poverty line. If the VVD is happy that people do not come below the poverty line and if the VVD is there, it has sunk very deeply. If you have a small supplementary pension and if your purchasing power has decreased by 10% in recent years, you are impoverishing. Yeah, then you're impoverishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u29	A debate like this is quite sensitive, because there are people who are going backwards and there are people whose pensions haven't been indexed for years, but of whatever color or party you are, we also have an expensive duty not to put up images that people slowly believe in. They actually think it's my neighbor, because I'm not, but I'm worried. What Mr Ulenbelt says about 10% and impoverishment is not true, although you can also mention a number of concerns. Mr Ulenbelt will therefore have to support this, because we in this country will not be able to produce images that are not correct, but which then cause a lot of unrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u30	I'm not the one causing trouble. Mrs Vermeij is from the party of the State Secretary responsible for pensions and who said to people whose pensions were cut, "Take a vegetable garden." Then who's working on footage? Those are the Social Democrats in this country, because as a solution to the financial problems they say: 'Take a vegetable garden'. What kind of image is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u31	I would like an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u32	That answer is that your own party comes up with footage of a vegetable garden. If you, as a retired person, have an income that is happily above the poverty line and if your purchasing power drops by 10% in the time of crisis, you are impoverished. Yeah, well, then you're impoverished. That's not the call of an image. Mr Krol requested this debate following a detailed report by the Radboud University commissioned by the ANBO. In it, the impoverishment of the elderly has been completely investigated. This shows a decline in income. That's what I call impoverishment. That is not enrichment; Mrs Vermeij will not be able to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u33	Again my question: where is that 10% and where does it come from? How do you make it happen? What group is that? Every year we get figures from the CBS, the CPB and the cabinet. It says that purchasing power remains the same or is moving forward. Over the last 10 to 15 years, purchasing power has increased. Yes, there is a problem with pensions, and we are discussing this and also the interest sensitivity of the system. Together, we share the importance of a good collective and solidarity pension system, but do not create images that cause unrest among people and are not based on facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u34	I have a scientific education and I have promised all kinds of things there. I will now quote a scientific report from Radboud University about the period 2009-2013. It says about the purchasing power of older people: '-6%'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u35	I see there's a point in asking. Of course there are problems. At first, however, it was -10% and after three times it is already -6%. I'm assuming if I keep asking, it's gonna go down even further. I call on Mr Ulenbelt to use the right figures in this sensitive debate rather than to add up to things because it is rhetorically convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u36	In the period 2006-2013 it was -6%. Then you get 2014 and then you get 2015. It didn't go any better back then either. You'll get to the -10%, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u37	I look forward very much to the nice little graph that Mr Ulenbelt will be distributing in a moment where these numbers are in it. As far as I am concerned, it is pure terror, a serious parliamentarians unworthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u38	That's a big deal. But reality speaks to us daily in letters, e-mails and phone calls. This really shows the image that in many elderly people the water is up to the lips. More and more elderly people turn down the heat. They take a budget policy, with a high own risk, to keep the monthly care premium low. Or, as the report says, they eat less to get out. In the meantime, there are elderly people who, in order to keep their incomes up, are going to carry around the mail. I know a 75-year-old guy who runs the mail. He doesn't do that for fun, but to compensate for his falling pension. This country is slipping in that respect. And then this minister has a secretary of state who hangs up the image that the solution must be found in a vegetable garden. My question to the Minister is very specific: what is the Minister going to do to ensure that older people are not further impoverished? He is a member of the party of Drees and Suurhoff, who offered old people hope, perspective and future. But what do Asscher and Klijnsma offer in this area? I like to hear it, Minister. Go ahead. Today there have been reports that large pension funds are likely to have to cut pensions. They have more money in cash than ever. That's not a myth of Ulenbelt. That's what the Dutch Bank says. They make returns that don't lie about it, but are forced to count poor. How is the Minister going to ensure that pensions can be indexed again normally and that the disaster announced by large funds, perhaps this year or next year discounts, is not realised? Will the Minister go into crisis management with the pension funds? Does he intend to take over the leadership of the Secretary of State in this area? The parties may be angry and think that things are going well with the elderly, but the elderly are terrified by the reports in the newspaper this morning. And is there a need for these measures? No, there's no need. So, Secretary of State, would you like to go into crisis management with the funds to avoid that disaster?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u39	I am a little confused, because now the Secretary of State has to do something, but 30 seconds before that Mr Ulenbelt said that she should be relieved of her role and that the Minister should take over. I've lost a moment's notice of where Mr Ulenbelt is heading. He says the Secretary of State can't handle it, the Minister has to take over? Or will the Secretary of State still have a chance from Mr Ulenbelt? I'm confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u40	Then I may have slipped my mind. That could have happened. My goal is very clear: Minister, relieve the Secretary of State of her duties in the area of pensions and take charge of the matter yourself. I say, Minister, do not lead us to the vegetable garden using the Secretary of State, but solve the pension problem. Let the Minister do that. It's starting to be chefsache.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u41	This is, in fact, a motion of censure, isn't it? Mr Ulenbelt and the SP have a tradition of taking this instrument seriously. I do not always agree with them, but they take seriously the toughest instrument we have as parliamentarians. After these words by Mr Ulenbelt, I call on him to take action. If he does not table a motion of censure in the second term, then his words are worth nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u42	Now Mr Van Weyenberg is becoming a bit of a rioter. What he blames me for, he's doing it himself now. I ask the Minister to take charge of pensions. Last week we had a debate with the Secretary of State. Then the Labour Party pointed to the crisis in pensions. The Secretary of State has been on this story for three years now, but instead of seeing progress, we read in the newspaper this morning that there will be discounts again. This is done under the responsibility of the Secretary of State. My question to the Minister is therefore: take the lead and make sure that this ship arrives in good port.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u43	But I'm not asking a crazy question, am I? If Mr Ulenbelt asks for the Secretary of State to be relieved of her duties with regard to pensions, which is her largest portfolio, then that is simply a motion of censure. I'm not rioting. Mr Ulenbelt is using very big words. He will be free to do so, but then he will also have to do so, otherwise I will not be able to place it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr Van Weyenberg obviously does not agree with me. He thinks pensions are in good hands with this Secretary of State. I have also heard him call her to urgency regularly and hear her say that things have to be different and better. For the time being, these pensions must be saved. This seems to me to be primarily the responsibility of the Minister of Purchasing Power in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u45	Last week we held a four-hour general consultation on the pension system with the Secretary of State. I was, indeed, extremely critical of the interest sensitivity of the system at the time, which worries me. You could read that later. We're reading in the paper this morning what that might lead to. I have not heard Mr Ulenbelt during those four hours about the transfer of duties, regardless of the legal consequences. I really wonder what happened in those seven days, which makes him want to. Why is he asking this in a debate with the Minister? I just don't think that's so neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u46	I shall repeat it again: quite a few things have happened this week. We were told that the new financial review framework would be reasonable. However, we are less than a week ahead and the largest funds come below the critical coverage rate, which means shortening. It was always intended that this would not happen. Now it's on the horizon. That's why I'm a little worried. If you're worried, you shouldn't take the most drastic measures right away. The Minister's going to try instead of the Secretary of State seems to me to be worth a try.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u47	We had those concerns last week. I understand those concerns haven't been with the SP for a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u48	Now Mrs. Vermeij is messing around. I like that, but ever since I was in Parliament, I've been concerned about pensions and calculation rates. I have always expressed it, even earlier than Mrs Vermeij did. Anyway, I can have a little bit of Mrs. Vermeij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr. Chairman. The subject of this debate, which was requested by Mr Krol before the summer, has been discussed extensively in the budget, in the General Political Reviews, in the General Financial Reviews, in the Tax Plan, in the re-opening of the Tax Plan and in the Social Affairs budget at the beginning of December. In my view, the subject of this 30-member debate between the moment of application and the actual conduct of the debate has been the most important of all the subjects that have been requested. In the meantime, a lot has also changed. Mr Krol has just said in an interruption that he has nevertheless voted against the Tax Plan. However, the necessary changes have been made between the announcement of the 5 billion package and the tax plan actually adopted, particularly as regards the position of older people. Within the Tax Plan, the cabinet initially did so in the budget itself. Afterwards, a number of changes were made to the Tax Plan in a number of steps. This debate also discusses all kinds of other subjects than the original subject; purchasing power quickly turned into poverty. I'm particularly interested in actuality. I look forward to the Minister's response to the CBS report. I quoted it and Mr Mulder of the VVD did the same. The report is interesting in relation to this subject for two reasons. Firstly, the CBS makes it clear that the risk of poverty for people over 65 is relatively low. Rather, figures on poverty, including the Nibud, showed that the risk of child poverty is much greater than for 65-plussers. A second striking finding is the likelihood of long-term poverty for people aged between 55 and 65 and the relationship that is explicitly established with the fact that this is caused by their absence from the labour market. When we talk about poverty among senior citizens, we are talking about a labour market problem again. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to this study, the direct link that is being made with the labour market and the fact that the risk of long-term poverty among senior citizens is so great because they do not intervene in the labour market. What remit does the Minister see for himself in this context in the coming year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u50	Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested in June 2015 when it seemed that the purchasing power of older people would be significantly reduced in 2016. Mr Heerma said it: a lot has happened since then. On Prinsjesdag, a budget with a purchasing power package has been tabled, which means that older people are not going to go backwards and even a small plus is shown in the purchasing power figures. During the debate on the Tax Plan, we discussed this in detail and, for the year after that, an additional EUR 200 million was allocated to the purchasing power of older people. I hear a lot of concerns about the purchasing power of the elderly. I understand that, especially when you consider that the situation of pension funds is far from rosy. However, I think it is important that we keep facts and fiction apart in this debate. I'll mention a few of those facts. In no other country is poverty among older people as low as in the Netherlands. In this country, nearly 12% of children live in poor families. In adults, that is 8% and among 65-plussers 3%. Yes, that's 3% too much, but this puts some of the images that have been sketched today in perspective. Luckily, poverty among the elderly has fallen from 11% in 15 years to the 3% I just mentioned. This success is indeed due to the fact that we have always been able to adapt the AOW to inflation and that more and more elderly people have built up a supplementary pension. For example, a person with a social security allowance is making progress when he reaches the age of AOW. Since 2002, purchasing power has also been maintained for older people, especially through government income policies. It is, of course, true that every poor older person is too many and pension funds have not been able to deliver on their promises from the past. However, we must also realise that these reductions or the non-indexation also affect the future pensions of young people and current workers. This effect is not reflected in the purchasing power picture. How big is that effect numerically? If we now look at the picture of poverty among older people, also in comparison with other groups, the question is how the Minister sees it. I invite him to reflect on that. I ask him, and also the Secretary of State, on behalf of the cabinet, to give more force to the facts. If you leave things undefeated for too long, people will think they're true. Mrs Vermeij has rightly drawn attention to this earlier in an interrupting debate. I am really shocked by the statistics of the Central Statistical Office to which Mr Heerma referred. This shows that the risk of long-term poverty falls significantly when you retire. It is precisely this group between 55 and 65 that is vulnerable and that is linked to the poor labour market position. How far is the Minister with the action plan to tackle unemployment among older people? I believe that this is something that we have a great deal of work to do in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mr Van Weyenberg asked me a number of questions by interrupting my idea of looking beyond the borders. During this debate I get emails from people. One says it's not about my retirement, it's about my rent. Another says it's not about my retirement, it's about my care. A third says it's about my retirement. Mr Van Weyenberg asked the Minister to look again at the debate on poverty and ageing. Does he not agree with me that the question he is asking is somewhat in line with the question I have just asked in my first term? Look beyond the borders, because it is a complex issue. It's not just about what you get with your AOW and with your pension, whether indexed or not, but there are a number of other issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u52	Sure. Many of these issues also find their way into the purchasing power picture. There is a great deal to be said about this, but my appeal to the Minister is to separate facts and fiction. I ask him to be a bit of a mythbuster once in a while. What Mrs Vermeij says is, of course, true. There's a connection. That is one of the reasons why my group has long wanted a much stronger link between pensions and the housing market. I hope to find Mrs Vermeij by my side. My concern about her plan was to study again, not rule again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr. Chairman. There has been a lot of discussion over the last few months about purchasing power for older people. A number of debates have been held on this subject. In the meantime, some things have happened. We've got a tax plan coming up, and we've got repairs done. In fact, a number of parties have voted against it. I would like to concentrate on the report of the Central Bureau of Statistics, which literally states that the group of 65+ has the least chance of poverty. It has already been said that every person in poverty is one too many. However, this report continues. It says literally: people between 55 and 65 years of age are at greatest risk of poverty. This is because of unemployment and incapacity for work. This shows once again how important it is that the 55PlusWorks Action Plan is now in place. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. I am very curious to know what measures the Minister will take to achieve this. This also has to do with the debate on collective agreements and the senior days contained in them. We were supposed to have that debate today, but we postponed it. Mr Krol spoke of an elderly ambassador. That's a fine measure. We were against it, because we were not sure that it would be enough to help him, but now that he is here, we support him. But whether this is the measure that solves everything, my group fears it will not. My group believes that other measures are needed, which do not make you popular with one, two, three, such as those senior days in collective agreements. Older people aged 60 in construction had more than 60 vacation days. That number is reduced in collective agreements, but it takes them 17 years. I'm afraid if you want to tackle the unemployment among the elderly, you're unfortunately not there with that senior ambassador. We look forward to the plans of the cabinet and who also looks forward to the plans of 50PLUS at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u54	We would be debating the future of collective agreements at this time. Mr Mulder is so eager that he cannot resist having collective bargaining here. He wants to get rid of senior days. Why doesn't he leave that to the parties? If he says here that he wants to get rid of those senior days, will we do the negotiations here? Then we will abolish youth wages. If that's what he's up for, I'll go with the senior days. Does he think that this is the right place to conduct collective bargaining?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u55	There is a problem with older people's unemployment. This is also apparent from the investigation of the Central Bureau of Statistics. Once older people are unemployed, they get a job less quickly. The report literally states that they run the greatest risk of poverty. We need to do something about that. The cabinet is doing something about it and we in the Chamber are doing something about it, for example with the premium discounts. It is primarily up to the social partners, trade unions and employers' organisations to do something about it. Calculations by the Central Planning Bureau show that the senior days and, as they are called so chic, age-dependent arrangements mean that older people, once they are unemployed, get to work less quickly. The social partners are working on it, but the pace, for example in the construction-cao, is 17 years. That is a part of the solution to the problem we are discussing here, namely poverty among the elderly. I did not mean to repeat or begin the collective bargaining debate, but to say something about it, because there is a relationship with the subject of poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u56	Fortunately, Mr Mulder is not a negotiator. The first lesson for a negotiator is that you at least say something about the proposal that the opposing party makes. Mr Mulder talks about senior days, I start with the abolition of youth pay, but he doesn't say anything about it. So he's like: catching the elderly, but doing nothing for the young. That's not style! At least say something about what you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mr President, I am looking at you, because there will be another section of the cabinet on the subject of youth wages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u58	Then we're not gonna talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u59	When I bring it up, I also fear that the President will call me back, and I do not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u60	Well... I thought I'd sit in front of this a little bit, and I'd get this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u61	I'd like to say something about it if I don't get stopped after all. Youth unemployment is an important issue. We've got it under control a little bit. It seems nice to increase the youth wage, but, as the Central Planning Bureau said recently, you run the risk of increasing youth unemployment. The question is, is that what you want? It's not good for young people to start their careers unemployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u62	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u63	I hear the chairman sighing and I also look at non-verbal communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u64	I'll hold back, I won't bring up the minimum youth wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u66	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman, I'm in a generous mood. I would, however, like to respond to Mr Mulder's plea, in which he rightly quotes the CBS study. It won't be surprising that I think so, because I've talked about it myself. Mr Mulder outlined the position of older people in the labour market. That labour market is actually one of the main reasons why some elderly people, over 55, end up in long-term poverty. Mr Mulder said that more needs to be done to improve the position of older people in the labour market, and also placed some of the responsibility on the social partners. That's how I understand his story. If I follow Mr Mulder's speech well, it is very important that the ESC, which is looking at it now, should take a real step towards the position of older people in the labour market before the summer, and that responsibility should also be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u67	I'm curious. During the budget debate we had a debate on it. Older people's unemployment is a major problem. I said that this is partly in the collective agreements. The Minister first wanted to enter into consultation with the social partners. We'll wait and see. However, I also said in that debate that if you fail to do so, you should look closely at the collective agreements and make them generally binding. That brings me to the debate that was planned earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u68	No, we're not gonna talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u69	During the Social Affairs budget debate, we discussed in detail the Economic and Social Committee opinion which is currently under preparation, also on the basis of proposals put forward by the CDA Group. However, there is an earlier source, namely the Ester motion of the First Chamber on the position of older people in the labour market. The VVD in the First Chamber voted against it. However, it is good to note in this debate that the VVD also believes that the social partners should take up this responsibility with this ESC opinion, because the problem affects the risk of poverty for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u70	That debate will take place at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u71	So much for the Chamber's term. The Minister has asked for seven minutes. That's measured very specifically, so we'll actually turn on the chronometer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, the economic crisis has had enormous effects for many Dutch people in their purchasing power, but also in their employment and the value of their homes. The same applies to the elderly. They have often felt it directly because the pension funds were in a worse position and could not index, but older people, like all the other Dutch, have made a contribution to getting the money in order and keeping it in order. It is good to realize that the uncertainty that this causes for older people is often greater than for workers, because they have few opportunities to compensate for a decline in income by going to work a little more or by doing something else. That is a strong effect that you cannot express in figures, statistics and purchasing power images but that you hear back. That's why news about future discounts also strikes as a bomb, because people just don't know how to take it. If we are aware of that, it is good to keep looking at the facts. Every parliamentarians is free to make their choices in a debate like this, but if Mr Krol, who has requested this debate, says 'let's not talk about averages today', that is like saying 'let's not talk about facts today'. We can talk about individuals, but we also need to talk about averages. Why? Because this is something that we are trying to take here to ensure that as many people as possible benefit from it. I'll mention the basic facts. Before the summer, when this debate was requested, the prediction was a median purchasing power decline for older people of 1.7%. It was right to call attention to it from the left and from the right. It has rightly been called for by older people's associations. The social partners rightly drew attention to this. The cabinet said that in August we will always look at the distribution of purchasing power. The most recent estimate of purchasing power in December 2015 is +0,7%. This means that we have gone from -1.7% to +0.7% since we asked for this debate. That's a 2.4% difference. Then it is perhaps politically understandable that Mr Krol says 'let's not talk about averages today', but it would have been fair if he had also appointed them. It did not happen on its own; it happened because a choice was made. That choice, which I also support, is to pay out precisely to compensate the group of older people and to ensure that older people receive more care payments and more rent payments and more opportunities to deal with their disposable income. That's not just an average, that's concrete. It is not always about large amounts, but it is about real amounts. Last Monday or Friday, it just depends on how the bank did it. The AOW was transferred again. It is again higher than last year, namely now €1.075 for a single AOW'er. I'll never say that's a fat pot. On the contrary. Fortunately, many older people also have supplementary pensions. We also know that it has been difficult, but this also applies: first the facts. For this year, the overview of the coverage was that in all likelihood there was no need to shorten. However, if it deteriorates further, it is likely to happen for next year. Of course, no one wants that. That is why the Secretary of State has already promised to come to the Chamber in May on the basis of the figures and to discuss the state of affairs. However, I understand very well that a lot of elderly people are afraid of this news, and so am I. Also remember that this intervention in pensions, which affects non-indexation, affects elderly people directly; but also future elderly people, people who are still working, are affected by it. There has also been talk of poverty and impoverishment. I don't think the theorem of the SP is right. Yes, there are elderly people who have the poor, and that is a disgrace, because those people have worked hard their whole lives and deserve a safe old age. However, the number of people this applies to has fallen significantly in recent years. The Netherlands should be proud of that. There is virtually no country in the world where there are fewer poor elderly people than the Netherlands. All international rankings show that too. The complexity of each debate, and therefore of this debate, is that perhaps someone is following the debate that has happened. So we have to see how we help that person, without pretending to be everyone. Also in the period 2004-2013 you can see that the disposable income of older people has risen equally and has thus increased 3% with that of those employed. Then came the crisis, which hit all the Dutch. I just mentioned the figures before the summer and today's figures. You can see we're carrying the bill together. Nobody likes that. Nobody likes that. We have tried as best we can to distribute that bill fairly, making people with higher income and a higher ability contribute more. Still doesn't make it a party. It doesn't mean you're rich. It does mean that we can work together to ensure that older people have decent care, that there will be good education later and that we can also secure the Dutch welfare state for the future. Older people have also contributed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u73	The Minister would like all the facts to come to the fore. I'd really like that, too. I would therefore like to hear that before the summer the figures were very bad and after the summer a little less bad, but also that the situation is not structural and that there is another risk of a reduction for older people for 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u74	I think this is sporty of Mr Krol, because he has acknowledged, although a little bit implicitly, that the cabinet, after having announced its intention to fix it, has also done so. So he acknowledges that, speaking of averages, the -1.7 has changed into an +0.7. In turn, Mr Krol is right that this year, in August, we must look again at the purchasing power of all Dutch people. As in previous years, the government will also take those measures in August this year that are necessary for a balanced purchasing power story for all. We have done so in the past year and we have done so in the years before. That was never easy, because unlike some people, money will not be added in August. It's always about how to divide it. Last August we did it in such a way that the -1.7 of the elderly has changed into an +0.7 now. This has been warmly awarded and rightly so, also because inflation is low, to name but a factor that helps us, but it has happened. We don't know what we're gonna be like in August. We now have no figures other than those of December last year. In August, the cabinet will make proposals to the Chamber for a balanced purchasing power development.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u75	The moment of compliments has come, I see. I welcome this commitment. Can I therefore be given the assurance that the increased local burden will be taken into account? A lot of older people are running into that now. They say: it seems a bit more, but in the end we have less left in the wallet and that has to do with the local burdens that have risen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u76	I am very pleased that Mr Krol welcomes the commitment that we will look at purchasing power in August. That is not a completely new fact; we do it every year. That is also important, because then you have all the data and you can make sure that you can finally look all Dutch in the eye, because the policy and economic conditions work in a balanced way in the wallet of Dutch people. You cannot take the local burdens into account, because they vary from municipality to municipality. What we can do, and we have done, is apply bandwidths. Firstly, it concerns the question of which taxes may be levied by municipalities. It's laid down in the law. Secondly, for example, in the case of real estate tax, there is a limitation on the extent to which the tax may increase per year. In addition, there are differences between municipalities and differences between individuals. You're gonna keep it. Again, in the end it is important that you do justice to all groups when looking at purchasing power. You'll never be able to take everything with you. A part that is difficult to include in the purchasing power picture is the factor in the cost of care. We know that older people make a lot of care costs, more than others. If you look a little better, you can see that this is above 75. The group underneath is not really different in care consumption from the groups underneath. Above 75, that is the case. You're gonna have to be sharp on that. You can never do that through purchasing power policy, but through the policy on care. You also need to ensure that municipalities deliver on their commitment to provide tailor-made services to older people who, due to the cost of care, have insufficient disposable income. This way you can zoom in on any part of the purchasing power and then you will find things you can handle and often want to do something. At the same time, you must also distance yourself from ensuring that the whole remains fair. In that sense, I fully understand Mrs Vermeij's question. If you look at all the elderly, you can see that it is in the first place a very large group and in the second place a very diverse group. It is a group that is much healthier and therefore fortunately lives much longer than older people used to. Isn't it time to take another look at old elderly notes? I find that an interesting question from Mrs Vermeij. I would like to return to the link made by several Members of Parliament with the group which is not yet entitled to a pension and for whom, above all, long-term unemployment is a huge ghost. If you do that, it can have the effect of ending up in poverty. I would therefore first like to discuss with my colleagues whether it can add anything. I do not do that from the studyable attitude Mr Van Weyenberg points out, but because it is good to see the links. When I speak to the elderly, of course, it is never just about purchasing power based on the AOW or pension, but always about the combination. That's how you live your life. It's also about your home, the care and how the kids are doing. As a whole, I find it an interesting idea, because the elderly have become such a different group than they used to be. So I'll take a look at it. I will come back to this, but I would like to discuss it first with my colleagues, who are also involved in this. Mulder, Van Weyenberg and Heerma spoke about the CBS report. Unfortunately, it's not surprising news for any of us. We know, because we see that in the numbers, it's really hard to get back to work when you're out of work at that age. We know that last year 112,000 people in that age group came back to work from the WW. Fortunately, there is that fact, but we also know that people often have to look longer. Sometimes it's about dozens or even hundreds of letters. Sometimes it doesn't work and if it doesn't work out and the WW comes to its end, the decline is hard. You'll end up in welfare with all the disadvantages of that. We can see that the employment rate of the group of people aged 55-64 in the Netherlands has increased more rapidly over the last ten years than in all other European countries. This participation is even one of the highest in Europe. There is that success. In particular, there is a huge distinction between the elderly who are at work and the elderly who are not at work. Then you will indeed find yourself in the dilemma that has been outlined here, namely whether there should be no more solidarity between those older people. Shouldn't there be a little less fine arrangements for the working elderly and a little more opportunities for the other older people? That is a fair question, a question which is now also on the table. For example, you can see it coming back into some new collective agreements. I think it's important not only to come up with a good plan. I'm working on that right now. We also agreed in the budget debate that we would ask the Central Planning Bureau to look into it. What more can we think of this spring to combat long-term unemployment among older people in particular? It's crucial that we do that. It is not only playing in the Netherlands and not just this year, because it is something that is important for the coming period. All over Western Europe, the middle-class jobs of people over 50 are under pressure. I am thinking of banks, insurers and retailers. There are cyclical factors, but also structural economic factors. We know that education is important. We know that the establishment of the labour market is important. And yes, undoubtedly the senior ambassador will be the drop that will make the bucket run in a positive way, but he will not be the only answer. In addition, the route also runs at the SER. In doing so, it zooms in on elements of the labour market which are perceived by many employers as an obstacle, namely the payment of sickness and the distinction between entrepreneurs and self-employed persons. I think it is important to keep our attention to that and to see if we can make improvements with each other in order to increase the opportunities for that group. Of course, there are always political choices under that; everyone can see that. It's hard to get into poverty that way if you were at work before. In view of the discussion in the newspapers, I understand why Mr De Graaf spoke about the stress test and its impact on pension funds. This stress test shows that Dutch pension funds are sensitive to financial shocks. This has to do with our pension system. Fortunately, we have saved a lot more than other countries. You can see that pension funds are taking risks in investments, precisely to make sure that that money saved from all of us is profitable. However, you can also see that problems can arise at very low interest rates, especially if the stock exchange is still disappointing. We're gonna have to deal with that. We've come up with rules to prevent you from spending money soon today that you actually need tomorrow. It is all the more important that we hold debates on this in May, when the figures are clearer. We know that this year's discounts will probably not be necessary, but that this could happen if it deteriorates further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u77	Then we must stop trying to save the South Boxes. Interest rates are low thanks to the ECB's policy. Then we'll have to get rid of that, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u78	Then you come into an even broader monetary discussion, the interest rate policy of the European Central Bank. At least we will now have to deal with the interest rate as it is. I think it is a step too far to say that because of the transfer by the Netherlands Bank of the position of pension funds that may arise in 2017, you should now step out of the euro, Mr De Graaf's plea. There is a great deal more to that, and we could also disagree, which is fine. However, this debate is about the purchasing power of the elderly. You can see that from -1.7 goes to +0.7. You can see the crisis hit hard there. This applies to all Dutch people, and older people have felt it especially in their pensions. It is therefore important that this beautiful system should not be forgotten that in the Netherlands there are much less poor elderly people than in other countries; that is to do with that saved pension money to be preserved for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u79	Thank you for the comprehensive answer, but the ECB's policy is the dike that has broken through. We must save the purchasing power of our older people and their well-being, their prosperity. What's happening now is mopping with the tap open. The dike is open, we try to honor, let me put it this way. The gap in the dike is the low interest rate, thanks to the ECB, because if necessary we need to save Italy, Greece, Portugal and Spain. That's where the big problem lies. Then we'll have to get rid of that, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u80	It is true that the current low interest rate is reflected in the position of pension funds. That is why it is a good thing that we have amended the rules so that you no longer only look at the current interest rate but at a multiannual average in interest rates. That improvement has been made. Otherwise, we would be much worse off by now. However, if interest rates remain low for many years, this does indeed mean less return on pensions and less security for future pensions. This concerns the pensions of all Dutch people, the people who are now receiving a pension and the people who are now working for it. You can try to influence the causes of that interest rate, and I agree with that. But even if you succeeded, you still have to deal with a number of years of low interest rates. That number of years of low interest rates affects the position of pension funds. It is not easy for us to do this; we do not suddenly create new money, even if we want to do so in order to make the sensible choices. As far as I am concerned, there are two principles. The first is to ensure that we have a system in the Netherlands in which people can enjoy a dignified but also financially safe old age. We must therefore make the right choices to allow the system to offer it. The second principle is to ensure that the system is as supportive as possible. Solidair means solidarity between rich and poor, but also between old and young. These characteristics have always been in the system in themselves, but you can see that they have been under pressure in recent years. That is all the more reason to have this debate with each other, preferably on the basis of figures that tell us more than we know now. There has now been a kind of first shot, of which I understand very well that many people are shocked, but of which you must also say, if you read exactly, that not so much is actually being said. A risk is outlined, but no certainty yet. That is why last week the Secretary of State indicated that he would return to the Chamber in May with the new figures and have the debate on them. Thanks to the seven minutes suspension granted to me, I am now also at the end of my contribution in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u81	I note the need for a second deadline, at least for Mr Krol. I'll give him the floor. Like everyone else, he has one minute's speaking time. I see some members shaking their heads, so I don't think this is going to be a very long time, but we'll see how many candidates there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u82	Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Minister is going to breed again on recovery and an integrated 50-plus note, as proposed by Mr Vermeij, and that he is prepared to do so quickly. I shall now begin filing the three motions I have prepared. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government itself stands for a balanced purchasing power development;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures as soon as possible to align the purchasing power development of all pensioners in 2016 with the purchasing power development of workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29389-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u83	I'll file the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that recent Nibud figures of 2016 again predominantly indicate a significantly less favourable purchasing power development for pensioners compared to workers;]] [[invites the government, on Princess Day, to come forward with concrete proposals to align the purchasing power of pensioners with that of workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas purchasing power effects of decentralised charges and costs, including (Wmo-related) care costs, are not sufficiently reflected in the purchasing power policy presented by the government;]] [[calls on the government, around Prinsjesdag, to come forward with proposals on how to incorporate decentralised purchasing power effects into the general purchasing power picture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29389-92]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29389-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u84	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions, the first of which is very similar to Mr Krol's, so I have the idea. We'll see about that after that. In any case, that motion reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the purchasing power of older people has been lagging behind overall purchasing power development since 2009;]] [[calls on the Government to propose to the 2017 budget measures to restore purchasing power for older people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29389-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u85	The Minister says that the Secretary of State will inform the Chamber again in May about these pensions. Yes, she has said that, but she does so every May and more often every year. There is no urgency on this point. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pension funds once again announce that price increases will not be compensated and reductions are likely;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with pension funds, to launch a recovery operation so that discounts are not necessary and indexation can take place again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29389-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr. Chairman. I'll briefly comment on the motions. In the motion in part No. 91 Mr Krol asked the government to align the purchasing power development of all pensioners in 2016 with the purchasing power development of workers in 2016. I advise against this motion. We are now in 2016 and have already taken these purchasing power measures, as I have outlined. In his motion in part No. Mr Krol invited the government to come forward with concrete proposals on Princess Day to align the purchasing power of pensioners with that of workers. I ask Mr Krol to hold this motion, so that he can then assess our proposals on Princess Day. It's a little early now. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. Mr Krol's motion for a resolution 93 is about decentralised purchasing power effects. These are in the average local burden development and are included in the CBS inflation estimate. It thus plays a role in the calculation of purchasing power. However, this is impossible for individual municipalities. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The general part is not necessary. We just had a little debate: what if my municipality greatly increases the burden? You cannot include that part in a general measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u87	I understand that it is not possible for every municipality, but fortunately we have municipal councils for that. Not for nothing is 50PLUS going to participate in that now. I am concerned that it should be taken into account more in the averages than it is now, because I am constantly hearing complaints that the municipal burden is still bringing about a substantial reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u88	It can't be taken more into it than it is now, because it's being taken into it. The average level of charges at local level is translated into inflation by the CBS. Inflation plays a crucial role in the calculation of purchasing power. Next comes the cabinet policy and there are all kinds of other things, giving you a purchasing power picture. These local burdens, at least on average, could not give a very different picture than the purchasing power picture. Of course, you'll notice in your wallet that things go out and things get in. This is always the case with purchasing power. I can take Mr Krol's concern away. Our figures take into account the average burden development at local level. If it were to rise very sharply in a number of years, it would have an effect on inflation and it would be reflected in purchasing power. Mr Ulenbelt's motion for a resolution 94 is also about measures for 2017. I commend him to hold this motion until we have been able to make proposals for it. We are talking about restoring purchasing power. We do not yet know what the purchasing power will be in 2017. The most recent data is from December 2015 and are about 2016, so the motion is really premature. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade it. This also applies to Mr Ulenbelt's motion on item No. 95. Pension funds must now initiate a fund-by-fund recovery operation themselves. In so far as this is eligible for discussion with the Chamber, it will be discussed in May. My advice is to hold the motion. If you can't, I'll advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u89	So much for this debate. I thank the Minister for his presence. We shall vote on the five motions on Tuesday. I'm suspending until 1:00. Then we have the order of business, followed by the debate on the report of the Committee of Inquiry.
