ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. From the Teeven deal to the MH17 and from the EU levy to the number of expected asylum seekers, this cabinet is lying and cheating. The citizens and the representatives of the people are always completely fooled. On the issue of De Groene Draeck, Prime Minister Rutte also misinformed the Chamber. For years, maintenance costs were €50,000 in the annual financial reports. In reality, these costs were more than double each year. The additional interview was not occasional, as the Prime Minister suggested to the Chamber, but structural. Prime Minister Rutte didn't say anything for years. The truth wasn't told. It's absurd and totally unacceptable. I have the following questions. Why has the Prime Minister constantly reported the wrong figures to the Chamber? Did he want to avoid any fuss about the cost of De Groene Draeck again? Does he understand that the public's distrust of the costs of the Royal House is only increasing? Does the Prime Minister see that the citizens are tired of being fooled every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I am happy to answer these constructive questions from Mr Bontes. Let me start by saying that the suggestion that in the documents and debates there would have been talk of incidental costs is incorrect. Both during the General Political Reviews, which took place on 17 September 2015, and in the letter of 24 September 2015 as well as in the debate on the King's budget, which took place on 14 October 2015, the cabinet has always talked about a structural debt, and I underline the word "structural" on the increase of the item in the Defence budget to €95.000. Then there was an understandable discussion about whether this amount should be that high and whether this is not a bit much. That is why, in close consultation with the Chamber, it was agreed to ask for a second opinion on the level of costs and the intensity of the maintenance of De Groene Draeck. If that second opinion, also following Mrs van der Burg's motion from the VVD, shows that things should be different, it will be reflected in the defence budget. Those are the facts. I would therefore like to leave all the insinuations to Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Prime Minister's real bullshit about maintenance costs. It is not for nothing that this is known in the ministries as rustling with budget lines. The maintenance of this yacht cost no less than 1.5 million euros between 2004 and 2015. The boat is maintained like a marine frigate, while the boat hardly ever sails. It's crazy. It's time for this royal money bounce to be stopped. It is therefore logical that the main user of this sailing yacht should pay for these costs. Princess Beatrix receives a large annual benefit from the Dutch State. My question is whether the Prime Minister is prepared to let her, and not the taxpayer, pay for these enormous costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-3.u4	There are three elements to that question. The amount and intensity of maintenance are the first two elements. The questions are real. We have talked about this in the debate on the King's budget, and it is now being investigated. Mr Bontes and I do not agree on the third element. If the Dutch people give a gift to Princess Beatrix and if it is agreed that this is a gift including the additional costs, I think it's chic that you finish it neatly. I think we should do that, but I think it is perfectly justified to look at the costs and the intensity. If it can be cheaper, I can assure Mr Bontes that I would be the first to choose it. I think he knows I'm a supporter of Dreesian thinking, although that's not from my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-3.u5	It is incomprehensible that the Prime Minister wants to continue paying the cost of maintaining this boat. These costs are high, but also unnecessary. You can't go on paying this for years, especially given the high benefit that Princess Beatrix gets? Once again, I urge the Prime Minister not to call on the taxpayer to pay for the maintenance of this boat and to leave it to the princess herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-3.u6	On that specific point, agreement is an agreement. So I do not think that this is a chic solution, and I find this somewhat disappointing from Mr Bontes, but I do agree with him that you should take a serious look at the costs and the intensity of maintenance. That is what we are doing at the moment. As soon as that's done, we'll notify the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-3.u7	The information in the Volkskrant about the maintenance of the Green Draeck is indeed unimaginable. It takes ten managers to maintain one boat. As far as I'm concerned, that can be much cheaper. I hope that the Prime Minister will really do something about it. The real point, however, is, of course, to inform the Chamber. In the state of the budget, around €50,000 in maintenance costs is reported from 2011 to 2014, while it turns out to be €100,000 or more. You can't say otherwise than that the Chamber has been misinformed, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-3.u8	The Court was informed this year about a structural increase in the amount. The fact is that for some time now there has been a discussion with, among other things, Defence about the exact level of costs. That had to be finished exactly. We did. As soon as that was completed, the Chamber was informed about both what extra afterpayment had to be made and about the structural increase I underlined once again "structural" maintenance costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-3.u9	We were just having a debate on the figures for the asylum influx in 2016. That was unclear. Now we have questions again about the cost of De Groene Draeck. It is clear that the actual costs incurred are significantly higher than those budgeted. Why hasn't that just been clarified to the Chamber, as PvdA, SP, D66 and GroenLinks keep asking? There must be transparent information on the costs of the Royal House. This must be timely information, complete information and just good information on the precise matter. It is not always necessary to say to the Chamber: look at the budget and at the structural increase in that item. No, there has to be openness about the costs actually incurred by the royal family. Why can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-3.u10	I do not understand the question, because given what was budgeted and the actual costs, the amount indeed had to be increased. That's what happened, and that's what we reported to the Chamber. The amount has been increased structurally. It's been reported to the Chamber. That's also substantiated. We then found that it is now getting very spicy and that perhaps we should look at the amount of the amount and the extent to which the maintenance is taking place. That is why the counterexpertise is now taking place. Let me say again: on 17 September at the General Reviews, in my letter of 24 September and then at the debate on the budget on 14 October, it has always been said that this is a structural increase in the post. That turned out to be necessary, after, of course, we had a discussion with the Defense Department about this: what exactly, where do these amounts come from, is this true? These were found to be significant costs incurred. Again: you can find everything from the height and there is the second opinion for that. We have also structurally increased the cost. So everything has always been shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-3.u11	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply.
