ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. There's nothing as annoying as endless queues on our flight vacation or business trip. This weekend the weather was hit at Schiphol Airport: long queues of over an hour, accidents on the escalators and many unmanned passport booths. That wasn't the first time. In 2007, almost ten years ago, transport minister Eurlings said that the Marechaussee at Schiphol Airport has to do with structural understaffing. At the end of last year, the CEO of Schiphol was himself the alarm clock about this serious problem. Schiphol invests $400 million in security and control. For the attractiveness of our airport, being able to switch is a crucial factor. The competitiveness of our mainport must not be compromised either because the government is failing and its business is not in order. I have some questions for the Secretary of State. Does she see this structural problem? Does it also see that this problem further jeopardises the competitive position of Schiphol and KLM? Does it now finally respond to the call by politics and industry to address its colleagues in the defence and security and justice sector in the interests of the competitiveness of our airport Schiphol?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is absolutely true that last Saturday there were very long queues at border control at Schiphol Airport. I very much agree with Mr Verhoeven that this is particularly annoying for passengers, but also for the organisations behind it. The Marechaussee has reported to us and I am committed to saying that last Saturday was the result of a coincidence of different circumstances: a peak moment in passenger supply, a number of incidents including a confused person and a bomb threat, and a number of so-called second-line operations such as outstanding fines. This made it all come together. At the same time, we can see that the pressure on the military is high for two reasons. The first reason is that the number of passengers is growing again, and that is welcome news. That is good, and I say with Mr Verhoeven that we would like to support and accommodate that. The second reason is that the migratory flows that have begun, and the threat of terrorism, are causing a great deal of pressure on the capacity of the military police. There is no need to appeal to my colleagues through me. It has always been said that we need to look at this. I have also understood from the Ministry of V and J, because that is their responsibility, that there has been additional funding for six additional platons for the 'guarding and securing' task. At the moment there is recruitment and selection for those platoons and that means that there will also be additional capacity for Schiphol at some point. I hope that we will take another step in the right direction, because that is indeed necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u3	I am pleased that the Secretary of State at least agrees with me on the problem I am referring to, but of course we are not there yet. I do find it worrying that the Secretary of State at the beginning of her reply says that it has been an unfortunate coincidence. That may be true, but we had this problem in 2007. It is now nine years later and it is not the case that we still have the same problem as a result of an unfortunate coincidence. This is because the deeper, underlying problem has not yet been solved. And that is not the quality of the Marechaussee, because that is not what we are talking about here, but that is pure capacity. The Secretary of State hopes that six platons will ensure that the problem is solved, but after nine years of muddling with this problem, hope is really not enough. The Secretary of State is responsible for Schiphol and KLM. I would just like to mention that. I understand very well that the Secretary of State is not formally concerned with the use of the military police, but she is in charge of the political direction of Schiphol. Does the Secretary of State recognise that the formal division of labour within the Cabinet does not relieve her of her own responsibility to do everything to strengthen Schiphol's competitive position? Is it prepared to discuss this matter with its colleagues in defence and security and justice in the near future and also to inform the Chamber about a structural solution to this problem in the near future? I say again that it must be a structural solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u4	Fortunately, Mr Verhoeven does not have a patent for analysis, because I would like to say to him that, of course, in those nine years, there have been other circumstances which can now pose the same problem. I mean that, of course, we have not been idle in recent years. Since 2012, several opportunities have already been introduced to organise, for example, accelerated border crossings, both for people from Member States of the European Union and for people from third countries. Technological progress is, therefore, really doing something at many times to speed people up along border controls. At the same time, we cannot close our eyes to the recent circumstances, such as the threat of terrorism and migratory flows, which put a great deal of pressure on the military. When Mr Verhoeven looks around, he sees it. Luckily, the decision has just been taken that there should be a total additional capacity. Whether that solves all the problems, I can't say yet. I can say that we are indeed taking responsibility for the competitiveness of Schiphol. That's very important. The cabinet is currently making the action agenda Schiphol. Various topics, such as the accessibility of Schiphol Airport and also this theme, should be given a place in it to further shape the growth of our mainport. That is where Mr Verhoeven and I find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u5	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u6	I also see that the threat of terror and refugee flows have increased pressure on the military police. We all see that, but I'm approaching it from another side now. Schiphol is our international mainport; Schiphol is our national job engine, but Schiphol is currently suffering from international developments, by foreign competitors entering into new alliances. So we must not let a national problem, a national problem, stand in the way of future opportunities for Schiphol. The Secretary of State refers to an action agenda and says that it has not been idle. No, but the passengers have had to stop at Schiphol Airport very often in recent years. So I call on the Secretary of State to stop stalling and really take a step which she can take from her responsibility for Schiphol, namely to engage in the conversation. I believe that there should be a summit between the Ministries of Security and Justice, the Ministry of Defence and its own Ministry with the aim of solving this problem in a structural manner. Then it is not about who is concerned with what or who has the formal responsibility. Let's just keep KLM and Schiphol strong. So I really hope for action in the form of an emergency consultation and a letter of inquiry with an ambitious approach, so that we can debate before the summer and we will not be standing here again in seven or nine years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u7	I understand this campaign manager very well, but I would like to say the following to him. In high spirits, asking for something that you're actually already getting, so can I. Mr Verhoeven knows that the consultations between the various departments have been going on for a long time. I have been in this post for a few months now, and believe me, I also believe that we need to put an urgent action plan before the summer. That's what we promised the Chamber. The Agenda for Action will cover all these issues, whether it is about security, about how it goes on with Schiphol station or about accessibility. The Chamber gets that agenda and knows it. I am glad that at least one group in this House already supports all this action in advance. I'm glad. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u8	As a campaign leader, I would say: let's go!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u9	I'd say we're doing the same thing. It's just that not everyone sees it all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u10	I don't want to be a game spoiler, but it's not funny at all what's happening here. We have been fighting this cabinet for a long time to ensure that the security services do not fail. Now the security services at Schiphol Airport appear from all over the Netherlands just through their hooves. And what's the story? There are a few platoons invented and huge tasks are invented. So the appeal to this cabinet is to make sure that our security services, which also includes the Marechaussee, do not fail through them. Can this Secretary of State, with her involvement in this subject, ensure that she burns colleagues forward? 'Cause that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u11	I have just stated in substance how important it is that we make meters on this subject. I have also indicated that I do not only understand this, but also my colleagues. It is a pity, I say to this Chamber through the President, that I have to take this debate with you on their behalf, because this is not my first responsibility, but I do not want to hide behind my colleagues either. This means that we work together through that Agenda for Action. I do object to one comment. It is quite annoying for passengers to have to wait a long time, but there is no concession in the area of security. It is important to say this again here, because that is what the Marechaussee stands for. In the case of incidents, it sometimes means that things are not all that fast, but it is precisely because people want to guarantee the level of security for the citizens, and rightly so, I think. Otherwise, the Chamber would appeal to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u12	Unlike the questioner, this is not just about KLM. These are passengers from all airlines, including the people who have worked hard and who want to go on holiday with Transavia or with Arkefly. We find a response for the summer very late. I think it has been announced that this agenda for action would come sooner. My question is: 'I am missing this in the answer 'whether an important reason is not in the fact that Schiphol has a new check-in system, one of the most modern efficient check-in systems so that passengers can now be helped much faster.' They must then be redirected to the military. Did the marshalssee expand her capacity? Is she sufficiently responsive to that new check-in system? I often get sounds that are due to that and have not yet been adapted to that new circumstance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u13	I see that there is a great deal of investment, also by Schiphol, as I think was just recalled, in order to make progress in the technical field. This includes agreements, which will make it easier, for example, to transfer people from EU Member States or from third countries. That is what we are working on together. You can also see that sometimes technical problems in these systems cause delays. I cannot now tell Mr Monasch exactly how close the alignment between Schiphol and the Marechaussee is, of course, partly a subject that concerns my colleague, but I do know that there is a lot of consultation between the various departments and the management of Schiphol. I therefore believe that this is happening regularly, and I cannot imagine that, in response to Mr Monasch, I would say that this subject would not be on the agenda if it were such a big problem. That's what I'm assuming. If not, it should.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u14	Sometimes an incident is a good reason to look around us again and ask the question where we actually stand. The economic importance of Schiphol is enormous. There are 65,000 direct jobs and nearly 300 000 indirect jobs involved, and a contribution of 26 billion to gross national product. It is also good to hear that the Secretary of State indicates that no concessions are made to safety. It is annoying that there was therefore a kind of clot in an incident, but that can happen naturally if you use that starting point. My question to the Secretary of State concerns the economic point of view. Does the economic importance of Schiphol remain a guiding principle for this State Secretary if it is ensured that any problems such as those that have now occurred are avoided as far as possible? That is in Mr Monasch's point about the use of new systems, as well as the possible shift in numbers of marechaussees. In short, it's the whole picture. Does the Secretary of State still have the economic interest in this, in addition to, of course, the security interest? Does the Commission intend to monitor this interest in the next six months in the run-up to the week-to-week note?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-5.u15	I will do no different than that, because that is very important for the BV Netherlands. There is also an ecological interest. That's what we take with us all the time. That agenda for action really comes sooner than six months from now. That was also promised to the Chamber. Just because we agree that the mainport deserves opportunities for growth, we will also do everything we can to make it a good agenda.
