ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am well aware that we are now standing here because Mr Kuzu and probably all of us want to say something about the heartbreaking situation in Aleppo. I am going to do so, but it is perhaps also good to say that this debate was originally requested by the VVD, already on 16 February this year, because the VVD was concerned about the rapidly derailing developments in the military field. Our F-16s performed at the time and there was already a sky-rending situation at that time in which part of the Chamber, including us, insisted on food drips. Fortunately, I read in the letter that this unusual step has now been taken. The course of this terrible civil war, which has been going on for six years, has been tilted in favour of the Assad regime. This puts us in a very serious dilemma, which I would like to put at the centre of this debate and which I shall end with. For example, are we prepared to cooperate with the current winners because we want to help the victims? Or do we stick to our universal principles, which seem hopelessly to fail before our eyes? Not a day goes by that I don't look in my stomach with a button at the images of children, sometimes of the age of my own daughter, who are pulled out of the rubble. From the letter I make it clear that rescue workers can still do that with Dutch support. But then these children are transported to hospitals that are then bombed again. Then I experience the total powerlessness of the international community, to which we ourselves attribute ourselves, to enable a cease-fire or a simple humanitarian convoy. There are many failed states in the world and for some of them the West bears a great co-responsibility. But the conflict in Syria is by far the most gruesome and here there is no intervention, except against ISIS in the east and that's where it works. For us, for the West, for those countries that strive for universal values and thus also try to carry the UN, the adage of Colin Powell is to a large extent valid: if you break it, you own it. And then you get humanitarian support. And then you get reconstruction. There are countries that are always called the international community, that allow themselves to be addressed as if they were an actor and send those ambassadors, from Kofi Annan to Staffan de Mistura. In short, these are countries that we hope will have their hands on. But reality on the ground is determined by the one with the finger on the trigger. There are countries that veto an aid convoy, a ceasefire or even a simple press release in the Security Council. They've been doing that for a year and a half. Now they seem to have determined Syria's future in a day and a half, because the Moscow-Teheran-Ankara axis today reached an agreement on Syria's political future. The murder of the Russian envoy doesn't change that. The fight against Sunni rebels is the starting point. In Astana, they force peace talks between Assad and the same rebels, but the U.S. has not been invited, the UN has not been informed and countries from France to the Netherlands have checked. Once again, the success of diplomacy is not determined by how well the conversation is going, but by how much sense the main party has in a solution. In that light, a passage from the Minister's letter is significant. I quote: 'The fall of Aleppo does not mean the end of the war in Syria, but does ensure that Assad has a strong negotiating position'. That's right. But then: "To put an end to the conflict, all warring parties will have to face their military restrictions." Only then will we have a ceasefire, a political agreement and humanitarian access. These three outcomes are currently dictated by the sponsors of the warring parties themselves: the people with the finger on the trigger. This raises the question of whether we should tell them that there are military restrictions on their solutions or whether we should now see our own diplomatic restrictions: the hands of the steering wheel. Because reality is no longer defined in Vienna, Geneva or New York, but in Moscow, Tehran and Astana. I read that the Dutch bet has five tracks. I fully support them, still. Only the very uncomfortable feeling comes to mind that these five tracks are somewhat detached from reality, from the agenda set elsewhere. Shouldn't we focus our eyes on the ball that we can play: ISIS, which now has Palmyra again? They are nasty dilemmas, but they are questions to which we now have to find an answer in our aid relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u3	At the end of Mr Ten Broeke's speech there was a turn of events which surprised me. I, too, will be asking whether we should continue on the same track or whether there are other ways to go. Combating ISIS is a separate parallel route, so that cannot be the solution to the problems we now have in north-west Syria. Does the VVD now have another line for that area, for example by putting more pressure on Moscow and Tehran, or does it say: we simply have nothing to do here, so let us just focus on the fight against ISIS in the east? That's not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u4	In the five tracks there is indeed also the approach of ISIS. I think that's the trail on which we can be most successful. That is what we are doing, of course, with the training of the peshmerga in northern Iraq and until recently we did so with planes above Iraq and fortunately also over Syria, fortunately with the support of Mr Servaes. As far as I am concerned, that is the ball on which we must focus. That is where we can achieve the greatest effect of restoring stability in those countries which have been disrupted. On the other hand, where Tehran and Moscow need to be addressed, I would argue in favour of only one way of putting it. - modesty. With my agreement, both ambassadors have been summoned here by the Foreign Minister. I have seen the demands we have made in this regard. Those are the demands of the international community, which now has the check. I think we should be honest. We have to face the fact that these demands are not being met in Geneva at the moment, not in Vienna, nor in New York at the moment. These demands are currently being met in Moscow with the influence of Tehran and later in Astana, in a way that may not always please us as much. That diplomatic reality commands us to be a little more modest and not just to remind the other of the military limitation, but also to face its own diplomatic restrictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u5	I believe that we all feel very strongly about these diplomatic restrictions. I remember the Minister, when he came back from the UN General Assembly in New York, telling me how he sat in front of a Syrian delegation and said with Kerry: we are standing here empty-handed. That realization that we don't break pots, that the world doesn't listen to us, is, I think, widely shared. I honestly think you should ask yourself the question: what do I do with it? Looking back at Ten Broeke's original request for debate in February, I think: should we not have increased the pressure on Moscow by more robust means, i.e. sanctions? I'm not doing this out of some kind of hindsight or anything, but I'm also doing it to look to the future. Are we prepared to exert pressure, or is the cynical real-political conclusion: we are out of play and we must accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u6	That's exactly the point. I believe that the West and certainly the Netherlands have tried to exert all possible forms of pressure. I know that from this minister. This also means that the powerlessness is so great and the frustration is probably even greater. Looking back, we need to be real. There have been a number of times when the West may have overestimated the influence it can exercise itself or which gives it to the supporting institutions that the international community must support, such as the UN. If we go back into this conflict, we must ask ourselves whether we have not been too quick to delegitate the position of Assad, which we now have to sit around the table with, even when it comes to aid convoys. That is a mistake, if it is already a mistake, made by my group, for example. I have to be honest about that myself. At the end of 2013, a red line was agreed, which was not maintained. Big countries don't bluff, said the U.S. Vice President, but it did. In the vacuum that was created there, the Russians dived. My party said at that time: if we had intervened then perhaps we could have bombed those airports. It's now after and we can't get it back. Then comes the time when Putin comes to the United Nations General Assembly, after ten years, to give a speech to teach the whole Western world and all the international institutions, from Kosovo to Libya. And now his attitude in the Syrian conflict. Where we were told at the time that the Foreign Minister was waiting for that olive branch, he had already given the order to his bombers. Three times, at three crucial moments in this conflict, the Western world failed. I think that the time has now come for us, at the time we say that it must happen again and so on, to face the fact that what is happening now through the sponsors of this terrible war is a reality that we cannot deny and which may require the adjustment of the five tracks. I'd like to see how much of this stays up. I hope that if we have to request another debate in a year's time, we will not find that it has not been effective enough...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u8	... because we continued to work through the existing paths.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr. Chairman. I am speaking on behalf of the SGP tonight. I welcome the two rulers to the Chamber, in particular the Foreign Minister, who has just returned from a tour of the Middle East. I understand that he has also been to Iraq and visited the liberated villages there. Maybe the minister can tell us something about what he found there. I understand that he was also in Egypt and expressed his condolences to the Coptic Pope Tawadros II, about the terrible bombing that took place in a Coptic Church last week. He may see an opportunity to offer medical assistance in the Netherlands if necessary. The Minister was in Cairo for a two-day EU-Arab conference, including on conflicts in the Middle East. What are the results of this consultation? Has there been any discussion from the Arab side about the possibility of receiving refugees in the Arab states? What's their involvement right now? What has been said about the fight against ISIS and their involvement in it? Ministers write in their letter about dramatic developments in Aleppo. We also saw that at the Twitter girl Bana from Aleppo. Fortunately, she is now safe, but we know that this is not yet the case for thousands of others. People are being redirected to Idlib. Can the Minister tell us where most refugees are going? There are rumors that men and women are separated. That reminds us of the fall of Srebrenica. What do the rulers perceive of these rumors, that women and children are separated from men? Where are the women and children taken care of? Are they actually going to Idlib? Do they threaten to face further bombings by the regime of Assad and Russia? Can the two rulers give more insight into this? Fortunately, a resolution was adopted in the Security Council to launch a monitoring mission. I ask the rulers to what extent these monitors are already on the spot and how many there are. What exactly are they going to do and are the Dutch involved in that monitoring mission? Mr Ten Broeke outlined the dilemma of the western powers watching powerlessly the Turks on the one hand and Russia, Assad and Iran on the other hand when it comes to the division of power in Syria. How does the Foreign Minister estimate the talks currently taking place in Moscow between Turkey and Russia? There is a great fear among the Kurds that the Turks want the desired buffer zone in the northeast guaranteed by the Russians. Can the Minister make an effort within the European Union to appeal to the Turks to ensure that they cannot enforce a buffer of ten, fifteen, twenty kilometres in the Kurdish part? As far as it is in his power to appeal to the Turks. They are a NATO ally of ours and there are indeed lines. I now come to my questions to the Minister for Development and Cooperation on aid to refugees. Turkey seems to be coordinating the reception of refugees from Aleppo at the moment. How is the Netherlands still involved in helping these refugees? What kind of organizations does that go through? We know it is also stated in the Minister's letter that the White Helmets are doing their job there and there is also support from the free Syrian police, but what role is the Netherlands still playing in this international assistance? What are the parallel dialogues in the Syrian Support Group's track 2 to bring the Syrians together with influence on the warring parties? Finally, what concrete support can we expect not only from the Netherlands but also from the European Union if the people are actually evacuated from Aleppo?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. The Assad regime has recaptured Aleppo with allies. The images that have been shown of this have filled us with great horror. Many civilians have died, war crimes have been committed and the international community stood by and turned to it. As far as the SP is concerned, all attention must be focused internationally on achieving a ceasefire. Only when this is achieved can steps be taken towards other, more far-reaching plans. The situation today is half a million deaths, millions of refugees and still no serious prospect of peace in Syria. The recent consultations between Russia, Iran and Turkey seem to be encouraging. It could be the re-launch of a peace process in the region. I have a few questions that are linked to that. Is it true that Turkey no longer demands Assad's departure? If so, is that part of Turkey's rapprochement with Russia? Does that include the message from the British Daily Mail that Turkey would replace NATO officers with more pro-Russian officers? Such developments would be extremely worrying. Last week, the Assad regime made a deal to evacuate people. I read in the Minister's letter that 25,000 people would have been evacuated, but I also hear much higher numbers. Can the Minister clarify this? The UN Security Council decided the day before yesterday to send observers to Aleppo to monitor the evacuation. The question is whether this decision was taken on time. Russia and Turkey have indicated that the evacuations can be completed within two days. What picture does the Minister have of this? Last week, in Jeroen Pauw's discussion programmes, the Minister made the comparison with the fall of Srebrenica. About 8,000 Muslim men and boys were killed. In Aleppo, a similar genocide would now threaten. I ask the Minister to explain that. The fact is that the use of the term "genocide" is very burdensome, including international obligations arising from the UN Genocide Convention. What implications does the use of this term have in this case? Some cannot stress enough that the struggle in Aleppo is directed against terrorists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u11	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u12	No, I'm not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u13	Would you like to finish your sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u14	With that sentence, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u15	Well, then I give the floor to Mrs..., Mr. Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mrs Ten Broeke is still waiting for her. So that... you can wait a long time before it comes here. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Bommel just quoted a Pauw broadcast in which the minister would have referred to Srebrenica. I saw that broadcast too, but I didn't hear him use the term "genocide." Now we know that in all the debates we have to close reading with Mr Van Bommel so that we do not misunderstand him. If we don't, he'll run away very easily. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister said 'genocide' there or whether, as many people have done in the Chamber, he has made a comparison. For example, I myself mentioned Grozny with all his horrors. Did the minister really say "genocide"? I ask that because Mr Van Bommel says in the first term that it is about the use of the term 'genocide'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u17	For the record, if I had said that the Minister used the word "genocide," I would take it back. Then that's a slip of the tongue on my part. I said: the comparison has been made with Srebrenica, and Srebrenica is one-on-one the same as genocide in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u18	In many other countries, for example, the horrific fall of cities or territories is also treated as genocide or mass murder. This Chamber is quite strong in the discussion on definition issues. That does not really seem appropriate for this debate. That is why we have to quote each other carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u19	What matters to me is the implication. When reference is made to Srebrenica, reference is made to a situation in which, in my opinion, also under international conventions, Member States have a responsibility to do something, whether further militaryly defined or otherwise. That is an obligation under the Genocide Convention. If only reference was made here to a terrible situation, as in the case of Armenia sometimes 'terrible events' is used as a term, then I think it is something else. As far as I am concerned, Srebrenica is one-on-one the same as genocide, but I invite the Minister to go into that further. Some cannot stress enough that the struggle in Aleppo was directed against terrorists. These include fighters from Ahrar al-Sham and Al-Nusra, until recently the official branch of Al-Qaeda in Syria and in the past from Islamic State in Iraq. Critical journalists and investigators confirm that image. Even the Special Envoy for Syria, De Mistura, recently stated that no less than 30% of the fighters in Aleppo were Al-Nusra. Can the Minister respond to this? To what extent are the rebels in Syria dominated by jihadist organizations, organisations that still have foreign support, including Western allies? What is the situation in Idlib, where thousands of people from Aleppo go? Is that where jihadists run things? The fall of Aleppo does not mean the end of the battle in Syria, says the minister. Nor does it mean an end to the many sieges by the Assad regime as well as by other parties in the conflict, which affects more than one million citizens. In the past, together with Mr D66, I have repeatedly argued for food drips as a last resort. Yeah, there's a lot of hooks and eyes on that, but where it can be, it could be a last resort. I am glad that this step is now being taken on an occasional basis. No chance of improving the living situation should be missed. Does the Minister see any additional possibilities in this respect? Many citizens from Aleppo are now displaced. There are reports that everything is lacking in refugee camps, for example in Al-Kamouna near the border with Turkey. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether the Netherlands can make any improvements to this? I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr. Chairman. A terrible humanitarian tragedy has been taking place in Syria for a long time. Especially if we have the recent images in Aleppo on the retina, we can only think that it could not be worse, but we thought that the month before and the month before. I think of the horrible images of the 5-year-old Omran from Aleppo, who was taken from the rubble under the blood. I'm thinking of the 7-year-old Bana, who tried to move the world through Twitter. She seems to be safe now, unlike so many others who lost their lives. We also think of the many people from East Aleppo who posted videos on social media last week, afraid of imminent disaster. The videos were a cry for help, a desperate attempt to get the international community into action, and at the same time sometimes a farewell. These images reveal the indescribable human suffering. It defies all imagination, but it is also the deepest reality. The warring parties cross all borders. The use of chemical weapons, the attack of shelters, hospitals, schools, auxiliary convoys and even buses for evacuation, the execution of innocent civilians, it is all of such unprecedented cruelty that a UN official said: it is a complete meltdown of humanity. The tyrannical tandem Assad-Poetin has simply kept a terrible home. Of course, in Aleppo too, terrorist movements have been hiding and taking advantage of the situation. How's it going now? The government writes in its letter: "A Sunni majority will not be subject to violent minority government in the longer term without a large-scale campaign of ethnic cleansing." I would like to ask what ominous message and what analysis is still behind this. Moscow, Tehran and Ankara are now continuing peace talks. Assad, the rebels and the United States have not been invited. The UN is out of play and the European Union is not at all at stake. In this context, like Mr Ten Broeke, I should also like to reflect on the role played by the West. We have been held hostage by Russia in the Security Council. That's right, there wasn't a single press release coming out. Russia blocked resolutions over and over again. We stayed silent on the violation of the red line Obama pulled in 2013. That overrun remained unanswered. On behalf of my group I would like to say that we would have been more vocal there, that we should have been more active and that we should not have let that happen. That was a mistake. At the same time, I wonder whether we have extradited the Syrians to Putin's realpolitik. Actually, I don't think so. I would ask the Minister to reflect on that. Putin did it himself. The Minister says he strongly condemns what is happening there. I do. I wouldn't want to put the head in the lap, like perhaps some others in the Chamber. If this is strongly condemned, I would like to ask the Minister whether we should not have come much earlier with additional sanctions towards the country which has acted very cynically here, namely Russia. Or do we need additional sanctions now? The Minister says he wants to counter impunity and develop an initiative for it. I'd love to go along with that. In the context of the current situation, I would like to ask him what this will look like. In any case, I would not like to do what Mr Ten Broeke proposes, which is just to focus on ISIS. This ignores the fact that Assad is actually the midwife of this terrorist organisation. On a humanitarian level, I would like to ask Minister Ploumen one more question. I think we can also mean something to the refugees, the evacuated from Aleppo. We can do more than we do now. I see what is in the budget for next year. There's still money left this year. That is why I tabled an amendment with Mr Van Veldhoven for EUR 40 million. I would like a response from this minister. I believe that next year there will be less money available than this year and the money is unlikely to be needed to provide shelter in the region. With regard to the possibility, the desirability, the usefulness and the need for food drips, I would like to support Mr Van Bommel's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u21	Let's make a correction. I didn't say the ball should be aimed only at ISIS. We can probably make the biggest difference, however, in our own terms. I have wondered, and Mr Sjoerdsma knows this, whether we can develop, in particular, the humanitarian trail, but also a number of other traces of Dutch policy mentioned in the letter, just as effectively against the background of the reality that is now taking place elsewhere. That is not the reality of New York, it is the reality of Moscow. That is not the reality of the international community, but the reality of what I call 'the countries with the fingers on the trigger'. That's just my correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u22	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u23	Mr Sjoerdsma is asking for extra money for the region. That's what we're always for. I want to tell him something about the extra money he wants to spend right now. Firstly, I would like to refer him to the answer given this afternoon by the Minister of Finance when discussing the Navy note on the amendment he and a colleague of his tabled. For emergency aid, I believe it was programmed to amount to some 170 million. I believe that a large proportion of this has been spent, about 90%. The fact that there will be extra money now has to do with the fact that there are low projections for asylum influx. That is the direct consequence of the Turkey deal that D66 rejected. That's gonna get us more money now. This money must be returned to the budget first and foremost in order to correct the deficits. For that, the cabinet, if I do have it, has managed to clear 57 million. I do not quite understand Mr Sjoerdsma's plea. He's playing with money that's the proceeds of something he was against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u24	That was an unlikelyly long story, but I am pleased that Mr Ten Broeke is correcting this and says that he also does not want to take on board a strategy aimed only at combating ISIS in his approach to Syria. In previous debates, this has been somewhat more unclear, but he also acknowledges that Assad is a major problem and that we may need to be fierce against someone who deals with it in this way. Mr Ten Broeke often pleads for a realpolitik, of which I wonder whether it is in our long-term interests. Furthermore, Mr Ten Broeke asks whether what I propose is really necessary. I would like to paraphrase Minister Dijsselbloem's reply this afternoon. He says that as the Netherlands we are already doing enough, I partly agree with that, because we are doing an improbably large amount of work, but next year's humanitarian effort is far less than this year. We can complement this commitment with the under-exhaustment of the first-year asylum shelter, because that money is still available at the moment. That is also an opinion of the BOR. Mr Ten Broeke says that we have to fill holes with that money, but I want to put the ball back with him. This cabinet has struck a 2 billion hole in the budgets for development cooperation for the coming years. That 2 billion could also have been spent on reception in the region. That does not happen because of your policy, Mr Ten Broeke, so do not come to me with the claim that I should use that money in a different way. I'm looking for ways to close the holes you punched. That's what's needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u25	Now Mr Sjoerdsma is making it all the way. If there are gaps, it is because the Minister for BuHa-OS has spent an enormous amount of money because of a huge crisis which is unprecedented and which we are discussing here tonight. It has led to millions of refugees over the last six years. The Minister for BuHa-OS has often drawn on it and has also pulled the pouch, and rightly so, with the support of everyone here. Now, by the end of that period, most of the money has been spent. There's only one reason why money's coming back now. The cabinet can use more money again because of the Turkey deal that you rejected from start to finish, Mr Sjoerdsma. It would be good if you recognized that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u26	In many respects, this is really a sought-after argument and a sought-after reproach. I regret that, because this cabinet period has been made available a lot of extra money for humanitarian aid, not for this year, but for the years before. This was done with your support, but the cabinet owes a great deal to Mr Voordewind, who is also speaking on behalf of the SGP today, whom I am right to take with him and to my party. And...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u27	Mr Voordewind also has a question. Oh, sorry, you weren't done!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u28	Furthermore, it is true that the refugee crisis has attracted a major change in Minister Ploumen's budget. That's absolutely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u29	That windfall wasn't just caused by the Turkey deal. This is mainly due to the fact that the Balkan countries had closed their borders, which prevented these refugees from getting through. But that aside. Mr Sjoerdsma just had a reflection on whether we should not have done more. When Obama drew a red line, shouldn't we have made a stronger sound if the Netherlands didn't? Ten Broeke just had the same kind of reflection. We can indeed look back, and in Iraq and Afghanistan we did intervene. But if you were to cross the line, what would have been the possibilities? Then we would have had a full-scale war between America and Russia in Syria itself. Weren't there any more victims? I realize it is looking back, but since Mr Sjoerdsma himself cut this point, I would like to have a reflection on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u30	It's a fair question. At the same time, it is a difficult question. Let me quote Mr Van Bommel for a change: we can never know the alternative course of history. However, I note that there has been a repeated commitment in Syria to an initial deployment of chemical weapons, when we as an international community promised that we would not accept them. We then see that the threshold for the deployment, displacement and multiplication of chemical weapons has also been lowered in other countries. I think that is a very big problem, the blurring of exactly that standard. Would that have led to a large-scale American-Russian war? Yes, that is Mr Voordewind's view. Would it have made a difference if we had spoken out in this Parliament? That's just the question. The decisive factor in this was, of course, the United States. When I look back, I notice that there should have been another sound, a louder and more consistent sound. I wonder, however, whether we could have played a bigger or all-encompassing role in this. We're the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u31	I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. What we could have done more strongly, but it was not up to Mr Sjoerdsma and me, but to other Members of this Parliament............................................................................................................................................................................................... We have just heard sounds of nerve gas being transported through Turkey to Syria. That is something that the Chamber may be very open-minded about, but that was not up to Mr Sjoerdsma or me or Mr Knops, because we have always discussed Turkey's position with Mr De Roon. There is no doubt that we agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u32	That's right. That's a big deal. It is a broad shared feeling and sentiment and a broad shared discomfort that we have talked for a long time during these discussions about the border between Turkey and Syria and about what went beyond that border. I agree with what Mr Voordewind said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u33	For the Acts: Mr Sjoerdsma tries to quote me, but does not come out entirely. I want to give him a hand. The pronunciation is not my own, because I quote it myself "the hallmark of every history is that it conceals its alternate course." We owe a great deal to Mr Joris Voorhoeve, who is now a member of Mr Sjoerdsma's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u34	I would like to thank Mr Van Bommel for this even more poetic version of what I have been able to call from behind the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr. Chairman. Like everyone here, the PVV regrets the large number of civilian casualties in Syria, another half a million I believe, and now again in the fight for Aleppo. I note, however, that it is not just Assad and his allies who make civilian victims and probably commit war crimes. That's what the opponents do. These are mainly Sunni fighters associated with Al-Qaeda and similar organisations. The image that only Russian and Syrian bombings are causing large-scale casualties is unbalanced. The opponent is just as cruel. In the Syrian civil war there would have been fewer victims if foreign powers and forces had not supported the Sunni fighters, moderate or not. That armed opposition at first did not stand a chance until the opposition was strengthened by foreign interference and arms supplies. Influence and support by foreign powers and forces of all fighting Syrian parties has only led to worsening and prolonging of the conflict. The desire for Assad to disappear can support the PVV, but military interference to achieve that goal was and is wrong and has only led to unnecessary misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mr. De Roon, you need to stop. I miss the Secretary of State. He's just supposed to be in "K." We'll wait. Proceed, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u37	Perhaps we will be told what important state affairs have made the Foreign Minister disappear. I'm picking up my speech again. The desire for Assad to disappear can support the PVV, but military interference to achieve that goal was and is wrong and has led to unnecessary misery. I am talking primarily about arms supplies to the rebels by Saudi Arabia and Qatar with the cooperation of Turkey, but also about assistance from Iran, Hezbollah and ultimately Russia to the Assad regime. Moreover, the extension of the conflict through foreign interference has also enabled the establishment of the Islamic State. Fortunately, the Netherlands has never been involved in the direct military interference with the civil war there, but I have not been able to catch our government in a great deal of opposition to the armament of the insurgents by the Gulf States with the cooperation of Turkey. Then there's still the question: why not? Actually, it's always been denied. It's not exactly verbatim denied, but it's always been pretended that you couldn't see at all that that happened. Actually, it was just ignored. In my view, Turkey's role, a NATO ally, was particularly bad. Turkey was able to act under the protection of an umbrella of Dutch Patriotic missiles. The government should be ashamed of that now. The role of Turkey is still particularly bad at the moment. Turkey has its own agenda in Syria and Iraq. This has nothing to do with the protection of citizens, but everything to do with the establishment of its own dominant position and repression of the Kurds. Why does the Netherlands not condemn this Turkish commitment? As far as PVV is concerned, there is every reason to do so. The five-track policy has been derailed, Mr Ten Broeke said. I agree with him. We are not at the ball in Western Syria at all at the moment. Moscow, Tehran, Assad and Ankara are there at the ball. That game will probably lead to a result that we are not very happy with, but it may well lead us to hope for an end to the battle. For the PVV, the main objective in Syria is the destruction of Islamic State and Al-Qaeda. The fact that Islamic State has recaptured Palmyra and was able to exploit anti-aircraft weapons is very bad news. What opportunities does the government see for bringing that primary objective, the destruction of ISIS and Al-Qaeda, closer? Destruction of the warriors there is much more important than interfering with what is happening in western Syria. Humanitarian aid is once again being advocated by several parties this evening. I believe that humanitarian aid is certainly needed for the people of Aleppo, but it is above all the responsibility of those who have been feeding and perpetuating that war by proxy. The Netherlands has already spent EUR 360 million on this. The Sjoerdsma motion announced for an additional 40 million in humanitarian aid may give us a good Christmas feeling, but as far as I am concerned, we should not do that. It is others who are responsible for this misery. They have to take the fall for that now. Our government must appeal to them. I invite the government to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u38	Mr. Chairman. Iraq, Afghanistan, Egypt, Tunisia, Libya, Syria; the promise of freedom and democracy sounded in these countries from 2011. But there was no freedom or more democracy. The Arab Spring has become a cold Arab autumn. So many civilians, but also Dutch boys and girls who were sent out after an illegal raid, have lost their lives for what unfortunately turned out to be an empty promise. There was no democracy, but a cycle of violence following violence. Also in Syria in 2011 sounded that peaceful call for democracy. Anno 2016, five years later, Syria has 5 million inhabitants less than then. Half a million people have been killed and millions have fled. The United Nations has now stopped counting dead and wounded, because the terror of Assad and other parties can no longer be maintained. Even now, as we speak here, the number of Syrian deaths and injuries may well increase. The footage of Aleppo I saw last week is heartbreaking. A lot of words have been said about this too. Unfortunately, the international community does not seem able to stop this tragedy. The people in Aleppo are the victims of a deadly chess game between regional and global superpowers. What's our role in this chess game? Our bombs also cause people to flee and die. In the meantime, we see a great deal of xenophobia against the people fleeing violence and terror. They are called "happiness seekers" here in the Netherlands. Some people don't even think these people deserve bed, bath and bread. I am ashamed of this, and we should all do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u39	A question, however, to understand it yourself. Mr Kuzu says here that our bombs have caused the flow of refugees. I can't take them all the way home. I know we've made a huge effort with our air force. I also know that this commitment has brought refugees back or made it safe in Tikrit, near Mosul and in other cities that have been liberated in Iraq. However, I am not aware that Dutch bombs have caused the flow of refugees. If he's making that claim here, he should be able to prove it. Then I'd like data. I would like to hear on what dates that happened and what the commitment can be attributed to the Netherlands. Because I don't know them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u40	We are talking about the situation in Syria. When we look at the Airwar report, we see that the Netherlands is one of the countries that gives the least transparency about what its commitment is at the moment. That's a sad situation, isn't it? So I do not know any claims that point to the opposite. We have opposed the efforts of the Netherlands in Syria from the very beginning, because we are not convinced that we can thus contribute to peace, security and stability for those people. It is not excluded that our bombs also cause civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u41	I don't accept that. Mr Kuzu has just made the claim that Dutch bombs that have been dropped by Dutch pilots and which are behind Dutch decision-making have caused refugee flows. He is now making this even more precise by saying that this would have happened in Syria. By the way, we have hardly thrown bombs off there, but that aside. Mr Kuzu must then come here today, just to stay in defence terms, to mention names and numbers. Then I want to know what he's talking about. This is not the kind of claim you make in a parliament. You do not do this about Dutch soldiers who stand for our safety and for the safety of, in this case, millions of Muslims, for example in Iraq, who depend on the military's commitment to their safety. The latter is provable. What Mr Kuzu is saying here today, I cannot see anything based on anything. If he can, he'll have to come up with that now or he'll have to take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u42	It is not excluded that our bombs, the Dutch bombs, also cause civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u43	That's not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u44	That's enough. If we can't say that our bombs aren't being targeted at civilians, too, I'm not saying that that's happening consciously, let's be clear about that. We can't argue that our bombs are causing civilian casualties and that certain citizens living in that region have to flee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u45	Mr Kuzu, not a year has actually gone by since the Cold War that Dutch pilots, the Dutch military force and the Dutch air force in particular, have not been deployed anywhere in the world to save people, to save civilians, to prevent refugee flows or to ensure that if those refugee flows had already started, people could find a safe return. You would do well, even if you did not support the operation that the Netherlands is doing, to get to know the facts here and then to compliment the Dutch pilots for their efforts, which stands starkly off against what many Arab countries are putting on the mat. That would be a credit to you, rather than letting the suggestion hang in the air that our bombs have caused the flow of refugees. Shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u46	It is not excluded, I repeat, that our bombs can also cause civilian casualties. I see an Airwar report which makes it clear that the Netherlands is one of the countries that is least transparent about their commitment at the moment. There should be more openness about that. This should be clarified in order to overcome these kinds of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u47	I think we all share the horror of what happened in this Chamber. I call the civilian victims, the peaceful citizens who have nothing to do with the struggle and who are the victims of horrific scenes on both sides. But when I listen to Mr Kuzu's story, he is not quite ready, I think, but I almost hear a lot about all kinds of causes that would lie here in the West, but nothing at all about the real causes why the Arab Spring failed. Indeed, radical jihadist forces have prevailed in that Arab world. They have tried horribly to kill anyone who thinks otherwise, who doesn't believe, to kill. This is an important debate. It would be a credit to Mr Kuzu if he at least appointed that main element and acknowledged that this was one of the major problems that led to this conflict getting so out of hand. That is not, as Mr Sjoerdsma rightly said, because this Chamber has acted too early or too late. We have to know our place in the Netherlands, but because people in that region have done horrific things. I should like to hear a reflection from Mr Kuzu on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u48	Yes, that's one of the main causes that makes Syria the fireplace it is today. Daesh did indeed have a very wrong and perverse role in that. I am not saying it to be relative, let us be clear about this, but it is not the only party involved in the violence that is currently taking place in Syria. Mr Knops knows that very well. In this sense, it would be very good if regional and global powers were to step over their own shadow and once more effectively reflect on what is needed in the long term or in the medium term, preferably in the shortest possible time, to ensure that there are no more deaths and no more people fleeing. That would be important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u49	It is very good that Mr Kuzu acknowledges that. It would have been good if he had also appointed that in his first term. Then I wouldn't have to do this interruption. I think we are on the same side of the struggle, namely to try to resolve it as peacefully as possible. I would like to join Mr Ten Broeke in saying that I am sorry that Mr Kuzu has been sidelined, namely that there may have been civilian casualties in every effort that is referred to as a possibility and that the hundreds of thousands of people who have been murdered, who have been slaughtered by IS, are not mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u50	Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I would therefore also like to thank Mr Knops for this interruption and the extra time he has given me to emphasise this point once again: that is indeed one of the main causes. There are also other important main causes to be identified. Think of the bombs that fall daily and that we have seen in recent times fall on Aleppo and in Syria in general in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u51	I am very sorry that Mr Kuzu is making very serious accusations in this Chamber without being able to prove them, but Mr Ten Broeke has tried to rectify them exhaustively. I'm afraid that didn't work out. I won't repeat that. That only leads to spruce. I would like to appeal to Mr Kuzu about what his party puts on Facebook about Aleppo, namely that it is deafeningly silent, that no one in this country is hearing from him and that only the DENK party is concerned with the suffering of those who see themselves caught in the hell of Aleppo. I think everyone in this Chamber cares about that pain, whether they're in box K or on this side of the microphone. But more importantly, Mr Kuzu claims the exclusive right to sympathy and pity. I would like to ask him: what is his solution? One of the causes of this great misery alongside Assad is Putin, Russia. If there are proposals to force Russia, by means of sanctions, to stop this misery, to stop these war crimes, to stop the misery Mr Kuzu is so worried about, then he does not give home, then he does not support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u52	Two things: I do not demand the exclusive right to empathy for what happens on it. That is why we are holding this debate in Parliament, in which I have heard all the spokesmen speak of the various political parties, who have expressed their concerns and expressed their sympathy. I am grateful to D66 for that, but also to all the other political parties who are doing so here in this Chamber tonight or who have done so in all other possible ways. I understand that Mr Sjoerdsma has high expectations of the DENK political party, part of which is also justified, but something that the international community has not been able to resolve in the past five or six years is not going to solve either. That's one. Two: the role of Russia is important. But we are not convinced that by keeping Russia out of the door and threatening to impose sanctions on Russia, we are slightly improving the civilian population of Syria and the hopeless situation over the last five years. We are not convinced of that. I think that has also been shown very clearly in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u53	I welcome one element of Mr Kuzu's reply, namely that he no longer claims that exclusive right. I would like to say to Mr Kuzu: adjust those messages on Facebook; show that that feeling is widely shared in this Chamber and not just limited to your party. It just doesn't suit him. Let me just say that if Mr Kuzu is not in this Chamber to solve difficult problems or to give his opinion on potential solutions to complex issues, he is only here to have no opinion when it becomes complicated for him, as with Turkey or other matters, it becomes difficult. He has nothing to support his analysis of Russia, because the sanctions we have imposed as a result of the situation in eastern Ukraine have worked well. What arguments does he have when he says that it won't work? Otherwise, it's just crocodile tears.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u54	I would be surprised if Turkey were not included in a parliamentary debate. It's unbelievable that that happens again, and that by a party like D66. Anyway, that's on D66. I think Mr Van Bommel has something to say. Mr. Van Bommel, come in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u55	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u56	The second point is the role of Russia. We've seen what the last five years have brought. We have seen that power language towards Putin only causes us to escalate further. If we allow things to escalate further, it will have consequences for the Syrian civilian population, for the number of civilian casualties and for those who currently have to leave everything to ensure that they are facing a safe future. Surely Mr Sjoerdsma can't deny that? In this sense, the sanctions against Russia advocated by D66 do not provide a solution and a solution for the civilian population in Syria. They do not contribute to a constructive solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u57	Mr Sjoerdsma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u58	It is, of course, a great mistake for me to admit it immediately to mention Turkey in a debate on Syria, the country which not only plays an eminent role in the peace talks, but also has a rather prominent military role. I apologise to Mr Kuzu for that, but this seems to me to be relevant. Turkey's role in this conflict is relevant. But I'm gonna bounce the ball back. If my solution does not suit Mr Kuzu and he who does not like... I have only heard an analysis from him so far. All I've heard is how sorry he is. That's what we think. But what's he proposing? What is he really trying to do, besides monopolize this misery?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u59	I think I have said the necessary thing about monopolizing. The most important thing to be done is for a joint solution to be reached, whereby all the parties concerned, namely Russia, Assad, Turkey, the Netherlands, other countries and the United Nations, step over their own shadow and once again bear in mind the importance of the civilian population and the long-term importance of peace and security. That's not happening right now. Finally, I want to give people a heartfelt voice by speaking three sentences in their own language: Nahnu maakom, fi nidaalikom lil hurriyya, wal adaalah, wal aman. Lan nansakom, antom filqalb. Alamukum; alamuna, wa huznukom huznuna. Tahiyya li Haleb, tahiyya li Sourya. Wa aqool lil Souriyyeen fi hollanda; ahlan wa sahlan bikom fi Hollanda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u60	Mr Kuzu, nobody understands. I do, but it doesn't matter. Perhaps it would be good if colleagues knew exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u61	Yes. We are with you in the fight for freedom, justice and security. We haven't forgotten you. You have a place in our hearts. Your pain is our pain. Your grief is our grief. Your tears are our tears. I say to the Syrians in the Netherlands: welcome to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u62	Mr. Chairman. The war in Syria has changed dramatically: East Aleppo has fallen into the hands of Assad's regime. After years of siege, the rebels have been defeated. It has been said before: they are apocalyptic images of a city in ruins, of people fleeing and of much misery and suffering. Our group naturally shares the horror of the brutal bombardment by Assad and Russia on the civilian population with barrel bombs and vacuum bombs. Hospitals and auxiliary convoys have been attacked. The numerous images of the brutality of the war, many innocent civilians of which are victims, burn on your retina. The Minister already acknowledged that he slept badly from all these horrors and from the powerlessness of the West, that he had to watch what happened. In any case, I would like to thank both rulers for their efforts, for what they have tried to do. The result is always difficult to assess, but it has not been on the stakes. I believe that this also gives rise to frustration: the will to do something and very often cannot do anything. The head of MI6 warns of a higher threat of terrorism, including in Europe, as a result of the brutal violence of the Russians. Does the government share this analysis? In this region we also have Iran, Hezbollah and the Shiite militias. There are estimates that Iran would be active in Syria with some 70,000 soldiers and militia members. Can the Minister give an estimate of this? Can he also comment on Iran's aggressive attitude and expansionism in the region? It's very disturbing. The risk of further escalation with Sunni countries in the region is high. These are countries which, in turn, often support the jihadists. Another risk is that these jihadists leave for Europe, and then attack here. The feeling of impotence over Syria is very great. The Security Council is paralyzed by Russia. Russia, Iran and Turkey are now negotiating the future of Syria and seemingly putting the West out of play. A western military intervention against Assad had made the crisis even worse, at least the humanitarian crisis, as NATO's sg rightly pointed out in an interview last week. However, some Western countries have supported the rebels in order to achieve regime change. After Iraq and Libya, the CDA does not believe in a violent regime change in the Middle East. The chaos is only getting bigger. The radical Islam is thriving. Let us be honest: how many moderate, really moderate rebels are left in Syria? Most rebels are radical, salafistic and jihadistic. The Syrian war is too complex for one-sided imaging. In Aleppo there were thousands of jihadists, including many foreigners and many of Al Qaeda. These jihadists also terrorized the civilian population. They put the sharia on. They're hostile to the West. They pose an existential threat to the Christians. Of the 1 million Christians who lived in Aleppo, there would be only 30,000 left. At least 20 churches were destroyed by jihadists. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. The letter he sent to the Chamber doesn't say anything about this. Maybe he can respond to it now. Is it true that the jihadists have threatened and shot civilians who tried to flee the city? They would've even shot at buses. Can the Minister comment on this? Fortunately, there is a UN resolution which allows the use of observers. The Netherlands is one of the largest donors in Syria. That has been discussed before. What can and will the government do to help the people in need? Is the Cabinet prepared to consider a greater contribution to the Red Cross? This is one of the few NGOs that provides assistance in Syria and, despite the many obstacles, is able to access the needy. Our group is in favour of an independent investigation into violations of humanitarian war law and referral to the International Criminal Court. Despite the horrors and perhaps the cynicism that exists, we must continue to work tirelessly on the path of the political solution and international humanitarian law. Finally, the war is not over either. ISIS opened a new offensive and walked under Palmyra's foot. How is it possible that the anti-ISIS coalition didn't see such a big attack coming? In particular, let us continue to fight ISIS vigorously. Let us also continue to appeal to NATO ally Turkey to what it does and above all to what it has not done. This point has also been raised before. Erdogan has invaded Syria and bombs the Syrian Kurds, even at Kobani. This must be condemned, however difficult it may be. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u63	Mr. Chairman. "The collapse of humanity" is called it. Citizens are constantly starved and bombarded with weapons. Respect for the law of war or any law has vanished. The cities have been bombed to ruin...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u64	I have to interrupt you. Mr Kuzu, when the sitting is open, there can be no staff in the Chamber. It's for MPs only. Proceed, Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u65	The cities have been bombed to ruin and millions of people are on the run. We have been able to track the despair of the inhabitants through tweets and images on the Internet. The 7-year-old girl Bana Alabed and her mother tweeted from Aleppo. They often doubted whether they would live long and begged the international community to help. The international community condemns what is happening, but has not been able to stop the unrelenting violence of Assad and his cynical allies. We're in power next to each other. The situation in Aleppo is terrible. How many people are still staying here? How's the forced evacuation program going? Where do these people end up and are they safe from the government army, Iranian militias and Russian bombings? The misery also continues in other cities. The Minister warns that Idlib could be the next target, but we also hear that other places are collapsing, starved and terrorized by bombing, almost always due to the regime and its allies. 1.3 million people would live in these and other besieged places. What can we do for these people? I thank the ministers for looking for unorthodox ways of providing humanitarian aid. The help we provide must not be a trump card that we hand over to Assad. The United Nations does not play the role of referee that we expect of them, because they are too dependent on the regime. And the United Nations should not only be more committed to helping all inhabitants; they should also monitor local truces and agreements. Assad and his allies are notoriously unreliable in meeting agreements, including at local level. However, the power base of many important resistance movements has now disappeared or weakened. Does the Sunni majority in Syria still have a democratic party or group to support? Or is it further driven into the arms of radical groups? How will the people of Raqqa and Mosul take the treatment of the people of Aleppo? How are we ever going to win hearts and minds from Sunni residents who are in the tribulation between Iran and the Mediterranean? And how effective is the fight that the Netherlands is fighting with its allies in Syria against Islamic State against the background of the equally cruel violence of Assad? The crimes of Aleppo must not be forgotten. The criminals must not go unpunished. I therefore wholeheartedly support the government's commitment to establishing an evidence collection mechanism. There is still a blow to the arm in the wording, but I want the government to take this decisively. The tweeting girl of Aleppo, Bana Alabed, is now embraced by Erdogan. I do not appreciate Erdogan's methods at all, but his country is home to 2 million Syrian refugees and is also catching new refugees from Aleppo. What can the Netherlands do to support the evacuation? Can we take over sick people, elderly or small children? Are we brave enough to offer them a helping hand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u66	I hesitated a little bit, but when it came to the fight against ISIS, I thought I needed to come forward. I know that Mrs Voortman's party is against this mission, and against the Dutch participation in the fight against IS in Syria. But can I ask her who would be fighting ISIS right now if countries like the Netherlands wouldn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u67	The reason why we do not support this is not that we would be in favour of IS, absolutely not. That's because we think you should have an alternative. You should know that there is then a strong alternative to Assad's regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u68	I'd like a real answer anyway. At the moment, Russia is not fighting IS. Right now, Assad isn't fighting IS. At the moment there is only one party that stops and fights ISIS militaryly and that is the coalition of which the Netherlands is part. If Mrs Voortman is indeed so sympathetic to these inhabitants of Syria, I would like to ask her: that is almost the same question as the question I asked Mr Kuzu: who, in her view, should protect these residents from the horrors of IS?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u69	I have specifically said that we say that this way of combating IS is not effective. Mr Sjoerdsma can say: we are fighting IS. But is that coalition effective? We don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u70	I'm really sorry, Madam President, but I'm gonna try again. I will try to formulate my question in a different way. Mrs. Voortman says it's not effective. I then look at the area loss of IS and see that this is effective. I look at the dramatically decreasing number of cities under IS control and see that it is effective, despite the setback at Palmyra. Mrs Voortman says this is not effective. I say it is effective, and I think it is proven to be effective. I think the Minister will repeat that in a moment. Then may I ask Mrs Voortman what her alternative method is? What is Mrs Voortman's alternative to getting IS under? So what is she proposing now? Because there's nothing but that alliance. I admit it's not the very best formula ever. It's not the most pleasant solution ever. It will not be 100% effective and efficient. But what is Mrs Voortman's alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u71	I wish I had that alternative. I didn't. I didn't. I am as powerless here as Mr Sjoerdsma. But I am not going to pretend that the solution proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma is a solution. That's exactly where the difference is. But indeed, I have no alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u72	Mr. Chairman. "A complete meltdown of humanity"; this quote from the UN has been spoken a few times this evening. In the search for words for something that is not really spoken for, I think that this quote best reflects what is happening in Syria at the moment. And then you stand there on Wednesday evening in a debate room in the Netherlands and you feel extremely powerless. I think we all have that today. However, I would like to thank the two ministers for what they are trying to do year in and year out to find a solution to the situation in Syria. They provide at least humanitarian aid in the country or just outside. In an interrupting debate, we looked back briefly at a number of moments in time. I do think it is relevant that this debate was originally requested in February of this year, because that was the time when history took a definitive turn. We asked for that debate at the time because we knew that the fall of Aleppo would be inevitable if we did nothing then. And that is the way it is, and that is not satisfactory, but rather sadness. The international community, the European Union, the West and the United Nations have not been able to respond all this time, in those ten months after February. As far as my party, the Labour Party, is concerned, we should have taken tougher measures and we should have threatened to impose sanctions on the countries responsible for what has happened now. But we have to look ahead, because that is the only thing that will help us today. The cabinet rightly writes in the letter that we must prevent the heartbreaking images from Aleppo from repeating themselves in Idlib and other Syrian cities. The question we all have to ask ourselves is: how? How can we prevent that? In any case, let me say that I am pleased that this misunderstanding has been removed, and I think that we should continue to examine every hole, every possibility that exists. In fact, I would like to ask Minister Koenders to comment on some of them. Firstly, at least the UN Security Council has now agreed to send observers to Aleppo. The UN resolution also deals with so-called security arrangements for those observers. That seems to me to be an important aspect, but this also raises many questions. How can UN observers safely do their job in a city where so many destructive forces are at work? Secondly, I would like to mention the United Nations General Assembly, which, if the UN Security Council is blocked, has the opportunity to take action itself. What is the situation with Canada's initiative there and what chance does the Minister see of reaching agreements through the UNGA on accountability and the prevention of impunity? Thirdly, the European Union. We were more in favour of sanctions. We also see now that humanitarian needs are a priority. Is the Minister prepared to continue the discussion at EU level on how future abuses can be prevented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u73	I would like to do that exercise of these sanctions with Mr Servaes. We all see reason enough to impose sanctions. No one has a different feeling about that. The problem is, who are you gonna meet with these sanctions? You're sure you need permission from the Russians and from the Syrian regime for any kind of humanitarian access over the last few weeks in Aleppo and perhaps later in Idlib? That is exactly the dilemma I was referring to in my contribution. You can ask for sanctions, but who do we want to meet? Does Mr Servaes want to hit Russia? Then he must also take responsibility for the fact that this may result in us shutting down all the doors in order to allow another humanitarian transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u74	For the sake of clarity, I have already said that I understand very well that at the moment humanitarian access, addressing humanitarian needs, perhaps sending observers, is a priority. So this is not the time to propose sanctions. I just said it. I agree with Ten Broeke. But if we have learned anything in recent years, it is that Putin's Russia will only change behaviour if we are prepared to put this type of measure on the table. That's what Ukraine taught us. That is what the Minsk agreements have taught us. When we didn't do anything, Crimea was annexed. When we did do something, a conversation started and an agreement was agreed. We could have done the same in Syria. Looking back makes relatively little sense, but that's what I'm talking about: forcing a change of behavior. At the moment, humanitarian emergency is a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u75	I do not agree with Mr Servaes. In terms of sanctions, it is not only the reason why you impose them, but also the opportunity when you do so, preferably in such a way that you do not stumble even before you have taken the first hurdle. This means, for example, organising European unity. Otherwise Putin will laugh at you, simply because you suggested it. Mr Servaes mentioned the moment of almost a year ago when we asked for this debate. That was the moment when we had to talk about the conflict. Then we stood here talking about the Dutch commitment, the deployment of Western troops that have fought against ISIS. There had to be a conflict with the Russians. Sanctions would have had a counterproductive effect even then. For example, they would have had a counter-effect on the military commitment made by the alliance at the time and, in my view, they would have done nothing for humanitarian access. After all, we saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u76	This is just a difference of opinion. This was also the case at the time after the annexation of Crimea. At that time, Ten Broeke also felt that sanctions were not necessary. He did not join the choir until later, in fact, after the European agreement had already been reached. I think I'm in politics chasing discussions. Of course, you must then seek European unity. We agree on this, but we have a different view of sanctions. We're not gonna figure that out today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u77	A correction on Crimea. That is not what the debate is about, but my group was in favour of sanctions, but not as fast as Mr Servaes, who sometimes tends to call for sanctions if he is sure that there is no unity about it yet. We are in favour of sanctions and we, as the Netherlands, were certainly not the last country to do so. We were in the middle of nowhere. You have to sit somewhere to make those sanctions effective. I have often argued here that sanctions, if you use them smartly and especially at the right moments, can have an effect. But if you ask for it every week, like the D66 and the Labour Party... well, not every week, but let's say they ask for it every quarter. You're gonna run the sanction weapon right here alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u78	When you scream "hup who wins," you always win. That's some bullshit. If you want to get something done in politics, you have to take the lead, find allies and forge European unity. Once that European unity is there and you say "I'm for it too," you're always right. That's very nice. Finally, humanitarian aid, which is now the first priority. I ask the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation whether the organisations that are now operating in Syria and beyond are equipped for the reception of the additional refugee flows that we are seeing today from Aleppo and which may also be expected from Idlib and other regions. In particular, I ask her whether the Red Cross Organization, which seems to be the only one left with access to the area, is sufficiently prepared for the additional responsibility that lies there. I understand that the Red Cross needs no less than 225 million for the programme in Syria by 2017. Is the Minister prepared to consider how she can support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u79	I think this is a good point. We also received the letter from the Red Cross and heard the Minister's replies, through the Minister of Finance, on the Navy note. We have tabled amendments to the budget, which have not so far been supported by the Labour Party. If the Labour Party really wants to give the Red Cross more finances, why does the Labour Party not support such motions and opposition amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u80	I do not feel that we should re-examine the budget debate or re-examine the debate as to whether you need to settle something directly or by spring or autumn notes. I ask the Minister if she sees opportunities to discuss this need with the Red Cross before 2017. I'm really waiting for her answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u81	We support that request, of course. However, the Minister said earlier that we had to borrow money for the first-year reception from the budget of the years to 2021. She will now say that the pot is empty, that she has had to close the holes, also at the request of the Minister of Finance, and that the Chamber must say so. The Chamber has indicated resources for this and the Labour Party does not support this. If the Labour Party really does mean this, why not support it? I think we have another vote on Thursday on a number of subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u82	I am not going to take part in this debate. I followed the debate during the debate on the budget for external trade and development cooperation, and I know that the spokesman for the Labour Party made a request to the Minister at that time. The Minister has said that she will work on this. I do not need to play games through motions and amendments. We know very well what is needed, the Minister knows very well what the Labour Party thinks about it and I will give her the opportunity to give it some thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u83	I object to the accusation that I would play games with refugees. I'm throwing that far from me. We're serious about this. We have been visiting refugees, colleagues, and we are working together to see what we can do with the existing resources. I really blame Mr Servaes for playing games.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u84	I take that word back. Mr Voordewind is right about that. However, my view that we should do it by means of agreements we have made with the Minister remains valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u85	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u86	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for the first-term questions and comments. I also appreciate that we're talking about this tonight. It is perhaps the most important crisis we are facing in the world at the moment. We have discussed it repeatedly in the Chamber and it is certainly not the first time we have discussed it. We have debated on several occasions the strategy for Syria and the need to establish coherence in the ongoing fight against ISIS........................................................................................................................................................................ I think that everyone in the debates of recent weeks has often expressed this with horror and has followed with horror the messages that reach us from Aleppo. The United Nations has indeed rightly referred to the situation as a collapse of humanity. But the United Nations is all of us: there is no such thing as an international community or New York or Brussels or Moscow. We are dealing with a Security Council which is unable to reach agreement and which has not experienced such a situation in the past ten or fifteen years: a lack of protection of the civilian population and the use of civilian targets as apparent legitimate objectives of warfare. I am thinking, for example, of shooting at hospitals. There's some sort of total warfare in a city. That is what we have seen in the past period. Everyone is quite right to be very concerned about this and is being talked about in words such as Guernica, Leningrad, Grozny, Sarajevo, Aleppo and indeed Srebrenica. These are examples of total warfare in cities. That is also what I wanted to write when I wrote a piece in The Independent and called my colleagues in Europe on 1 August. I think that at the time of the deadline on 1 August a plan B was not acted on. This applies to the United States, but also to Europe. The Dutch Government has tried on many fronts, not so much from either morality or power politics but from both, to make sense of how this conflict should be dealt with. Everywhere in the Netherlands people are sympathized with Aleppo and Syria. This is evident from the many meetings in Amsterdam, in Eindhoven and at the war monument in Kampen. I find that heart-warming, because it is precisely in these dark days that we need these signs of compassion. I will not repeat tonight the whole discussion we have had with the Chamber before. Instead, I will deal with a number of recent developments. We now see total warfare taking place and the United Nations is not at stake. In fact, the problem of a proxy war is being implemented in the fall of Aleppo with new negotiations between the Russian Federation, Turkey and Iran. All we can do now is see if the strategy needs to be reviewed. If so, what does that mean in practice and what action will we have to take to improve people and improve the future of Syria and the region in this terrible situation? So I am not going to discuss tonight the analyses that have to do with the major changes in Syria. We know that there has been a rebellion against Assad. We know that brute was knocked down. We know that this has then led to a huge proxy war, that Syria is being slowly but surely destroyed and that there are so many players that it is for a country like the Netherlands let us be honest about it and for the so-called West it is not possible to come up with the solution of the West or the international community. I think Mr Knops was right to point that out earlier. Does that mean we don't have any power and we can't do anything? No, that's not the case. I would therefore like to address some of the questions as specifically as possible. How do I look at the UN Security Council resolution proposed by the French? First of all, I'm not happy with the evacuations. Evacuations are always a second or third best, so to speak. It is not good that people leave more or less forced home and fireplace, also for fear of what would happen if they did stay. Anyway, the situation in East Aleppo is as it is. The members themselves have carried out a number of analyses. It is now very important that the people have access to the humanitarian aid that is so much needed in security. That's the first humanitarian imperative. I have not yet said anything about strategy, about power politics and what we should do. This is a prerequisite. After the evacuations threatened to crash this weekend, the UN monitoring is at least something. The people who want to leave Aleppo now deserve at least a safe exit. It is therefore an important signal that the French resolution has been adopted. I myself have spoken very carefully about this with the French Foreign Minister in recent weeks. It is precisely France that has been the country that has perhaps always tried to show leadership. That is what it did when it came to observers, when it came to the cease-fire, when it came to humanitarian aid and when it came to actually expressing itself strongly against the Russian Federation, which is not always happening on the French side, so to speak. France has shown that leadership, where I had hoped that Europe would do so a little more broadly. Mr Ten Broeke is right that it was much more difficult to take a position with 28 countries. Power politics and what you want to achieve always go together. That is why it is so important that we also invest in European peace and security and defence. However, the implementation of the resolution stands or falls in the cooperation of the regime; it is no different. There are UN personnel on the ground, but the UN indicates that it is still difficult to access areas recently recaptured by the regime. Nevertheless, the first observers have arrived. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation will also say something about this. In the meantime a reasonable number has arrived, I thought, both in East and West Aleppo; precise numbers will get the Chamber this way. I think it is good that this has happened, because there was some sort of fear that people would not even get access. This is a resolution that has now been accepted by all. The observers are also on the spot. At the same time, the United Nations does not require additional people or resources to carry out the monitoring. The regime has now approved the move of UN staff from Damascus to Aleppo. There is still talk about the possibility of further strengthening the UN staff from West to East Aleppo. Shiftwork is being deployed. We are, of course, a little more remote in all of this organisation, but we are very actively contributing to the further development of this process. I come to a second point which does not yet have to do with power politics or change, but which I think is extremely important. When impunity increases, it is the only way to ensure that there is an evidence mechanism for the whole issue of accountability. That makes it possible to ensure that those responsible for this total warfare are also punished at some point. The meaning of Aleppo is greater than Syria alone. The events in Syria and Aleppo, at the low point where we have reached, raise important questions about the protection of citizens. It is also a Dutch initiative to work on a central evidence collection mechanism. With this mechanism we want to enable the investigation and prosecution of the perpetrators of the serious human rights violations and violations of humanitarian war law in Syria. The mechanism should centrally collect the many evidence of serious human rights violations and other crimes. There's a lot of evidence, but that's shredded. We are now going to work on an evidence bank, as it is called. Tonight, the United Nations General Assembly is voting on a resolution tabled by Lichtenstein, but with the support of a large number of countries, especially the Netherlands, which should enable the establishment of such a mechanism of evidence. The Dutch diplomats in New York and in the capitals of major partners lobbied hard for that. I think it's gonna be there tonight. We will also support this directly, and we will make an extra 1 million available to get the evidence bank off the ground quickly and quickly if that resolution is adopted this evening. From the latest reports I have received, I understand that the chances are very high. That means we can get to work right away. We are therefore making an additional 1 million available from the Human Rights Fund. It's important to do that. Of course, this does not mean that people have been tried, but it is important to document this directly and to ensure that people do not remain unpunished. In addition, we have made all kinds of other proposals, including a reference through the UN Security Council, blocked by the Russian Federation. The resolution through the General Assembly is also something that the Netherlands and Canada are trying hard at the moment. On a number of other fronts, we are also working on monitoring and helping the people who are being evacuated because of the deal that has been made between Russia, Turkey and Iran, through the channel that is currently ineffective in stopping the violence. The conversation we are having is also about where these people are going. The Chamber asked for that. I'm not going into that any further. I assume that the Minister of BuHa-OS will explain this further, or will give further explanations for it. Perhaps it is important to discuss the strategic situation in the country. In my opinion, the Dutch Government's letter rightly states that the conflict has not ended. You could say in a certain analysis that there are so many horrors that at some point it is better to overcome one party. In any case, violence could stop and a more stable situation could arise. I have no illusion that this will happen. Unfortunately, I'd like to say, but not because I'd be so happy if one side wins. This is certainly not the case if it is the side that has led to an uprising, extremism and huge refugee flows towards Europe. In practice, it appears that this is not going to work. People are being evacuated, partly to Idlib. I assume that the pressure in Idlib will be increased between different opposition groups. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr De Roon. There is a difference between the groups. The opposition has grown against the dictator Assad. One example is the Free Syrian Army. I believe that a number of organisations have not received sufficient support from the international community. That was not the case with the Netherlands. We have supported the Free Syrian Army, the police, stability, etc. in many ways. Unfortunately, the programme on support for the Free Syrian Army was not really pursued by the United States at the time. Then there was the big dilemma that many organisations to protect themselves naturally also started to display themselves with a number of more extremist groups. That is the crux of the problem. I am therefore afraid that these various groups in Idlib will meet and have to fight that problem there. Let me be very clear: this does not mean that the situation in Syria is destabilising. The terrible phrase "the necessary Syria" is used in international newspaper articles. Of course, it has to do with the fact that the big cities are in fact now in the hands of the Assad regime. That is, of course, a psychological victory for that regime. I can't look in a glass ball. If you have to create a scenario to set your policy for the future, it will usually be based on an Iraq-like situation with many uprisings and guerrillas within the necessary Syria. Someone mentioned Palmyra today. You can see that the Russians and the Syrian regime are not interested in fighting ISIS at all. That's not their enemy at all. That's why they let Palmyra walk the moment they were in Aleppo trying to slaughter civilians. That is the reality of the situation. That is why I say to Mr Ten Broeke that the fight against ISIS is incredibly important, but that in its effectiveness you cannot separate it from that other track. That's what we've always said. That is why the two UN resolutions were always linked. I do not think you will get a stable situation and will not defeat ISIS or its functional equivalent, which may appear anywhere, permanently, because there is in fact no preparation for a political solution to the problem. It'll come back another way. This means we have to keep going. So does the Dutch government, and so does the coalition. I've seen that again in the last few days. In any case, this applies to Iraq, but also to Syria in the fight against ISIS. That is why the battle in Raqqa is so important, as is the way Turkey and other countries now deal with the future of Raqqa. That will be the point. It's not just about defeating the people in Raqqa because ISIS is there, but to see immediately what happens next. Hence the negotiations that are taking place on how Raqqa can have a future. They are also taking place with the United States in this case. That's the discussion about the PYD. I've been there with Mr Voordewind. There are both Kurds and Arab tribes who must fight this battle. It is absolutely important that the Arab groups in particular should be stronger there, as Raqqa can then be stabilised. That's the kind of thing the Netherlands is doing. We are important, but we have to be in perspective. The core of the fight against ISIS is in the fight for another Syria. That must remain above the market. We can't give that up. Lessons learned should not be interpreted in such a way that the objective we had would be wrong, namely the pursuit of stability and the reduction of migration from Syria. That is why it is important to face up to reality. I think the analyses are correct: the Assad regime, together with its pillars, will be stronger in negotiations with Iran and the Russian Federation. Of course there will be negotiations; let there be no misunderstanding about that. The Syrian army, even with the support of the Russian Federation, will not be able to control or stabilise Syria as a whole. One will also look at others. There is also a balance of power between us. Whatever happens after a partial victory of the Assad regime, I will also say to Mr De Roon, the Dutch Government's position on stabilisation in Syria with regard to humanitarian aspects, and such will always have to be conditional on a political solution. European funds cannot be used to help Russians and Iranians stabilise a country in a way that will not be stable anyway. I am concerned about the role of Iran and the Russian Federation. I will come back to the role of Turkey, which is widely discussed, but the core problem is currently being raised by Iran and the Russian Federation. The core problem is an enormous increase in the power of Shiite militias. Mr Knops was right to talk about this. I've seen that in Iraq over the last few days. Of course, there is a lot to be said about Turkey. That happens quite often in this Chamber, and I understand that, but Turkey has just helped with a major evacuation of refugees. Ambulances have been sent and people have been evacuated. Of course, this deal has to do with a second best, but Turkey is the country that is nearby and that has to absorb the largest migratory flows. We can criticise the way in which that is going and perhaps the Turkish position with regard to the Kurds, but when you see that Iran exerts so much influence in a neighbouring country, you also, of course, think about your legitimate security needs. So I would like to put this a little less in terms of good or evil, 'we need to tackle this country and tackle it'. You have to, but this is a proxy war. The human dramas that are taking place there have to do with the fact that everyone continues to finance their own side. We can then impose sanctions on everyone, but I'm giving the Chamber a note that it's not gonna be that. This is really about looking at what is happening now, with a stronger role for the Russian Federation. There are negotiations now, together with Turkey and Iran. A number of elements of our previous strategy remain important in this respect. There can be no separate peace there, but the situation on the ground requires that these three countries speak with each other. I do not think that is a bad thing either, but it depends on what that means for the refugees and for stability. There is indeed yet another role for the United Nations. Why is a resolution for UN monitors being proposed? Because everyone knows that it is not objective and verifiable if you leave it to the warring parties on the ground, to the regime, to the Shiite militias or to whoever it is. I think it is important to have noticed that here. We're in the support group for Syria. I see the importance of getting that ministry back together, but not now. I'm not gonna organize things that don't make sense. The important thing now is that there will be agreements between these three countries, including through political pressure and through all the possibilities we have. Those countries don't have all the power at once either. Look at Turkey's vulnerability. Look also at the risks for Russia to take over the whole country. Otherwise, as Mr Ten Broeke said, I believe: oh, you owned a country! There is still a whole game to play, but let there be no misunderstanding that the situation is dramatic. That is why the Dutch Government is now mainly working on humanitarian and political stability and on what needs to be done first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u87	I thank the Minister for his statement. He makes it very clear how complex the situation is there. Let me ask you a question about Turkey. There are currently four countries involved in these negotiations, one of which is an ally of the Netherlands, of the West. Let me move on to all those things that concern Turkey that I and some others are so critical about, and look to the future. Does the Minister see a particular role for Turkey, as an ally of the Netherlands, in the negotiations and the talks that are still going on, to lift the conflict and the situation there to the level where they actually belong, namely the institutions that we have devised for that purpose, the UN Security Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u88	Yes, that is why we are sometimes in a different position. This afternoon we had a debate in the Chamber on calling on the Turkish Ambassador and on human rights violations. Despite all the criticism I have of Turkey, it remains essential to keep in touch with Turkey. But Mr Knops has a point. It was the Netherlands that said in NATO: we want to know what you are doing there. That is a very fair question. On a number of points, we are indeed working together with Turkey. I have previously crossed swords with Mr Knops about Turkey's support for ISIS. We have discussed this for a long time, but it is undeniable that Turkey, through its support for the FSA but also in a number of coalitions with the Americans, is now working on the fight against ISIS. That is essential now. Of course Turkey also has another agenda, let there be no misunderstanding about it, and it should not dominate, namely to fight our coalition partners even harder than ISIS itself in that fight against ISIS. However, I would point out that the vulnerability of Turkey, which I now see, perhaps by its own fault, is a risk to the alliance. That is why it is so important that this strategic approach should continue to be important, precisely because it goes further in the direction of the institutions that Mr Knops rightly refers to. I don't think that's impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u89	The remarkable thing is that precisely ally Turkey, which we have talked about so much about, was protected from the air of our Patriots and who in the meantime imported oil and handed over weapons or at least closed the eyes to them, is now in a position where it may have the key in its hands. I think you're allowed to appeal to allies on their behalf. This is without prejudice to the fact that Turkey has certain possibilities that we do not currently have. The Minister says: I am going to try to use Turkey's position in this whole game in such a way that we can reverse evil and good and try, as far as possible, to give it a place at UN level. In the end, that is where Turkey has a key and where we do not get that far with the Russians and with Iran, I fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u90	I think Mr Knops is right. We must look closely at the political reality of power. Russia supports the regime and has thus acquired a position at the negotiating table, something that was wanted. The United States is in a position to wait and see what happens to Trump, because it is a transitional period. Europe is not showing enough unity and strength. This has not been up to the Dutch Government, but it is incredibly difficult in a situation of much Euroscepticism and too little attention to European security policy to get that further. Iran, the Russian Federation and Turkey are important players. That doesn't mean they have total power. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. This is a situation that is about cooperation. We see how difficult it is sometimes between Russia and Turkey. One state on Assad's side, the other one is involved in the Sunni majority in Syria. There's still a long way to go. For Aleppo the case is now lost, but with that the game is not over and therefore it is so important to propagate that movement. That is certainly not impossible, but it requires active diplomacy, power politics. It also has to do with how we are going to anticipate this with the new US government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u91	I have another question on the same subject. The interesting thing about the exchange of views between Mr Knops and the Minister is that Mr Knops starts his question by saying: if we step over those objections that the Chamber has been talking about for about 24 hours now when it comes to Turkey, can the Minister still see opportunities to address Turkey, because it is actually our only chip at the table? Of course, that's eating the whole egg. The Minister can't just get over it if he's given orders half the day to talk to Turkey about I don't know what to say. That's what my question is about. If we did, do I hear the Minister say that the reality at the moment is that we also depend on what these three countries are deciding at that table for the elaboration of our own tracks? Is that the reality we're dealing with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u92	Yeah, but that's clear to everyone, I guess. It's what you do with that next. That goes without saying. We have been talking here for months about proxy wars, the relationship between Russia, Iran and Turkey and the question of how, in that power-political constellation, in which a country is slowly but surely being destroyed, one can still try to reach an agreement. Of course, countries can continue to destroy that country. I only think that European interests, apart from humanitarian-moral interests from refugee issues and elsewhere, are disastrous in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u93	I am asking this because with my agreement this week, because of the fall of Aleppo, the Minister has rightly summoned both the Iranian and Russian ambassadors and has made the three most important Dutch demands, in accordance with what the international community is asking for: the ceasefire, corridors and, preferably, monitors. With French help, we did it with those monitors. That's an uplifting sign. That was then the European input. But for all these other questions, we have to play loan neighbor to the three countries that are left. In Moscow's four-page declaration, there is almost everything that the international community has tried to do in recent years with Security Council Resolution 2254. It says literally: no military solution because that cannot be the solution, 2254 is the starting point, we take "good stock" of what the International Syria Support Group is going to do and we want to encourage the rest of the international community to act "in good faith." That's what this is all about. Of these three countries, Turkey is perhaps the closest, ironic enough. Can we be confident that, with our tracks, mainly humanitarian and political when it comes to pressure, we can deal with these three countries in the sea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u94	I don't know if "can go into the sea" is the right word. I note that after the fall of Aleppo, these three countries have a direct interest in stabilising this new strategic situation and sitting together. I have little confidence in the ability of these three countries to create some stability in the long term. In that sense, I cannot play with them a loan neighbor, because they are most hated. The Russian Federation has been hated. It carried out those bombings there and created those streams of refugees. We have seen in Turkey where that has led, namely that someone in a disgusting act of terror is killing the Russian ambassador and legitimizing it with the destruction of Aleppo. We have an interest, if you want a western interest, to stop those murders. This means that we must not be shy about going with countries. Of course they're important. This applies to the Russian Federation, to Turkey and also to Iran. My great concern is at the moment that this is actually going very well for Iran, with all due respect to that country. You can see that Iran, as a regional player, is very active in Iraq and with militias in Aleppo and is therefore also able to put the cease-fire in trouble at some point. I think there was certainly an Iranian co-responsibility in that too. You can see that in the agreement that has been concluded. That is quite right, because here too, not one side is the right one. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. Mr De Roon has rightly made a number of comments on this. Due to the lack of space for the Free Syrian Army and the opposition there was, radicalisation of a number of organisations has taken place. Kerry and Lavrov made an attempt to separate them, so that an agreement could be reached jointly on Aleppo. That didn't work. This means that we have talked about it in the budget, a realpolitik, a political analysis of power at the same time as a stronger position of the European Union and a return to the United Nations is the only solution. That's not a repeat of moves. That's what needs to be done. The cost of that non-action will be very high. What the new government in the United States will do will be very important. However, it also means that European countries should not say in a room one night that they think it is so important and that they find it so horrible what has happened, but that they should also prioritise it in funding, in humanitarian aid and in a real investment in the United Nations, which has not actually happened for years in a serious sense. Those are the assignments. The same applies to relations with the Russian Federation. I shall come back to the sanctions in a moment, because I do not think that is a happy way of improving the situation in the short term. I think everyone agrees on that, too. However, you do not have to rule out anything in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u95	I would like to continue with Mr Ten Broeke's question as to what is the consequence of the talks in Moscow. I just read that a follow-up meeting was agreed in Kazakhstan. So not in Vienna or Geneva, but in Kazakhstan. What does that mean for the role of the UN? What does it mean for the role of the European Union? Should we now conclude that they have been played out? After all, those three are actually going to continue, later in Kazakhstan. I take it the UN has not been invited. Maybe the Minister can say something about that. What are the consequences of this triangulation in Moscow and Kazakhstan, in which we hear nothing more from the UN and the role of De Mistura?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u96	I find that hard to estimate, to be honest. My first comment is that there will be a follow-up meeting, but that does not tell me so much. There are so many follow-up reports. I also come to a lot of discussions and then I find that no result has actually been achieved. I don't know. Any agreement that puts an end to the bloodshed, which can ensure the influx of humanitarian aid and which can bring about a sustainable peace process, I welcome, from any country that comes. Statements and fine words as spoken in Moscow yesterday we have enough. The proof of the pudding is also there in the eating. I haven't seen any of that yet. The Netherlands does not forget that the Russian Federation and Iran themselves bear an important responsibility for the spiral of violence, nor have we forgotten the behaviour of the Russian Federation in the UN Security Council. Turkey, too, Mr Voordewind, has said it himself. That has a strong agenda of its own. Mr Voordewind has spoken to me about this on a number of occasions, which is understandable, for example, with regard to the prevention of that Kurdish zone. So I'm just gonna wait and see. Not in the sense of passivity, but I don't have high expectations of it. We will see whether this results in more than this immediate stabilisation of today and whether that stabilisation actually protects people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u97	When we look at the track record of Russia, Iran and Turkey, we know what the agenda is. We do not have to have high expectations as regards respect for minorities, respect for human rights and the position of women in any future peace talks between these three parties. I think we can agree on that. There is, of course, a deathly silence in Geneva and Vienna, i.e. the European Union and the UN. Are we gonna wait and see? Or does the Minister say that we need to sit down with each other to see if we can intervene in order to create a better perspective for the human rights and the future of the Syrians than if we leave it to the Russians and the Turks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u98	Of course. That's all we do. What are we gonna do? I am only doing that in the ISSG with European allies trying to move forward, from the weekend in Cairo. But I honestly say that this is a certain testimonium paupertis. I've made that fair here before. There are a number of dilemmas that have also been raised here. I do not believe that any group has called for humanitarian intervention there. If that were the case, I'd love to hear it. I understand that, by the way. I would also understand that in view of the scale of the problem, but everyone is nevertheless working very seriously to work out its consequences and its accountability ethics. Where power and violence count, morality disappears. Let there be no misunderstanding; we have seen that. It's not like you're making a nice call. This does not mean, by the way, that this error can be quickly made, that you are suddenly without any perspective of action. We are working on this now, but I admit that I cannot give any guarantees. We are dealing with a total transformation of the Middle East. A huge amount of money and resources are being put into continuing that conflict, in which pressure is indeed needed on the parties. Those are the opposite parties. That is the situation as it is today. I can't change it right now. I refer to the Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands of November 2016 for the question about the risk of returners. The Chamber also discussed this earlier today. There will also be a meeting with Mr Van der Steur on this subject. The terrorist threat in and against the Netherlands is similar to the rest of Europe. Through the involvement of the Netherlands in the anti-ISIS coalition, jihadists see the Netherlands as an enemy of Islam. That's true. Together with V and J, the NCTV and the services we are very alert to that threat. Then I come to the other perspectives of action. I mentioned the element of sanctions. One of the tools that the Netherlands and Europe have to exert pressure is indeed sanctions. Sanctions against the Syrian regime consist of a large package of measures, including financial restrictions, export restrictions and the freezing of funds of a total of 234 persons and 69 entities. The package is kept continuously up-to-date. Last month, in November, 18 new individuals were added to the penalty list. These sanctions are not aimed at the population but at those responsible for the violent repression of the population. I show that I think these sanctions are important, but I do not have the illusion that they will now lead to a change in behaviour that we all want. The role played by Russia and Iran in the Aleppo drama is particularly worrying. We are constantly in consultation with the European Union and other like-minded countries on how to increase the pressure on Assad and his allies. All options for exerting pressure are on the table. So I am not excluding one, but I also hear here in the Chamber that there is currently no shared vision in Europe. The worst part is that you're divisive about this. Then you really show that you don't agree. I see just a few countries that are not going to do that. Furthermore, I do not think that it will help the situation in the short term for the reasons that have been mentioned earlier. That does not mean that I would like to exclude just one option for the future. I come to the end of my answer to the questions. Maybe I can make two more comments. We are working on these Track II initiatives in many areas. Don't forget, they're still very important. There's also something like a Syrian population. There are also people, such as women and men from different parts of the Syrian conflict areas, who have come very far in Track II initiatives at times. In this way, they have agreed on a future governance structure for Syria. We are not yet here, but it is important to continue to do so and to continue to invest in it, right now. As far as the immediate future is concerned, I do not think that it is impossible for the United Nations to be approached under a new Secretary-General by one of the parties, for example by one of the three countries that are now sitting together. In addition, there are many cases where the United Nations is not at all asked for involvement. For example, the UN has not been invited to the recent evacuations from Madaya and Sabadani and the UN has only been involved in the evacuation of Daraja at the last minute. In my opinion, three conditions must always be met: the UN must be approached by both sides, the role of the UN must be clear and international standards of protection must be respected. I'm coming on my trip to Iraq. I will be brief, because that is not really on today's agenda. There are two things to say about this. First of all, I would like to express my great respect for our Dutch military and civilian staff in Iraq, who are doing their work under very difficult conditions. I've been to a destroyed village 30 kilometers from Mosul, near the front. That village was right on the front line between the peshmergas and ISIS. Humanitarian aid is extremely important there. Minister Ploumen will talk about this in a moment. But I have now seen it with my own eyes in the terrible cold and drab. At the same time, progress is being made on the military operation. But governance and cooperation are at the heart of our talks with the government in Baghdad and Erbil and others. That's the point. The same applies to Syria. In this sense, there is an agreement, but also a big difference between Mosul and Aleppo. In Mosul it is about disabling ISIS, but in Aleppo there is a completely different situation. I've come to visit the headlines. It is important to show our solidarity to the Christian groups in Egypt. A lot of people died. At the moment millions of people are dying in Aleppo, especially Muslims. That is what our solidarity should go for. But that also applies to the enormous dramas that have taken place in the Coptic Church. On the morning that I was there, a little child of 10 years old had just died from his injuries as a result of the attack in that Coptic Church. It is important not only to think about this, but also to show our solidarity. The situation of the Coptic Church contains a lesson for all of us. That church, together with the Muslims in Egypt, is one front to fight together against the extremists. That church also does not promote the dividing lines that are mainly promoted here by the PVV and other groups. The only bastion against terror and violence is joint action against these kinds of terrorist threats. Al-Sisi's government, regardless of how you feel about that government, is helping to restore the Coptic Church. That happened in about two weeks. In addition, the medical facilities for the people there are at the forefront. I think they're trying to keep it Egyptian. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u99	Mr. Chairman. I thank Members for all their questions and comments. I would first like to address the situation in Aleppo and the evacuation from Aleppo. I will then discuss the humanitarian situation in the region in general, the role and contribution of other countries in the region and the commitment of the European Union. I shall now turn to the question of reception in the region and its financing. Before this debate began, I received a petition from the organization Save the Children. What is so special about that is that not only the signatures of the director and the staff of that organisation are included, but also those of more than 33,000 Dutch, who express their concerns about the situation in Syria, especially in Aleppo. It will certainly do them good to hear that their concerns are shared here in the Chamber and that we are looking together for ways to alleviate the suffering of the people there, in a humanitarian sense but also in a military-diplomatic sense. Mr Koenders has already spoken about the evacuations from Aleppo. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about the situation there. About 50,000 people have left Aleppo. According to the International Committee of the Red Cross, 30,000 people have been officially evacuated. However, it is difficult to get precise figures. There are indeed UN monitors in place now. About 50 people from the United Nations Humanitarian Staff are in West Aleppo for monitoring the situation. For now, that seems sufficient. If the UN comes with the request to the Netherlands to make people available, we will, of course, be willing to do so immediately. It is very good that this monitoring is taking place. Of course, it would have been better if the evacuation had not taken place, if we could have monitored it two weeks earlier. This debate consists of all second and third bests, but it is a good thing that these monitors are there. Turkey plays an important and constructive role in reception. They've already recorded 1,000 inhabitants of Aleppo. They are building refugee camps in the Idlib region together with the relief organizations. Yesterday I called the Deputy Prime Minister of Turkey, Mehmet Şimşek, to thank him for that contribution, because they are only there, in the situation that they have already recorded almost 3 million people. Of course, I have also asked him that is a concern I hear from the Chamber, but that is also the concern of the government to do everything in its power to prevent Idlib from becoming a repeat of Aleppo. We agreed to keep talking about that. Of course, the Turks also have safety concerns, which are quite legitimate. After the evacuation, screening will also be carried out in order to filter out any IS fighters from the group of refugees. I think it is important to know that this screening is being carried out by the United Nations. What does the Netherlands do for the people in Aleppo and the people who are evacuated from Aleppo? We support the UN, the ICRC and NGOs in Syria with 75 million. Specifically for Aleppo, we have used the UN's pooled funds to provide aid of EUR 10 million. Recently we have contributed EUR 2.3 million, specifically for health care in Aleppo. Anyway, you've seen it all: it's really dramatic. The needs in Aleppo are so high that most organisations working in that region are now concentrating on refugees, displaced persons from Aleppo. Of course, we continue to support the major UN organisations with general contributions. That gives them the freedom to use those resources where they think they need them. Shouldn't there be a bigger contribution to the Red Cross? A contribution to the Red Cross has already been promised for 2017. It's already in the books. That is a total of EUR 55 million. Of course, the Red Cross is free to use that money in the most acute crises. We are also always looking at whether that remains sufficient, but for the time being the year has yet to begin. We're also looking at whether there could be even more effective channels. Mrs Voortman said about the evacuations in Aleppo: of course there are also sick children in that group of refugees. As far as we know, therefore, medical treatment in the region is now often carried out in Turkey, which is also good. The World Health Organisation supervises this. If the UN or the ICRC were to submit a request to the Netherlands to take in sick children, we would look favourably at them. It's a very different situation, but the method is similar to the way it's happened to people affected by the disease Ebola. There's no request now. The Turks are doing everything they can to give extra care to the extra needy and the children and older people who are sick, but we will keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u100	With regard to the evacuations, I had asked another question about separating men from women and children. Are the rumours about this also known to the Minister? My other question was about the reports we are getting about still closing the Turkish border. These people are being evacuated. Some go to Idlib and surroundings but some also go north. But when they arrive in the north, they find a closed Turkish border. Does the Minister hear these sounds? Can we appeal to the Turks to ensure that people actually enter safe territory?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u101	On that last point, I spoke with the Prime Minister yesterday about the situation with the people in Idlib. Turkey is keen to help and wants to do so as effectively and efficiently as possible. It is therefore also setting up refugee camps in the region. Mr Voordewind talks about reports that the border would actually be closed, but the picture is, of course, more diffuse as always. I was just talking about sick kids. People who are in need of help will be admitted. So the Turks are doing everything they can to improve the situation for the refugees. Do we have reports of the separation of men and women? I think the government has heard the same rumors as Mr Voordewind, but they are still rumors. However, I would like to say to him that we are monitoring this very closely and carefully. Because that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u102	I agree with the Minister: we can all criticise Erdogan, but the fact is that Turkey is receiving a lot of people at the moment. I said 2 million myself; the minister even says 3 million. That was also my question about vulnerable people. Maybe I didn't say it clearly enough, but I said sick, comma, elderly. Vulnerable people. I hear the Minister now saying: if a request were to be made for people to be admitted, we would look at that. This means that there is no request now, but that the cabinet should be open to it, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u103	I did not hear all the commas in Mrs Voortman's question. It's a good thing she's going to spell this out. I specifically talked about cases of, for example, sick children or people who really need medical care that they cannot get in the region for any reason. The situation is now that Turkey is taking up most of those people and caring for them. The World Health Organisation is also watching over this. It monitors if it's all going well. If the World Health Organization calls for sick children or elderly people to be included, we will look favourably at them. However, I would like to say once again that this request is not there at the moment, because Turkey is very much committed to providing this aid in its own country and around the border, as I say to Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u104	Of course, that's only to be appreciated, but I'm worried about this. There are already so many people being caught that it is possible that the system will sink through the hooves at some point. That could be a moment for the Netherlands to say: we are recording those people. I am therefore pleased with the willingness to do so if the request was made by the World Health Organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u105	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u106	Yeah, I'm just gonna go over the food drop. I just want to say to Mr Van Bommel that we are constantly monitoring and keeping all options open. Mr Van Bommel is gone for a while now, but I'm sure he'll hear that. I still have a few points. It is important to zoom in on Aleppo, but also to provide help in places where there are no cameras or where they are already gone. There is now a severe winter and as a result a number of people, Jezidis, are in need of help in certain regions. We support Dutch organisations and also the UN to provide assistance there. The same situation arises in Kobani and in all kinds of other places that Mrs Voortman referred to. We have spoken before about the difficult situation in Kobani. The border is closed from Turkey. I would like to say to the Chamber that I am entering into a dialogue with Turkey to see if we can actively assist reliable partners, including in Kobani. Mr De Roon rightly asked what the neighbouring countries are doing about aid. They make a big financial contribution. I have already referred him to the UN Financial Tracking Service. At that time, I provided precise data. Mr De Roon is right to make a point, and I would like to support the fact that these countries have to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u107	The Minister supports that, but I'm not very clear how. President to be, Trump, has already announced in a public speech that he is going to create safe ports in Syria and that he is going to make the Gulf States pay for it. Now it's three or four weeks before he gets to the helm. Is the Minister prepared to take this initiative instead of hoping that something can be created in the current situation around Idlib? I have to say, I don't really see that, because Idlib is just Al-Nusra. So how that can't be second Aleppo, I don't understand yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u108	I think we all have great concerns about Idlib. I don't want to see a confrontation on this point that isn't there. President Trump has yet to take office. Let us wait for that. All kinds of options have been suggested and we are going to listen to them with interest. I do not want to respond to a proposal that has not yet been made. That would be a little crazy, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u109	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u110	I would like to make a comment about an area that we have often discussed here: the border area, the border area between Jordan and Syria. The Chamber did not ask for it now, but I would like to make a comment on it. We have spoken before about the impotence that we all feel about the situation, not only in Aleppo, but throughout Syria, also in the border. Professor Thomas Spijkerboer recently wrote about it in an opinion piece in the NRC. Out of frustration that we can all feel well, he wrote that apparently the international community, but politicians in particular, did not even want physical contact with refugees and therefore the help with a crane the roadside in them. I was particularly touched by that. I understand his frustration, but nothing is less true. The Netherlands has been the country that after a long time had access to bring that help there. Of course, because of security risks, that border is just closed. We just couldn't reach it physically. It was just the only way to get that help there. If I could've walked over there, I would've just done it. And that goes for all the emergency workers who work there. The reason we had to do it is only in legitimate security concerns that Jordan has. The situation there is unabatedly difficult, but we continue to talk to the Jordan authorities about the provision of aid. That time they agreed to this and the Netherlands was lucky enough to make it possible. That's what I wanted to say, knowing that the Chamber was worried about it, too. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Voordewind suggested that additional funds be made available for reception in the region. We are not going to repeat the budget debate, but just for the sake of clarity: in 2016, the government released 260 million for reception in the region. A letter was recently sent to the Chamber on this subject. That contribution is for 2016 and 2017. Those 24 months we are active with this contribution in those countries. Those programs are running. We also added 48 million to the emergency aid fund during the budgetary procedure. So there are still resources available there. We are going to spend it, of course, because the need is high. I see no reason to add additional resources at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u111	The Minister and I differ on that. In the rest of her story, I was able to follow the minister pretty well. It is not just about budgetary treatment, but also about the Autumn Note, specifically Article 5.2, which still contains 102 million of which it is not clear how it will be distributed and whether it will go to the major deficits surrounding the article. Or will the money be used to boost the substantially lower amount of funds available to the Netherlands and this cabinet in 2017? I am not saying this in order to force the enormous efforts of the Netherlands, but simply because I see the enormous challenges we still have ahead of us. As far as I am concerned, if that money can be used in this way through an unexpected windfall, it would be very welcome. It was intended for the first-year reception of asylum seekers. How better to use that money than to take care of the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u112	I would like to say a few words about the resources that we are spending. It is true that resources have been returned to the Autumn note because fewer people have sought refuge in the Netherlands, but it is also true that we have been burdened more than we would have done in normal circumstances in later years by means of a cash drawer. We want to use these resources to solve part of that problem. The cabinet has chosen to do so, knowing that 48 million has been added to the emergency aid fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u113	Thank you. Do you still need a second term, Mr Knops?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u114	I need a question first, Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u115	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u116	In response to questions from Mr Servaes and myself, the Minister just indicated that she has a sum of 55 million in the books for the Red Cross for 2017 for the important work that this organisation is doing. The Red Cross and other organisations foresee that this may not be enough for the needs that need to be met. Is the Minister saying that this amount has been poured into concrete, or can organisations always report to her if there is any reason to do so, just when we have found together that the Red Cross is one of the few organisations that has access to those who have the highest needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u117	The needs are indeed very high and 55 million is a lot of money, which will undoubtedly be well spent by the Red Cross. The practice is that we are constantly in consultation with the UN and the Red Cross to see how the funds can be used best. I am not going to say that I am open to requests, but I am not going to say that it will not happen. We monitor that carefully. For the time being, this amount is in the books and they can do the good work with it, where they think it is best spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u118	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the MPs and see if there's a need for a second term. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u119	I thank both ministers for their answers. I thank the Members of Parliament, the officials, the clerks, the messengers and the people who have followed this debate in a different way.
