ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of Defense. I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate was a report by EenVandaag, which strongly criticized the RIVM research on PX-10, the weapon oil used to clean military weapons. There are a lot of people who are sick now. On 26 January there was an information meeting of the Defense Department. I was there and I saw a lot of former employees with complaints. However, the DOD insists on the RIVM investigation in which any connection is denied. My thesis is that this investigation is raging. The conclusions are soft as butter. Only 23 people were questioned. The RIVM was based on average exposure and had little regard for the peak load. It was based on a group approach rather than an individual approach. The actual effect of PX-10 has never been investigated because it did not know RIVM. This criticism is also mentioned by several experts, such as Professor Tytgat. RIVM has spoken to him, but the disagreement remains standing. Today we also heard that the exposure to PX-10 was actually much higher than the RIVM claims. A document for this purpose, published today, was published in 1980. I'll give it to the chairman so it can be made available to the CIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u3	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u4	In short, the RIVM research was done on the basis of questionable assumptions. The consequences of using PX-10 have not been properly investigated. The Chamber and the government will have to do something with that. As far as I am concerned, new independent investigations will be launched, otherwise we will abandon victims. Last Monday, a report came out from ClaimZorg. 480 employees were interviewed about their experiences with PX-10. Conclusion: one in three soldiers has become ill. We also read that the DOD had been aware of the dangers of PX-10 for a long time. They were known from the 1950s on. However, it was continued by the Defense Department, without any security instructions, which is mandatory under the Arbo Act. At that time, the Department of Defense is failing. The burden of proof will then be reversed: Defense will have to prove that someone has not become ill by PX-10. Does the Minister recognize that? I'd like to hear a reaction to this. When will we get a full response to the report from ClaimZorg instead of the very brief note we received yesterday? Today we can do something. The least is new research or a so-called counter-expertise that answers the many outstanding questions. In addition, a compensation scheme would be fair for those who complain. The minister is obliged to do so to her people, as with the chrome paint. An arrangement has also been made for this. Of course there are costs involved, but that should not be a reason to leave victims in the cold. Does the Minister agree with me? If that's the case, I'm asking her to at least provide a counter-expertise, an independent assessment of the RIVM study.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u5	I see that Mr Teeven has another question. For clarity: I allow two interruptions and those interruptions go in two, so ask and follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u6	I would like to ask Mr Van Dijk if he is an employee or former member of the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u7	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u8	Then what were you doing as a MP at a private meeting for employees and former employees of the Defense Department, Mr Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u9	Well, that's very simple. That information meeting came because of myself, among other things. Indeed, I asked in November to look very closely at this RIVM research. The Minister did not want that, but offered to organise an information meeting. Then what's wrong with going there, Mr. Bitch? In fact, I had hoped that you would be there and that you would also be concerned with the people who are now sick and incredibly concerned about the fact that this has to do with PX-10.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u10	I am very concerned about the fate of employees and former employees. If they're ill, that should definitely be investigated. I'm gonna ask my question again. If he's not a Defense Officer or an ex-Defension Officer, isn't it a little sneaky for Mr. Van Dijk to crawl in on such a closed agreement? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u11	A private meeting? I just called, signed up, and I got let in. Mr Teeven could have done the same. It didn't have to be a private meeting for me either. There was someone there from the press. It was not approached in the most pleasant way, to my great surprise. What's with all the secrecy? This will increase the suspicion towards the Defense Department. PX-10 is a cover-up and that case needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u12	Mr Van Dijk says that it would be a lot more people who worked with PX-10 than the number that RIVM included in the report. I have looked into the dossier and come to the conclusion that there is confusion. People assume that PX-10 would contain benzene, whereas that is not the case. Therefore, they are higher than the number mentioned in the RIVM report. Is Mr Van Dijk aware of the information that in PX-10 no benzene was used as a weapon oil and that it had a completely different function and application?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u13	I'm stunned about this. No benzene in PX-10? I would like to say to Mrs Günthal: listen to the experts who have spoken on this matter and look at the document that I have just had added to the Acts. PX-10 was extremely toxic, partly due to the benzene contained in it. The big problem is that RIVM researchers have never been able to find out the actual composition of the PX-10 used at the time and have therefore never been able to do a good research. I am counting on Mrs Günal's support, because the PvdA always attaches a great deal of value to defence personnel. There are now a lot of victims working with this medicine. They're entitled to a proper investigation. That good research hasn't been done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u14	I will serve Mr Van Dijk in my contribution at first glance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u15	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u16	Whether he will be satisfied with what I will say, let me say in the middle, but I am not making this up myself. I take this out of the report of the meeting of 28 January, where Mr Van Dijk was also present. RIVM makes it clear that the confusion is caused by the fact that in PX-10 it is confused with weapon oil where no benzene was present and had a completely different function and application. Explicitly, this sentence is contained in the aforementioned report. I'd like to look it up for Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u17	I would like to draw attention to the numerous researchers who have shown that there are major problems with PX-10. The actually used PX-10 was never investigated by the RIVM. That should be a reason to look very closely at what really happened in the defence field, because the people concerned have never been well helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u18	Mr. Chairman. Dozens of diseases and diseases are on the front of last week's research report PX-10 issued by ClaimZorg. Some of these conditions are unknown to me, but the name alone suggests the worst. Given the wide picture of disease and the large number of stakeholders, it is therefore very important that there be rapid clarification. As a good employer, Defense has to take care of that, the PVV finds. We have a number of specific questions for the Minister. Has this medicine also been used by foreign armed forces? If this is the case, is there any knowledge of health consequences among the personnel of these foreign armed forces? Following the publication of the RIVM report, did any additional evidence come up regarding the exact composition of PX-10? Or do experts, legal experts and we politicians continue to conjecture? I read in the papers and reports that the percentage of benzene used in the RIVM study is estimated. The exact composition is remarkably still surrounded by mystery. Then there is the much discussed RIVM report itself, in which there is no connection between PX-10 and additional health complaints. My group has a number of questions about this. Expert and critic Professor Tytgat wants an independent study in which independent experts will review that RIVM research again. RIVM says that report has already been reviewed by two independent foreign experts. However, there is nothing in the report on their findings. What was the question posed by those two foreign experts in that assessment? And how did they react to that? Is that in writing? Can the Minister send those responses to the Chamber? Is there a need for a new investigation? The Minister doesn't think so. She's okay with RIVM's investigation. However, this research is questioned by other experts. Well, I don't know what other MPs think about this, but I find it difficult to make a choice in this. It is a question of expert opinions in relation to expert opinions. Then the question is whether we should go over this again with a whole new investigation, with a good question and with a fresh look. The military trade union AFMP wants to, but at ClaimZorg Injury damage they say again that that is not necessary. They don't want this there. In any case, I wonder whether new research will produce a clear and convincing result for everyone. However, it is clear that a new investigation will take a lot of time again. Are we supposed to do that to all those sick people? You can also approach this in a different way, a way that I would like to consider to the Minister. It is certain that at some point, the DOD acknowledged that working with PX-10 was indeed necessary to take precautions in the interests of the health of the employees. So before then, those precautions weren't there and the DOD failed. But even after the Defence Department realized that precautions were needed, it failed, because the monitoring of these precautions remained inadequate for a long time. I am therefore now saying to the Minister: acknowledge that Defence has failed, show good employership by defending the interests of your employees and ex-workers. This is not about a package of butter, it is about essential health problems. I say to the Minister, accept the responsibility of the Defense Department. Accept reversal of the burden of proof and, as with the issue of chromium paint, assume that you will have to compare compensation with the individual complainants. I say to the Minister: go to trial only in obvious nonsensical claims.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u19	Mr. Chairman. "Every Friday, dozens of guns went through my hands. From 1973 to 1986, I worked with that good. That happened in the armory, an unventilated room, and no one ever warned me it was toxic." According to Jan Carbo in an interview in the Algemeen Dagblad of 5 September 2015. For years, he inspected weapons that were soaked with the cleansing agent PX-10. He did that with his bare hands. "Nobody told me after 1981 that I could wear gloves or a mask." Mr Carbo became seriously ill, held his former employer responsible and tried to sue Defense a year and a half ago, but lost the case. That's a big deal for the people who've gotten sick. There are many more former soldiers who have worked with PX-10 and are now suffering from health problems. There's a lot of unrest and a lot of uncertainty. This proved to be the case at the meeting on 28 January. I think everyone in the Chamber shares these concerns, as Mr De Roon said just now. Everyone will want to see what exactly was in that item and what the causal relationship is or isn't. In the case of chromium-6, the Minister took the investigation very well after all the tumult. Defence now seems to be sufficiently keen to ensure a safe working environment for the personnel. Where necessary, measures shall be taken and risks mitigated. How different it has been in the past with PX-10. There were no protective equipment available. The staff worked in unventilated or poorly ventilated areas and was not informed about the dangers of working with PX-10. Early this week, a report from ClaimZorg appeared. Let me not turn my heart into a murder pit; I am not a fan of all these claims, because there is always an interest in it that may not be pure. Let me just put it this way. I don't make myself popular with this, but I'll tell you. This should be about individual matters. So I'm not a fan of all kinds of claims. Yet, in that report of ClaimZorg there are some things that require clarification. The documents that have become public through the WOB show that several senior military personnel have sounded the alarm clock since 1980 about the use of PX-10, for example the inspector of the medical service of the Navy, a colonel of the Marines and a defense consultant/chemist. The Chief of Navy Staff would have stated that PX-10 is being used in armory rooms under unacceptable conditions. I quote: 'I find this all the more unacceptable because it contains elements such as benzene, toluene and xylene, which are very harmful and can even be irreparable to the health of personnel who have to work with this substance.' Those are solid lyrics. The RIVM has apparently also indicated that it is shocked by all reports of the carcinogenic nature of PX-10, but unfortunately no measurements have been found to support this, either in the air or in the PX-10 itself. This has led to a limitation in the 2011 RIVM investigation; this is also indicated by the RIVM itself. The exact composition of PX-10 is unknown. It is based on assumptions based on information provided by the Defense Department. In the case of the CDA, independence is not at issue, I would like to say that RIVM has no expertise. We are not experts and experts are opposed to experts, as Mr De Roon said. That makes it extremely difficult. The benzene content may have been higher than that assumed by RIVM. Toxicologist Professor Tytgat also reports this. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. The minister says she's open to facts, but the question is of course what Defense knew about the harmfulness of PX-10 in the 1980s. What can the Minister find out about this and is the Minister prepared to look into the archives to see if all relevant documents can come up, as with chromium-6? One of the scenarios of the RIVM study was a high exposure scenario, which would include several thousands of people. At the meeting of 28 January, a former marine employee outlined a scenario of very high concentration, very poor ventilation and peak load. Can these scenarios with even higher exposure be investigated? Why has no investigation been carried out into what were the decisive factors in soldiers who have become ill, soldiers who are exposed to these high concentrations day in, day out, year in, year out in, for example, the weapons workshops? Is the Minister still prepared to carry out such an additional investigation, looking at the group that actually reports health complaints? A comparison can then be made with the circumstances in which they have worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u20	You really need to wrap up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u21	I think I have to turn in something else in a moment. I can do it through an interruption. On the basis of the RIVM study, the Minister said that there is no causal link, but Professor Tytgat indicated that individual research shows that there is a causal link between PX-10 and disease. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. How's the Minister handling this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u22	Mr. Chairman. There are concerns among a number of former employees of the Defense Department. These concerns must be taken seriously by the Chamber, and so do we all. This is without prejudice to the fact that the VVD Group has so far been satisfied with the policy pursued by this minister on the PX-10 dossier and the way in which the Defence Organisation deals with employees who may have been exposed to PX-10. This satisfaction with the way in which ex-workers are dealt with is reflected in a number of military personnel unions, but there are, of course, questions that our group also has. Yesterday, the Chamber received the answers to questions put by Mr Van Dijk of the SP. With the Minister, the VVD Group believes that much information could be provided by the information meeting in Utrecht. It also makes sense, given the long history of this dossier, that this response is not understood by everyone. Our group welcomes the mistress's commitment that if other inspection reports on PX-10 are to be found, they will still be revealed. Indeed, RIVM's group research appears to be the best method and any employee is free to file a claim, after which an individual-oriented approach is chosen if appropriate. This has already happened in a number of cases. There have been well over 100 claims, some of which have been withdrawn and some of which are now under 100. The VVD Group has taken good note of the fact that there is no better scientific method of research at this independent research institute than group assessment, which could give a better estimate of the leukaemia risk. RIVM is clear about this: new research would not lead to other results. At the information meeting Professor Lebret provided information on the research of RIVM. In this context, I would ask the Minister whether there is a possibility of other speakers also talking about the fact that in the revision workshop of the Navy employees have been exposed to dust or vapour from PX-10 in a very intensive manner that is outside the ranges used in the research of the RIVM. Does this very specific point give rise to further research by the RIVM? Could this still affect the conclusion of the RIVM? Furthermore, the VVD Group asks the Minister whether its organisation can continue to be open to discussions and meetings with former employees, regardless of the legal situation, in which it identifies and informs. Of course, there is always the way of an individual claim. A number of employees and former employees have also opted for this. However, this requires a very different assessment, as a causal link must be established between the effects of PX-10 and the illness or complaints of the employee, in which other facts and circumstances may also play a role, regardless of the employee's business relationship with the Defense. Bringing all this out in the context of an individual claim is a burden on the employees. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u23	It is interesting that Mr Teeven is asking for a revision on that one point, if I understand him correctly. Maybe he'd like to explain that. So it's about the place where a higher exposure would have been. However, my question is as follows. If two scientists have different views on the consequences of this drug, isn't politics obliged to look very closely at the exact situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u24	That discussion is justified but not new. Questions were raised in 2011. Even then RIVM looked at it again. The VVD Group assesses the situation on the basis of the response of an independent institute, the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment. We must take this seriously. Defense has chosen an open question, not a closed one. Then we must assume that which the RIVM reports, especially if foreign institutions are still involved. As Mr De Roon said, I cannot judge it either, I am not an expert. I have to assume that what an independent state institute says about it is the truth. I have no reason to even think that there is any influence on the part of the government on the conclusions of the institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u25	I broadly agree with Mr Teeven. The judgment of the RIVM is clear, but there are other judgments of other scientists. I think you've got politics to deal with. Next, Mr. Teeven says in his first sentences that he sympathizes with the people in the Defense Department, that he understands complaints, that he also finds it annoying. What message does he have for these people? I'm sorry, I'm staying with RIVM? Or at least gives him the chance to look at the RIVM research through a so-called counterexpertise and then see what's needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u26	I don't have that message for people. I've already spoken out the message the VVD has. Then people have to file an individual claim. A large number of people have done the same. A number of claims have been withdrawn at some point; see the documents. That leaves about 85 claims. That was also exchanged at the meeting where you were present. At that time you need to establish a causal link between the disease, the complaints of former employees and the substance PX-10. The group investigation has been of a very different order. At the moment, I have no reason to believe that the RIVM's group research has not been good. Nor do I see what a counter-expertise could add to that, with the exception of the one point on which I have put a specific question. The RIVM works in that group study with certain bandwidths; "these are the extremes within which our research has taken place." It seems sensible to ask the Minister to check with the RIVM whether the one case in which more employees may have worked in the Navy workshop is outside the ranges. I don't even know. I'm not an expert either. It's possible it's within the bandwidth range.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u27	I was charmed that Mr Teeven said he read all the reports and that he is aware of the uncertainty that exists among all employees. If the VVD believes that safety is important and that people in an organisation should be able to work safely, what exactly is the problem if you simply want to give these people who have taken care of our safety the safe feeling that proper research has been carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u28	These people have nothing to do with the sense of security that proper research has been carried out. Those people are basically the same as us. We have to assume an institution that we think is very independent. With regard to environmental reports, the D66 Group has repeatedly said that RIVM is doing a good job and that should be the case for the cabinet. The VVD also takes that view on this dossier. It's about the group investigation. I see no reason to do that again, to come to a revision. If employees in concrete situations consider that they should file a claim, they should file an individual claim. Some have done so, but some have not. The number mentioned by Mr Van Dijk, namely 480, is considerably higher than the number of claims currently being dealt with by the Defence Organisation. If they have submitted that claim, it will be examined whether the complaints they have can only be directly traced back to a quantity of benzene in a substance or whether there may be other causes. Smoking also involves benzene. But then you have to look at this whole individual picture and we do not have it in the Chamber today. I realize very well that that's incriminating for people. But it's very complicated to let Defense take on group liability, while in this situation it's about individual liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u29	I conclude that Mr Teeven needs a lot of words to say that his party also stands up for Defence personnel when it needs clarity, which cannot be given. Apart from the discussions that have taken place before, do I ask Mr Teeven whether he agrees with D66 that there is a difference between an investigation asking whether it is possible that something might be at issue and an investigation into how many people are ill and whether there is a causal link?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u30	That is precisely what is at stake. That's why the VVD supports those employees. When people file an individual claim, we believe that it should be investigated by the Defence Organization. Thus, if a causal link is established in a particular claim situation, then so be it. That seems pretty clear to me. But with the method chosen now, we cannot accept individual liability or even group liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u31	This will be your second and final interruption, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u32	I hear what Mr Teeven is saying, but I insist that it is amazing how often you hear the VVD say how important defence personnel are, but that it does not keep something so simple to itself by saying: we are going to actively investigate it and we are not going to leave it to the random or people to complain and to what extent that complaint is passed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u33	I note that the D66 Group often describes the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment as a renowned institute which it accepts the conclusions, but now it feels differently about this now that it is not convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u34	Mr. Chairman. For the Labour Party, Defence personnel are the most critical success factor of the armed forces. If it turns out that Defence bears responsibility for complaints and disease of active and former personnel, Defence will have to recognise and act on liability. A very important point for us is that a relationship between complaints and work must be demonstrated by an independent investigation. It's not the first time we've talked about PX-10 in the Chamber; we've done that before. It has been mentioned many times: an independent study was carried out in 2011 by a very renowned institute, the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment. Because there were still too many questions and doubts among the employees about the investigation, the Minister, at the request of the House of Representatives, organised an information meeting on 28 January last for the employees and former employees of Defence, for which we appreciated the Minister. In that meeting, people are given space to do their story and ask their questions. I also understand that there were a lot of questions and concerns. We have received the report from the Minister's meeting. I was surprised to hear Mr Teeven also refer to this in an interruption to read that at this meeting for employees there were also Dutch MPs present. In this case, it was one of our colleagues. I'm asking the Minister what the code was for this meeting. Was it a closed meeting to mainly speak and inform the employees or was it a public meeting to which MPs were also invited? In that case, I missed something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u35	Mrs. Belhaj, I owe you one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u36	I heard Mr Teven say the same. I find this rather special. After all, I wanted to ask why all of us were not invited. There can't be anything discussed that we don't know? Is Mrs Günal-Gezer really calling for people's representatives to be excluded from meetings where there is nothing more to say than what we should already know?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u37	Members of parliament are free to have conversations with everyone at any time, to inform themselves and to collect information. But as a Member of Parliament, we have a lot of opportunities and moments, like today, to talk to the Minister about asking questions and trying to get clarity and answers. When you organise a meeting for the employees and former employees to especially give them the opportunity and opportunity to ask questions and tell their stories, we as MPs should be reluctant to do so, not take that space and not actively participate in such a meeting by asking questions ourselves. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u38	There is now a very clear demand for closure rather than for the PvdA to say: we would like people's representatives to be present at such meetings so that they can take a good look at what it means for employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u39	Mrs Belhaj draws a conclusion, but I did not say that at all. I have made it very clear that MPs have every freedom to be present everywhere, but I do expect some restraint when you yourself ask for a meeting where employees should be able to put their concerns, questions and comments to the Defense Department. I think you shouldn't be there and you shouldn't be actively asking questions there. That's at the expense of the space you want to offer the employees. There are concerns about what happened to the employees by working with PX-10. I understand, read that at Defense there is an opportunity for individual people to report with a claim. There have been several people who have done so. Can the Minister briefly explain how people can come forward? Is there a quick, simple way and is there a clear hotline where people can call in? Could the Minister perhaps take us into account what picture emerges from all individual claims? I think it is very important that people get access to the DOD quickly and easily. I have a question about the unions. The AFMP has been very critical and has filed a complaint with the Defense because it does not agree with the progress of the investigation, including with regard to the investigation. How are the other unions in this? Do they share the criticism of the AFMP? Or are they in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u40	Let's talk about this information meeting first. Mrs Günal-Gezer, I think you should be ashamed of the way in which you address this, just like Mr Bitch. Are I being accused of having been to an information meeting about PX-10, when I was there myself when the minister invented to keep it, and that I was interested in it? People really appreciated me being there. They said: "How nice that there is a Member of Parliament who listens to us; too bad that you are the only one." Then you're gonna talk a little bit about me taking up space there and stuff like that. I'm sorry, but I can't do anything with that. Now I'll ask my question. Last year at EenVandaag there were revelations about the research into PX-10. Then your colleague Mrs Eijsink said: okay, if there are many questions, then a new assessment of that study would be appropriate. That counter-expertise never came.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u41	For starters, I want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u42	Were you ready, Mr Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u43	I assume that the Labour Party is not happy with this and that you agree with me that there should be a counter-expertise on RIVM research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u44	First of all, I should like to distance myself from Mr Van Dijk's words that I should be ashamed of myself. I didn't blame anyone. I asked the Minister very openly what code that meeting had. Was it a private meeting, just for the employees? Or was it a public meeting, where all Members of Parliament might have been welcome? I didn't know that. I wasn't invited. Apparently, Mr Van Dijk was invited. I'm very curious if that invitation was true for all of us. I am and will remain of the opinion: if you want to give the employees room to tell their stories and ask questions in all openness, sincerity and honesty, then I think that there should be time and space for those employees. As politicians, we should not take up space and time at the expense of the staff. That's my opinion. Mr Van Dijk does not have to agree. Fortunately, I have also often, in many places, contacted the employees, to collect my information and knowledge. Well, let's talk about the counter-expertise. We have also looked very closely at the research carried out and talked about it with a lot of people. RIVM is a very renowned institute, which has carried out a very thorough research. On the basis of a research question, it has chosen a particular research method and there comes a result. That research was then submitted to two international institutes for counterexpertise. For my group, that is enough and does not need to be subjected to counter-expertise again. We don't think there's any need for extra counterexpertise. I would ask Mr Van Dijk to be real for once. He keeps telling people all the time: new research, new research. I believe that people do not need a new investigation, but that they want to be heard, that they want to be helped and that they want to be taken seriously. As far as our group is concerned, they must go to the Defense Department on an individual basis as soon as possible in order to make an individual claim there. It's up to the Department of Defense to make room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u45	The answers must be really short. The same applies to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u46	I wasn't invited to that meeting, but I called and asked if I could be there. I'm registered there and I was welcome. Mrs Güntal could have done the same, but she did not. Then about the counterexpertise. Mrs Güntal holds a story about international researchers who have looked at it, but a counterexpertise has never been done. Her colleague Mrs Eijsink asked for a counter-expertise on television, but I do not hear any more about it in the Chamber. She wants to take these people seriously, but those people do not feel taken seriously at all by an investigation by the RIVM that is ragged and flawed. They request an independent assessment of the investigation. If Mrs Güntal loves that research so much, what does she have to say: fine, let it be assessed independently, then we have clarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u47	I have repeatedly stressed that we take people extremely seriously. For us, that is the most important point. We would very much like people to be heard as soon as possible, to be able to tell their stories and to be referred very quickly to a process in which further research is carried out into the overall picture of the situation. It looks not only at the working conditions that have been present, but also at other factors that may be related to their current complaints. I distance myself from the qualifications given by Mr Van Dijk to the research of RIVM. We believe that this is an investigation by a very renowned institute. We remain of the opinion that its independence is sufficient and that there has been a counter-expertise. This is a thorough investigation. We do not think it is necessary to allow another counter-expertise to go over this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u48	Mr. Chairman. If there is new facts or information, RIVM is prepared to carry out further research: that is what the Minister said almost six months ago about the PX-10 file. Five years ago, RIVM did research into working with PX-10 in Defense. Indeed, new facts have emerged since then. Firstly, several scientists show that other research is possible. Secondly, there are hundreds of former DOD employees who worked with PX-10 and are now seriously ill. Thirdly, it remains to be seen whether the appropriate precautions have been taken from a good employership. D66, like the SP, wants a new investigation into working with PX-10 at Defense. I'll explain why. The research of the RIVM was not done wrong in some sense, but perhaps the wrong one was investigated. As a reply to the question whether RIVM is still a solid institution, I say: yes, RIVM is a solid institution. It's not really about that either. It's about the question that's been asked. Actually, it's not a higher math; it's just on the front. It is about the potential: what are the chances that people could have gotten sick? That is a very different question from the one the Minister could have asked, namely: do you want to investigate to what extent people have actually become ill? So it's not about the potential. Of course, that takes a lot of time, but that's a different kind of question. The whole discussion that says you're done when you say it's RIVM right or wrong, I find it too simple. I hope I have also answered the accusation that, if you are not in favour of this, you are against RIVM. The role of RIVM is also quite different from the possible conduct of individual investigations. Thousands of people in Defense worked with PX-10, but the RIVM only interviewed 23 people in the Royal Navy. So there are very few of them. It is clearly noted that, apparently in all units, a broad call has been made to participate in that investigation. I found it striking that of all those people who were apparently approached, only 23 were willing to cooperate. I wonder what kind of letter was sent. Maybe people didn't know, or they didn't understand. At least that's different now. Now it is clear that there are more people who would very much like to participate in the investigation. As stated earlier, nearly 500 employees have reported working with PX-10. My question is simple. In the light of these new facts and developments, is the Minister prepared to carry out a new investigation? Given the time, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to skip a few things. I shall therefore continue my speech with a comment on safety. How is it that an organisation whose purpose is to bring safety does not have the safety for its own employees in order? Can the Minister reflect on that? Is the Minister prepared to look into the report of ClaimZorg and give an official response to it? Finally. Again, new facts simply justify a new investigation. The people who take care of our safety have a right to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u49	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u50	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to the Chamber again about PX-10; in particular about the research carried out by RIVM on the composition and use of PX-10 and its health effects on staff. Whatever is said tonight, let it be clear that the DOD is taking care of its employees and former employees seriously. As an employer, Defence has a special responsibility for the staff. That is precisely why RIVM was asked at the time to investigate whether the work with PX-10 could have led to diseases in employees, in particular leukaemia. In that case, we are talking about the so-called 'causality'. I always heard that in the various contributions when it comes to individual research versus group research, for example in Mrs Belhaj's contribution. That is actually the question that Mrs Belhaj has just raised. I understand that in itself, but for me it is important what other authoritative scientific institutes normally use and then this is really not a strange approach. In fact, it is done in this way by the WHO, for example. The individual level of research is about whether an individual's illness may have been caused by the conditions at work. So it is based on the disease of the individual. In order to determine this, it is necessary to establish whether exposure to hazardous substances has occurred at work, but also in private, and whether these substances are related to the condition in question. It was rightly pointed out by others that other factors which have allowed a disease to occur such as dietary habits, exposure to radiation, smoking, infectious diseases, hereditary predisposition and susceptibility to certain substances should also be considered. As I said, the research at individual level takes the starting point of being sick of the employee. I try to make the distinction clear in the debate. However, the individual study does not answer the question that is important for the employer, the so-called "causality question," namely: what health effects can be expected on people who have worked with PX-10? That really calls for statements at group level and for group research. That is also what RIVM has done: research at group level. An individual examination could be on its own, but that means that all people who have come into contact with PX-10 in the past must undergo an individual examination. That also means that there will be an investigation into life as a whole. Such an individual examination may reveal whether someone is healthy or may have another disease. With this approach, the Defense Department should investigate thousands of people individually. Moreover, in that individual examination, you must also take into account other individual factors, as I have just indicated. If people do not agree with the results of the group study, an individual can of course file a claim. That has already been said by a number of Members. I'm going to go further on group versus individual. Professor Tytgat was recited. I get that, because he's right to say that you can never rule out the possibility that a particular individual can experience an effect of working with PX-10. In itself, that is correct, but that is different from the so-called 'causality'. RIVM certainly doesn't deny that either. The argument is also correct that an employee with different personal characteristics from the group could be at higher risk and could therefore be affected. That's what RIVM says. But again, for the employer, the question is whether that causality can be accepted and what that could mean for a generic regulation and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u51	Was this the general introduction, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u52	No, I'm already busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u53	I understand what the Minister is trying to make clear, but I think that is precisely what the disagreement is about. In my opinion, the Minister continues to hide behind the fact that this causality has not been demonstrated and that no further investigation should therefore be carried out. But the Minister doesn't have to question all the Defence personnel on this, she can just take a representative group. For example, you can take 2,000 people, 500 of whom have smoked. With a different form of research, you can at least say more than on the basis of the limited group of people who have now worked with. That's what that counter-expertise is all about. If that is the Minister's fear, then I tell her that not everyone necessarily needs to be questioned. Does the Minister not agree with me that such an intermediate step is also a possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u54	I'm not that anxious, but I'm kind of anxious to try to act on the basis of facts. What is actually being proposed is a kind of representative sample. However, this has never been the starting point, certainly not for this group study, but also for RIVM. Nor is it what is used in group studies by, for example, other authoritative scientific institutes. A sample examines how often, for example, a particular disease occurs. In fact, you have an average. That doesn't mean anything. A group study like this really goes much further and looks at the nature, extent and severity of all the conditions that can arise from working with a particular substance. It is important to see how this research has been built up. I am referring to the four phases and mention the literature research, the focus group discussions I will get to that in a moment, because there is a lot of misunderstanding about the 23.. laboratory models and calculations and the tests and experiments that have been done. The investigation therefore involves quite a few things. The RIVM has developed six scenarios, in which different conditions have been mimicked with bandwidths and so on. Those scenarios are listed on page 15 of the report. I think Mrs Belhaj has also taken note of this. The RIVM has then developed two hypothetical careers at the Department of Defense to assess the risk. They were called the working lives. These have been tested on two scenarios with relatively high exposures: the military scenario in the armory and on board ships, and the scenario of a civilian who worked with PX-10 for many years. Just those working lives represented the worst case scenarios. That says so much more than a representative sample in which you come up with an average.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u55	It's very tempting to discuss research methods, but I'm not going to do that. I do not agree with the analysis made by the Minister, but I do have room to say that a sample would be less than the research done by RIVM. Again, you wouldn't be afraid of that, would you, if this were to give so many people clarity? They may get sick of the idea that they don't know. Surely the Minister could simply have a counter-expertise, a sample carried out? You're not gonna lose anything with that, are you? Isn't that all you're gonna win?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u56	Mrs Belhaj did not wish to discuss the research carried out, but suggested a representative sample and counter-expertise. She completely ignores the review that took place prior to publication, the critical capacity that RIVM has organised in any case and the fact that other authoritative scientific institutes would also address such a research in this way. In short, no. If I had been looking for an average, I would have done that right. We were just looking for the answer to the question: what means has been used and what health effects can you expect for employees and former employees? If that causality is established, how can we respond to our employees? At the same time, we have never said that this means that no one can ever get sick because, for example, he has worked with PX-10 or under other circumstances in the Defense Department. That has never been said and for that you also have the individual route. That individual route is also used. I understand very well, by the way. If you get a bad message from the doctor, you think, "Why?" Why me? Why my husband? I've experienced it myself. Then you start looking for causes. Was it in my family? What did I do? Those are all questions. Your life is flashing. It's coming back. You ask the questions again, and at once you think: that might have been it. But that doesn't mean that's it. It may be, but it doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u57	The last interruption, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u58	This is exactly what this is about. The uncertainty the minister describes is precisely the uncertainty these people feel. It makes great sense to say that the RIVM study met the question that was asked at the time, namely "is it possible that there may be causality?" Fair, but you can also ask the question..... not to the RIVM, because that does not investigate these kinds of things.................................................................................................................................................................. That's another question, and you can just do it. You have that kind of influence and potential. I'd be so happy if you got convinced that it's important for all those people to take away that uncertainty you're describing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u59	Suppose I am sick and I think the working conditions of that time may have contributed to that. When I say that my employer from then on is therefore obliged to find out whether that is the case, that is precisely the reversal of the burden of proof that Mr Van Dijk asked for. That's really going a step too far here. If this so-called causality had been established, you would have had a point, but that is precisely the crux of the whole debate. Let's move on. I think I have said enough about the scenarios and the construction of the report. There has also been a lot of talk about the discussions with the focus groups. There were supposed to be interviews. I just explained that it wasn't a representative stitch group. It was precisely that scientists with certain people, I believe with a group of up to ten people, were able to have good conversations, to ask a lot of questions that they considered relevant in order to chart the scenarios more and more. How often and under what conditions have the work been carried out? This must be known, as must the studies on benzene evaporation and benzene exposure, in order to calculate the risks involved. That's what those focus groups were meant for. So I really think we have to find out here that this is something other than the representative samples that have caused a lot of noise, which I also understand, by the way. I understand that, too. Some of the members said that employees continue to worry. That's right. I believe 2,000 people have been briefed on the fact that that meeting would take place. About 150 employees and former employees had applied. Eventually, 50 came. We will continue to do our utmost to provide these employees with the best possible answers. Employees who are concerned can come forward. Former personnel turn to the ABP healthcare office and active staff turn to the responsible military doctor or the company doctor. In short, I also think it is important that we continue to seek dialogue, but that is really something other than reversing the burden of proof here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u60	Indeed, I have read more often, also in response from the Minister, that people can report, former employees at the health office and actively serving with the company doctor. Can the Minister briefly tell us what the general picture is at the moment? Did people report to those hotlines? Or is that all disappointing? Can the Minister more actively draw the attention of the people concerned to the existing possibilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u61	There are information pages about PX-10 on the intranet, but also externally. I think it's a complicated question whether there's a storm going on or not. What does that mean? If there's a storm, it would be very bad news. In any case, a lot of people would be worried. That is not the case at the moment, but of course we do have a number of claims. I will come back to that later. There were 50 people at that meeting for a reason. I think it is important that sufficient information is available digitally, but that people can also turn to the ABP's healthcare office, to their own doctor, but also, for example, if they wish to file a claim, to the Legal Services Department, JVD. All this information can be found everywhere and was also disseminated at that meeting. Get in touch with corporate social work, talk to JVD. It may sound annoying to the defense, but it is the right of the people involved to file that claim and then go through the process. What happens then is pretty intense. You need a medical certificate, you need to back all of that up, and your whole life is under review. Not everyone likes that. There is also a very close look at what your lifestyle was. All that stuff will come along. Everyone's free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u62	That's kind of the escape. If people have complaints, they can file an individual claim. That's a lot of hassle, as the Minister himself says, and it could take years. There may also be reference to the RIVM study and it is said that we could not prove any connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u63	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u64	My question is whether the Minister, if people do so, can rule out the possibility that nothing will be done about it because the matter is time-barred.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u65	As far as I know, I know that question was raised last week, but don't ask me when Defence didn't reject it by appealing to statute of limitations. I wouldn't like that either. I am prepared to ensure this and to inform you more about it. This is too sensitive for that. The problem is also that the working conditions from then on are assessed by the glasses of today. We have talked about this before when we were talking about chromium-6. Sometimes that's hard, because you keep looking at what the norming was then when you inevitably wear the glasses you're wearing today. I don't think statute of limitations is a good thing here. I am not in favour of rejecting cases on the basis of limitation periods. I have to check this out, because I don't have all the claims in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u66	I appreciate that. I've been notified that this was said to someone. He should have filed his claim for 2011. I can see if I can get that information to the Minister. She has now made it very clear that statute of limitations cannot be an argument for rejecting a claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u67	Let us help each other. If there's any information I need to make sure I can keep a commitment, I'm happy to get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u69	I have just received a note stating that after the broadcasts of EenVandaag two people have applied to the ABP and eleven to the legal services, in response to Mrs Güntal's question. Now she has a picture of the numbers. It's still open, by the way. After today's debate, that possibility will certainly not be closed, please. Mr Van Dijk and Mr Knops asked whether I was prepared to carry out a counter-expertise. I explained in the previous debate that RIVM is not an isolated phenomenon, but that it is internationally embedded. In general, it is a combination of different institutions. You can see that here, too. There has been cooperation from the Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences of the University of Utrecht and the Scottish Institute of Occupational Medicine has been intensively involved in the research. RIVM is very good at organizing its own critical capacity. To this end, two foreign experts were employed, namely an expert from the University of Illinois at Chicago in the United States and Mr Schneider, who previously worked at the National Institute of Occupational Health in Copenhagen, Denmark. They have fully reviewed this report for publication. That information is known to the Chamber. Mr Van Dijk or Mr Knops asked whether those reviews could be made public. That is not the case now. I just checked that out. Apparently, it's a WOB request. If the experts agree, it can be made public. That request is now pending. If it can be made public, so will the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u70	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u71	This is your last interruption. It's your second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u72	You're relentless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u73	Tonight it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u74	Seriously. This is actually the most important point. There is only one simple question that lies above this debate: is the Minister prepared to look very closely at an investigation that is so much to be done about? She refers to other international reviews that were done earlier when the research was done. That's not what we're talking about. On the basis of the questions that have arisen, we ask the following question. On the basis of the questions that have arisen today, is the Minister prepared to have a counter-expertise so that the concerns can be removed? I can't imagine why the Minister would be against that. The only reason I can think of is because she's afraid that things aren't right and that those things will turn up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u75	I'm not that scared or scared; I'm not that scared. I'm actually a little tired of that frame. I am not leaving behind to investigate what needs to be investigated, whether it is possible malpractice in ICT, chromium or anything else. In this case, however, a very renowned independent institute, RIVM, has come to this conclusion, in conjunction with other institutes and other international experts. In the period between that investigation and now, there is no new facts or circumstances. Therefore, I have no reason to question the conclusions of the RIVM. The RIVM has also indicated this and I feel I am committed to it. What kind of research can I go on on if we are seriously starting to question and question this kind of research carried out with care? Are we going to repeat research every few years in the future? That can't be true. Frankly, I do not think that is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u76	It's on a platter now. The Minister is not afraid, and the Minister does not leave to sort things out properly. Great; grab that opportunity! I am not thinking of it myself: this investigation is controversial and it has limitations. The RIVM itself acknowledges that. Some experts say that things are not well measured. I've just given the Minister another document showing up again. The Minister can remove all doubts at once by saying now: let's go, let's do a counter-expertise and then we have clarity. As long as it does not, however, I will continue to question this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u77	I don't hear new facts or new circumstances. I would like to join a very renowned independent institution, which has come to the same conclusion. RIVM researchers indicate that there are no facts or circumstances that would require the conclusions to be reviewed or the investigation to be reopened or restarted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u78	We are actually talking about proportionality. What are we talking about when we're talking about a counter-expertise? Is that a complete review of the whole investigation? Or is it also possible, as I asked in my first term, to make individual claims, for example, that are the cases in which people are really ill, but do not know what caused this to be linked to the circumstances in which they have worked? I mentioned the example of the Navy's revision workshop. The RIVM employees have also said that they are new things for them. Of course, new facts can emerge in the near future, based on people who submit individual claims. And I don't think we're facing each other in this. We are all looking for the answer to the question of how it could have come to this and whether there is a connection, or perhaps a weak link. On the 28th there was talk at that meeting that I had not attended about people with health complaints and different situations. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether there is, on a limited scale, causality in those situations and in those people? I'm kind of on slippery ice because I'm not an investigator. But we have to do everything in our power and proportionality to get something more clear than we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u79	First of all, I would like to comment on the example of the revision workshop, which both Mr Knops and Mr Teeven cited. That was indeed at the meeting where these gentlemen were not present, but Mr Van Dijk, for example. Fortunately, we have all been able to see the report. Someone was placed in a certain scenario and didn't recognize themselves in that scenario. That person was of the opinion that that is his right to have fallen into a higher scenario in that presentation. That's how I understood it. During the pause, RIVM spoke with the person concerned and explained that his personal exposure in the situation described by him may indeed be in line with a scenario with higher exposure. But that is no reason to suddenly change the conclusions. These are precisely the six scenarios with which RIVM has always worked. I just gave the example that I'm getting a nasty message from a doctor. I'm thinking, like everyone else. Every human does that. Where did it come from? Why me? How righteous is that? Why am I in that statistic? I'm checking to see if my grandmother had it, who else had it. What the hell did I do in my life that it could have come to this? I think, then, I have just said that, and I am committed to doing so again, because that is what is going on here, that it was the circumstances of that time. I then go to my employer and say that I'm almost certain that I got this sick image because of the working conditions of that time. The employer doesn't recognize himself there is no group study in which any causality has been established and says: I'm not going to investigate it for you, but if you keep it up, you're free to file a claim. The employer is not going to say: fine Mrs. Hennis, I'm going to take care of it for you and I'm going to map out your entire personal life. That is also the case here. Individual claims may be filed. I have just said that it is not the case that because no causality has been established in a group, it can never be that way. After all, it all has to do with personal characteristics in the body. That's what you can see from the number of claims filed. Of the 95 claims now filed, there are 3 to relate leukemia. There is indeed a very close examination of whether the disease is related to the working conditions of that time. So that's the way it's being looked at. I find it very difficult when a number of Members ask me to organise a very quick reversal of the burden of proof. That's going a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u80	Finally, Mr Knops. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u81	I haven't really interrupted yet, and this is an important point. I'm trying to be short, but I don't know if it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u82	Sorry, I was tall too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u83	I'm not looking for a reversal of the burden of proof. Now suppose that in a number of individual claims there is a causality between the nature of the work and its duration and its circumstances, and the disease picture. Could that lead to some kind of revised conclusion of the overall investigation again? The group causality has not been established. I'm gonna leave that for a while. I'll take that as a gift. Suppose there are ten situations, individual issues, where a causality is established between the fact that people did work in which they came into contact with PX-10 and the fact that they became ill. Can this lead to a different conclusion with retroactive effect, or will we continue to see it as individual claims, individual situations where there is something of causality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u84	Then, in that individual case, it could lead to the recognition of liability by the Defense Department. This is different from taking over the so-called "group causality" at once. I have just said that all the personal characteristics of individuals are very different. It may still be that over the years, despite the modified composition of PX-10, people have suffered from a condition that can be seen in the answers to Mr Van Dijk's written questions by working with them, but it doesn't have to be. So it's not like you're getting anything because you've ever worked with it. In fact, it's been shown to be highly unlikely. However, this is never entirely impossible in individual cases. That is precisely why we have our individual trajectories.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u85	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u86	I have just answered Mr Teeven's question. Mrs Günal-Gezer asked about the other unions. I know the AFMP filed a complaint. The other unions didn't do that. I think there is a difference between the unions, but I honestly did not talk about it today. They are of course following this with interest, because taking good care of workers, former workers or current workers is not necessarily something of the unions, of the Chamber or of the Minister, but something of all of us together. Everyone wants these employees or former employees to be okay. That's how we got the research for chromium-6. That was something that at some point all the alarm bells went off on me. We were confronted with it every time and a causality was suspected. Then you want to prove it, too. I don't know what's gonna come out of the investigation. However, there was a reason to start an investigation. Just as former Secretary of State De Vries started this investigation. There was a reason for that. PX-10 was associated with a particular disease in a claim. Then that happens again, and then you're gonna investigate. Mr Van Dijk said again that the plea PX-10 was never actually investigated. As a result of the broadcast of EenVandaag, a storm of reports has come across us from people who still had cans in their barn. We also got word from a union. However, we have not received a look. PX-10 should not be confused with other substances that start with PX....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's kind of tricky. At the time, one of the unions also said that it still had 120 tins. However, I have not seen one look at it, nor have I seen the RIVM, while RIVM has repeatedly asked for it. If someone has a look at PX-10 somewhere, don't hesitate to tell us so that we can immediately forward it to the RIVM. Then a few comments on the survey and the report by Mr De Bruin van ClaimZorg. I really haven't had time to land the entire report. At first glance, it does not seem to contain any new facts. Frankly, as I said to Mrs Belhaj, I think it is a little far-reaching to respond formally to a report which also occasionally uses spicy language with regard to RIVM, for example when it is said that something is a farce. I don't really like that, especially when it comes to RIVM. The only new feature of the report is in fact the result of the survey. The survey results describe a wide variety of health problems experienced by a number of former employees. The problem is only a matter of urgency, but I will really look into it very carefully, because I cannot derive the cause of these health problems from that survey or from the information provided in it. The survey also contains information on the work carried out by the people, but it is unclear whether it was indeed work involving the use of PX-10. We have not yet been able to find the information to verify this in the file. Furthermore, the report describes a number of personal aspects of the work carried out, but these are not exactly new, as this information was already known from the focus group discussions conducted. Mr De Bruin is still talking about 1.7 million people who would have worked with PX-10. We have explained before that this is not true. Indeed, 1.7 million people served between 1950 and 1996, but this does not mean that all those people have worked with PX-10. It is not about interviews or statements by the group of 23, but about information from the focus groups as they were set up. Also, it would only be officers. That's not true at all. I can't just release the ranks, positions and names, because it's about privacy-sensitive information, but it's not true at all that 23 officers are involved. In fact, they were civilians and military, not in the rank of officer. This does not mean that those who took part in it never became officers, but that is another story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u87	How much longer does the minister think he's gonna need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u88	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u89	Okay. Then I suggest you finish your story first in those five minutes. Mrs Günal, who is now at the interrupting microphone, will then be given an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u90	Maybe I'll finish early. Mr De Roon asked if there were any new facts on the table after 2011. As far as we know, there has been no new information since 2011 and no better method has been found. There has been the necessary talk about safety instructions, including by Mr Van Dijk, who wanted to know what could be made public. I mentioned earlier that there were no policy instructions on the use of PX-10 other than those published under the Public Administration Act so far. However, if I do find it, I will not hesitate to make it public, just as we have done in the framework of chromium research. Mr De Roon asked whether it was used in foreign armed forces. Something wonderful is going on here. On the issue of chromium, too, I have made contact with armed forces with which we work regularly. That doesn't lead to much information or recognition. That money both if we raise the problems with PX-10, and with the issue of chromium. That's striking. However, you can assume that the product was also used elsewhere, especially since the product specifications were in English. However, we have not pulled everything out of the closet to investigate that with other armed forces, you know. Yet you would expect that if it had been here in all the newspapers, you would find recognition when you call this with a similar country. That is not the case. However, I would like to say once again that this is a product specified in accordance with the international defence standard. If I can find out more about what exactly happened to this, then I will not hesitate to inform the Chamber. However, a first rapid inventory really did not yield anything. I would like to say a few words about the data currently available to me in relation to people who still have a claim in the defense at this point. We are talking about 95 people. They are almost all accompanied by ClaimZorg Injury Damage, so by Mr De Bruin. I was just talking about "the three." Three people have a condition with a clear connection to benzene exposure. In one of those cases liability is recognised. But other factors, such as heredity, can also play a role. You'll get back to those personal qualities. In 16 diseases, this relationship with benzene is really less clear. There are also less strong indications in the literature in these conditions. There are 10 more skin conditions that require further investigation. In the remaining 66 cases, it concerns diseases which are not really associated with benzene in any way. In a number of cases it has not yet been announced. In short, we are all completing these individual routes. I have already said that Mrs Belhaj was quite right to ask how it is possible that the defence, the organisation that deals with security, loses sight of the safety of its own workers. I told you, we have to take into account that this was happening in a different time. We like to judge that time by the glasses of today. That makes perfect sense, and so do I. It is incomprehensible how people sometimes set up working conditions at that time. But we are talking about more than 30 to 40 years ago. At that time people really didn't have the same way as they do now. The report by the Navy shows that, although measures were announced and controls were being carried out, compliance would be really inadequate. The fact that that's not in order bothers you at the same time. If it's all in order, we'll never need inspection again. But I say again: given today's glasses, the circumstances of that time are incomprehensible. In the end, however, decisions must be taken on the basis of facts. That goes for everything. That's what I'm trying to do with the Chamber right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u91	We know the Minister as very bold. If she thinks it is necessary to accept her responsibility, she does not hesitate to do so. We've seen her do that before, including the chrome-6 case. The Minister rightly stresses the possibility of submitting individual claims. She has also said that there are several ways to file such a claim. We just talked about the 480 people who filled out the ClaimZorg survey. To what extent is the Minister prepared to actively draw these people's attention to the individual claim option?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u92	The persons concerned are accompanied by ClaimCare for injury, or should I say Injury Damage ClaimCare? Mr De Bruin knows very well how to advise his clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u93	Does the Minister say that all these people know that there is an opportunity to file an individual claim?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u94	I think everyone has that completely clear on their retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u95	I'm looking around to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. Speaking time shall be one minute, including the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u96	Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions. When will the reaction to the report of Claimzorg come? When will your response to the document I handed over to you, the 1980 letter, be obtained via EenVandaag? I would like a clear commitment that we will get a response to that. I have now also obtained a document on the limitation period which I can have added to the Acts; it concerns a letter dated 2 February 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u97	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u98	Then I have two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the RIVM study on PX-10 is under discussion;]] [[calls on the Government to counter-expertise RIVM's investigation of PX-10,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-X-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u99	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, for victims of PX-10, to draw up the same coulance scheme as for victims of chromium-6,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-X-85]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u100	Mr. Chairman. In order to acknowledge liability, I must see causality, the Minister says. I have a report here from the RIVM and it doesn't show that. It's a fine report, but there are experts who don't think it's a good report. There are also people who think it is a good report, but they say that the question is not correct. I have to say that as a lawyer, I can think along with the minister, but she's more than just a lawyer. It's a bit of a lawyer's point of view. In addition to being a lawyer, she is an employer and as an employer she has a very different responsibility. She likes to say that DOD is a great employer, but this attitude doesn't evoke that image. It is not the first time, because in the history of defence there have been many incidents where it has gone wrong, where workers have suffered harmful consequences and it took a very long time for it to be recognised once. I would argue in favour of avoiding the need for that investigation. If necessary, I won't stand in the way, but I hope it's not necessary. I hope the Minister says, "I will show myself to be a wise and smart employer and ensure that this problem gets out of the way as quickly as possible, I will go to the people who are going to meet with an offer and I will try to come to a comparison with them." Then it's done. Then, in a manner of speaking, this story can be completed within three months and no one needs a long-term study of which the results can be questioned over and over again. None of us have any interest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u101	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her answers. I welcome the Minister's commitment not to see individual claims as individual claims. If there is a pattern or if there is new information, no one knows whether there will be more information than what Mr Van Dijk has presented in EenVandaag and what the Minister will be responding to, then the Minister admits that she will involve and test the new facts in the investigation. That may lead to different conclusions, you never know. One thing is clear: the situation is unsatisfactory. I think neither the Minister nor the Chamber would like that, and certainly not those who have become ill. But if there are no more facts and evidence... we are not here in the Chamber to rewrite scientific reports, that will have to be on the basis of facts. This is unsatisfactory and I would like the Minister's undertaking to the Chamber on this point to act in the interests of the people who have become ill should new facts arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u102	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. They were clear. We are still waiting for the government's reaction, but for the VVD group, no new facts and circumstances have emerged from the Claim report. Like Mr Knops, we welcome the Minister's commitment that if there is a new pattern to be found in the pending claims, this will be looked into. Furthermore, we await the situation. I really hope that I will also assume that the Minister will keep the momentum going, so that there will be no unnecessary delay in resolving this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u103	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for her clear answers and the commitment to look very closely at individual claims and to get information from them that may be of interest, including to the Chamber. We see that this dossier is handled very carefully by the Minister and by the Defence Department. In a very good way, what happens to individual employees and former employees is investigated. People are very well escorted. Think about the care desk, corporate social work and also the Defense Department itself. We therefore see no reason to ask the Minister to carry out a new or additional investigation or a counter-expertise. We're not scientists, we're not researchers. We still believe that RIVM, as a renowned institute, has delivered an independent, sound and high-quality research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u104	Mr. Chairman. If something has become clear today, it is disappointing. Disappointing because there is no majority to remove the uncertainty among people who are uncertain about the extent to which they have become ill or not. We are very grateful to these people. They take care of our safety. How hard does it have to be, I thought, to do something very simple for these people? The Minister said it nicely. She saw different cases with respect to chromium-6. "I picked up those signals," she said, "and then it turned out there was indeed a causal link." That's how I interpreted it. I think we asked the same question in the debate. I am tasting a fine majority for a motion that I thought might be the only way out. However, it is disappointing that there is no majority for anything else. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the DOD offers former employees who have worked with PX-10 the opportunity to file an individual claim;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber in six months of the number of former employees of the Defense Department who have submitted an individual claim, as well as to indicate how many of those claims have been shown to be causal between working with PX-10 and diseases that could be caused by them, such as acute AML,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-X-86]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u105	I'm rounding up. I will honestly admit that I really had the hope that something exciting might happen in the sense of new insights or an appeal to the PvdA, the workers' party, the workers' party. I thought something nice could happen on the occasion of the 70th birthday, but it didn't turn out to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u106	Mr Van Dijk wants to ask a question. I assume it's about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u107	Well, I was just about to say I totally agreed with that last sentence. No, I'll come back to the motion. I thought I signed it, too. Maybe I can just report that for the minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u108	Well, that's handy for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u109	That is an important point: the Socialist Party has tabled this motion together with D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u110	Then I give the floor to the Minister. I would like to add that the last motion is being distributed at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u111	That is important, because I barely understood the text of that motion. Mr. Chairman. I've read the motion by now. We're good to go. Mr Van Dijk rightly asked for a further response to the document of 3 July 1980. I did not, by mistake, say anything about this in the first term. I'll take a good look at that. I have to react quickly, but as far as we can see, no benzene concentration is mentioned in the document. I always find it a bit difficult, but let me take a closer look at the document and the Chamber will hear from me. Mr Van Dijk also asked for a response to the report by ClaimZorg. I find it very difficult that I should formally report to the Chamber on reports and statements of claims of injury, but I will do so. I will draw up a letter containing a response to the report by ClaimZorg Injury Damage, with the comment I have made. I call on you not to make a habit of it. In that letter I will also refer to the document just referred to by Mr Van Dijk and to the limitation period. So I will take those three points in one letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u112	I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk for an informative question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u113	When's the letter coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u114	Early March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u115	2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u116	Yes, early March 2016. Then I'll go straight to the motions. I have just lost the notes I have made on what everyone has said. First of all, I will respond to what Mr De Roon said about employers' responsibility. I think that's nice, because I heard him right. But precisely because of the employer's responsibility, I started my first term with that. Defence has taken responsibility for having the research carried out by the RIVM as it has been done. At the time, Secretary of State De Vries ordered this, precisely to give clarity to all those who were concerned about the reports at that time. That is actually similar but also different, because we have learned a lot more about how to create support, communicate more and operate more transparently in the run-up to such research. That's why we do it with chromium-6 as we do it now, but in fact the whole run has been the same: people are worried, the employer feels that they are willing to take responsibility and therefore orders that they identify it, from which comes a conclusion that the employer has to do something with. Mrs Belhaj said just as quickly: yes, as with chromium-6, that liability was established at that time. But no, that investigation is still ongoing; that is still ongoing. It is true that the whole research setup has been similar. How's that going? There's gonna be reports in the media. There are registrations at the ABP healthcare office. It's all connected to chromium-6. That's what you're worried about as an employer, and then you want to take responsibility and start an investigation like that. That's what happened at PX-10.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u117	It is all true what the Minister says, but look at the image; at the moment the Minister rejects every problem and says: go to trial. In other words, this gives the impression that the Defence Department is an employer who is willing to go to the extreme to sue that employee either dull or broken. I am not saying that the Minister wishes to do so personally, but that is the picture that is now emerging. I say to the Minister, avoid that image! It will cost you a few cents, but it will cost much less than the 1 billion that the cabinet has allocated to accommodate all kinds of asylum seekers and also much less than the €3.450 we are going to offer Ukrainians, as I read, if they go back to their own country. It's gonna cost the minister a lot less. Why don't you do that and meet those soldiers? Then we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u118	The image is, of course, a horror. I'm sorry about that, too. I am also concerned about the fact that the picture does not contribute to reassuring workers who may not even be completely ill, but who have once worked with PX-10 in the past. This is what's going on right now. With all due respect, I'm not about broadcasts, I'm not about certain interviews. Defence then wanted to take on its employers' responsibilities, and it was precisely for this reason that it wanted to be carried out very carefully, in order to provide clarity to those who are concerned about the fact that they have worked with PX-10 for a certain period of time. I am now doing everything I can to answer the questions of those who are concerned about the fuss that has arisen. But that's really different from reversing the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u119	The Minister says to do everything in his power, but I think she could do something more. I ask the Minister to at least offer to the people who are going to be involved to pay all the costs of research they have to make in order to support their claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u120	I'm sorry, but I'm not going to serve anyone who's no cure no pay-based. This has an unprecedented precedent. I can't get into that. That is precisely the reversal of the burden of proof, which I have just discussed in detail. I'm getting to the motions. The Jasper van Dijk/Belhaj motion in part No. 84 we've just discussed extensively. This motion, which is about counterexpertise, I advise against. The Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 85 is about a coulance regulation. Coulance is at issue in the event of a lack of clarity. At the time, as Secretary of State De Vries pointed out at the time, we were able to support the first claims that came in. As long as that uncertainty exists, you would like to serve everyone as well as possible and offer comfort and so on until the results of the study are known. We have created a coulance regulation for the problem of chromium-6. We didn't have it at PX-10 yet, but we've been cool back then. That is something other than a coulance regulation, but still. Now that conclusions have been reached for some time now, there can be no question of setting up a new coulance regime. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u121	Let me get this straight. In that sense, my motions are indeed complementary. I'm asking for a counter-expertise and until then, a coulance arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u122	I advise against this motion. In the Belhaj/Jasper van Dijk motion to item No. 86 the government is invited to inform the Chamber in six months' time. I'd like to do that. The proposers could have just asked this. I do not think this should be put into a motion at all. I'll do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u123	Judgment Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u124	Yes. A motion for a resolution is a heavy means of doing this. I could have just agreed to that. Mr Knops, who is not present in the Chamber at the moment, and Mr Teeven asked whether we should stay awake when it comes to information and new facts that might arise. I think RIVM itself has been extremely clear. RIVM has no need to get itself into trouble. When suddenly a pattern is discovered or when things are discussed in individual cases that make RIVM think, I really assume that it informs me about it. We will, of course, also keep in active contact with RIVM ourselves, precisely because of our employers' responsibility. There can be no doubt about that. At the moment, the conclusion is really clear: there are no new facts and no new circumstances. The RIVM remains in line with those conclusions. That's why I'm gonna stand by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-12.u125	We will vote on the motions after the recess on Tuesday 1 March 2016.
