ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. The test addiction of State Secretary Dekker seems to be coming to an end: the kindergarten test, the central Cito final test, the calculation test and also the underlying test, which in The Hague jargon is called the "diagnostic intermediate test." Over and over again, the House of Representatives has had to amend the Secretary of State. Luckily, all those honking files have done the same. After fierce protests from the world of education and the House of Representatives, the Secretary of State withdrew his miserable plan for the compulsory under-building test. The CDA was therefore surprised and unpleasantly surprised that last week we had to read in Didactive that this experiment, with no less than 150 schools, has a price tag of 8 million euros. This while the government knows that there is no support for this. But that doesn't seem to affect the Secretary of State. He just wants to see how far he can get. As far as the CDA is concerned, we're gonna stop this as soon as possible. The underlying test is developed in collaboration with the CvTE. I have a number of questions about this. Why does the cabinet instruct the CvTE to develop a test for which there is no legal basis at all? Why does the cabinet opt for such a large money-consuming pilot including the well-known glossy brochures and government propaganda to allow as many schools as possible to participate? How does the Minister prevent Cito from commercially exploiting the knowledge gained in this public funded pilot? I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u2	We were thinking about what the abbreviation "CvTE" stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u3	It stands for "College for Keys and Exams."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Maybe it is good to first point out that the diagnostic intermediate test fits into the policy to stimulate yield-oriented work and customization and differentiation. This is an ambition of the Secretary of State, of the Department, of the VO Council and of the schools. I know there's been a bill that included a mandatory test. I also know that the Chamber has said that we do not want a mandatory test. The Secretary of State then decided to waive a legal obligation. He did, however, conclude the Sector Understanding with the VO Council, which states that the diagnostic interim test would be further developed as a pilot to examine what is working and what is not working and to see what is supporting it. The Secretary of State also reported this to the Chamber, including in the June 2014 letter on the usefulness and value of review. In other places, too, the Secretary of State reported this, as in the progress report on the sector agreement. In addition, the results of the first pilot year, 2014-2015, have been made public. There is, therefore, a pilot rather than an unexpected measure. You have to run a pilot. This is done through the funds that are earmarked for this purpose. Mr Rog's questions on the Committee on Keys and Examinations are very specific and I will therefore ask the Secretary of State to respond in writing. Structural funds have been earmarked. Resources and insights are increasing every year. I'm asking the Secretary of State to get these things straight. In general terms, this pilot has been communicated transparently with the Chamber. The pilot is large because at least 150 schools have to participate in order to make the pilot meaningful. There's no obligation. Schools can decide for themselves whether they participate, in how many courses they participate in, it's Dutch, English and mathematics, and how many classes they participate in. 280 schools volunteered to participate in the pilot. I would add that out of the first 150 schools, only one school has been abandoned. This is therefore in line with a need for schools. We need to look at whether the results are also desirable for a follow-up later on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister is talking about a need that would exist in schools. There is no school that is not allowed to use tests, or diagnostic tests or any kind of tests. For that, they can go to the market, where they can buy those tests. We are now faced with the situation that, during a conversation between the Secretary of State and the VO Council, it was decided to spend a lot of money, which was made available by the taxpayer for education, through the CvTE, a government institution under the responsibility of the minister. I note that this means that we have a strange situation: one publicly funded organisation is developing a test that has no legal basis. After all, we in the House of Representatives have said that we do not want this diagnostic interim test. Then why is the government paying for the development of this test? If she does, I have another follow-up question: why is such a pilot, such an experiment, not being tendered for at European level? Alternative test providers must develop all this themselves. That costs a lot of money, while the government is sponsoring Cito. My question, which the Minister has not yet answered, is whether Cito will eventually be able to exploit this knowledge commercially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u6	Perhaps it is good to indicate that the diagnostic interim test at the start of the development was intended as a legally mandatory test. Hence, in the initial phase, in which the bill was still discussed, the foundation Cito started to develop that test; an organisation that is also internationally known for its expertise. When the legal obligation was waived, the Secretary of State decided, in consultation with the VO Council, to develop that test in a pilot. The development of this test is included in the SLOA Act. Thus it also has a legal basis, which gives the CvTE and Cito the opportunity to develop the test in a three-year pilot. That is why European procurement was not necessary. Moreover, the market was not able to obtain the development of this test because of the high development costs. This is really about new forms of testing: an adaptive test, which is also clearly not an end in itself, but a means to enable teachers to better understand how their students stand and how they can best guide their students to an even higher level. The pilot is also firmly committed to sharing knowledge so that all developed knowledge can be transferred to the market if it so wishes. Schools can buy it from the market in due course if necessary and as desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u7	The latter is interesting for the other market players who are developing tests. My first question is whether the Minister is saying that all knowledge will thus be equally available to all test providers. Then Cito will not remain in a priority position in front of her commercial branch, as is the case now. My second question is: if it were all so very important to experiment with this, why is the content of these tests not intelligible to students and teachers? Why is there so much secrecy around this test? Can the Minister answer that? After all, I wonder what we are actually experimenting with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u8	I agree with Mr Rog that it is desirable that all information collected with this pilot should be used as transparently as possible. I cannot now see whether there are any legal, legal or other obstacles, but I will ask the Secretary of State to comment on them in the letter he will send to the Chamber with the details. Know, however, that transparency is an important objective of ours, precisely to make all information as useful as possible for everyone. The second question was why teachers would have bad information. Perhaps it is good to indicate that the test has been inspected from the outset. Teachers can look back with each student the key they have taken. I would like to point out that this really is an innovative development. In addition, it has been said to the schools: if you participate, know that you also need to invest and that the information you get back is becoming more and more sophisticated. It starts at the school level. Then teachers get information back at class level. In the end, you want to get the information back at the student level, so that a teacher can see which student of his or her has any problems and how that student can be helped as best as possible to get a bit further ahead. Thus, with the further development of the pilot, the information becomes more and more sophisticated. That's one of the pilot's goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u9	The midterm test is unnecessary, because it tests what the teacher knew a long time ago. The key is not transparent either. So it doesn't help you, because you get the results back in table form instead of reading what was right or wrong. That is why, in 2013, we considered that the test should not be compulsory. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she is prepared to inform the Chamber that this can also be done, as far as I am concerned, by letter on whether we can stop the pilot. We're almost halfway there now. The amount of time and money spent on it, EUR 8 million and a lot of hours in education, we will then be able to spend usefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u10	I would like to nuance Mrs Ypma's statement that the information is not transparent. I have just said to Mr Rog that the information is becoming more and more sophisticated. I also know that in the first year, 2014-2015, the information was provided in graphic form and that the information is now much more delivered at class and student level. Then it seems useful to me to see what the pilot offers in the coming year. You don't just start with a pilot. This has also been exchanged with the Chamber in a number of letters from the Secretary of State. You don't just say in the meantime that we don't feel like it for a while and that we don't want to continue with the pilot. If you want to stop a pilot in the meantime, there must be reasonable arguments for that. I have the impression that it is desirable that the Chamber should first of all be informed more precisely about the stage we are in. Then the debate can always be held afterwards. It seems to me desirable to do so at the end of the pilot, because then we can all weigh the pros and cons well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u11	We regularly have contact with schools, students, teachers and executives. In recent years, I have never encountered one school where, after the question of what perspectives one sees for a diagnostic mid-term test, one had craving glances in the eyes and said: yes, that is what we are waiting for. On the contrary. They had a glassy look in the eyes before. They didn't know about it and they weren't interested in it either. Even if one participated in the pilot, there was no need for that test. The Minister says that the number of tasks for participation in the pilot proves that there is an interest in that test. Has the Minister realized that schools might have volunteered to sit on the buttons to avoid worse evil?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u12	I think that is a very pessimistic approach by Mr Bishop. Initially, it has been said that at least 150 schools will have to participate if this pilot is to provide enough information to make sense. I note that 280 schools volunteered. I also note that schools are completely free to surrender and, if they do so, for which subjects and which classes. The schools therefore have many options. We often say here that we should not impose things on schools from above, but that we should also look at what they need. That's what happens in this case. However, I agree with Mr Bishop that a very important question is whether the knowledge about these pilots within schools is well shared, not only by the school authorities and the school management, but also by the teachers involved. That seems to me to be one of the most important insights this pilot can provide. After all, every instrument can only be used well if the professional recognizes himself in it and feels that he owns his or her work. This pilot is not blissful in that, but it is an important part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u13	Now we're talking about the test in high school. I am surprised, by the way, that 280 of the slightly more than 700 schools volunteered to participate in this pilot. Is it possible that in the next report we will get an overview of the reasons why schools have signed up for participation in this pilot and what experiences they have so far with the pilot? In this way, we will have a better understanding of the reasons for the schools to participate and we will know better what it will do for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u14	This will be an important part of the letter I have just promised. Where are we now? How many schools have signed up? I understand that at the end of the day 280 of the 1400 VAO schools would like to be eligible. We will present to the Chamber as complete as possible which schools are participating, for what reason they are doing so and what their experiences so far are, as far as they are now known.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u15	Many sensible questions have already been asked by my colleagues. I'm trying to add one more to that. The people I encounter in the education sector, I myself, in fact, also belong to this introduction, see this as an orchestrated attack on the professional space of the teachers. Teachers find tests extremely important, but not tests developed in The Hague to help them. There are very different and much better ways to help teachers in the Netherlands. I think the government should start ruling instead of trying, because the whole education depends on pilots. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to convey for the second time the message to the Secretary of State, who unfortunately cannot be here today, that the House of Representatives does not want this test?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u16	I am happy to pass that question on to the Secretary of State, but I have not yet heard here that the House of Representatives does not want this test. However, I understand that there are many questions and that there is a great deal of uncertainty. That is why I think it is right that we should inform the Chamber as precisely as possible. I agree with Mr Van Meenen that it is extremely important that there is professional space for teachers and that they feel that they own their profession. That is why this pilot was not poured out from The Hague over the schools, but I say again that the schools could decide voluntarily whether or not they would participate. I note that it looks like it, let me say carefully that this test also meets a need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u17	My party is getting a little nauseous from these answers. The House of Representatives simply said in 2013 that it does not want this test. Next, the Secretary of State will put 8 million in a pilot via a back door to get the test in the schools. That's a little exemplary for this Secretary of State's way of working. The appropriate education goes down, but excellent schools are suddenly important and the test culture is only fueled. So I ask the Minister: when is the Secretary of State going to stop doing this kind of personal hobbies? 'Cause this really doesn't do the education any good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u18	I do not think Mrs Siderius is doing justice to the Secretary of State's policy. I already told you there was a bill. This was discussed with the Chamber in 2013. At that time, the Chamber said that we do not want a legal obligation on this test. To that the Secretary of State said: then I will keep that bill. I believe that this is still under discussion in the Chamber, but it has been there since 2013. He then agreed with the schools through the VO-Council that it would be useful to look at what a pilot would achieve. And here we are. From that pilot, the Room can find anything. Once again, the Chamber will soon have the opportunity to discuss this extensively with the Secretary of State, preferably after he has sent the Chamber his information. However, it cannot be expressly stated that this is an attempt to introduce all this legal obligation now through a back door. That's what the Chamber is about. The judgement can only be reached once the pilot has been completed and evaluated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u19	There was another oral question here just before the Minister spoke. Her colleague, Mr Blok, said that money is scarce. Does the Minister agree with me that it is wrong to prioritize spending a lot of money when a test of 8 million is being developed, where the Chamber has no need at all and for which there is no support, because there is already a lot of testing in education, in all kinds of ways?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u20	It is therefore up to schools to make that assessment. I draw the conclusion, also from the number of schools that have shown interest on their own, that schools need this. If we can actually provide those resources that allow us to deliver more tailor-made work and do more on yield-oriented work, with which we can ultimately better help students to follow good education and get everything that is possible on their own, it is not wasted money. That is why it is wise that it should now be a pilot, so that the weighted judgment can be reached, including by the Chamber, whether it should be continued and whether more or less resources should be devoted to it. This is still open on a structural basis.
