ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. I repeat the rules of a VAO, a report of a general consultation: two minutes' speaking time, including any motions, which are preferably short and concise. First of all, Mr Geurts of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas inhabitants of the Southeast Netherlands have been extremely affected by an ice storm with hailstones of unprecedented size;]] [[noting that the effects of natural violence in the south-east of the Netherlands are still looming in society;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an independent committee to identify and assess the damage in South-East Netherlands and to identify the extent to which this damage was insurable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the harvest has now been harvested from the land, it appears that there is actually no harvest in many places;]] [[noting that plots have been affected by extreme rain or water from below and that this damage is not all insurable or the high own risk of hailstorm;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether a fund for this type of damage, on purpose similar to the Animal Health Fund, can provide a solution to uninsurable damage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31710-66]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31710-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u3	You should always say that to me, Mr President. I'll be nice today. Mr. Chairman. We discussed in general discussions people who provide us with our primary necessities, our farmers. This is very serious natural violence, the worst of this century. I mean the century that started in 2000, because otherwise I will forget about the flood disaster, and I do not want to blame myself for it. This is a very serious story. Some insurance companies do pay for hail damage, others do not. They almost always have their own risk of 30%. But when their whole roof's ruined, people just don't have that money. That's why they have to stop. This destroys very beautiful, centuries-old family and family businesses by one case of storm. It can't be. We have to deal with it together at a time like this. We help the Greeks and the refugees, so we also help our farmers. End of exercise. It's that simple. That is why I have signed the motions tabled by my esteemed colleague, Mr Geurts of the CDA. The motions are about an independent committee and a fund. I hope that the Secretary of State will give us good assurances, so that we may be able to withdraw the motions. Otherwise, the Chamber will rule. Good evening, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u4	Thank you, but we're not there yet. I have the floor to give the floor to Mr Van Gerven of the SP Group. He too knows the rules of the game and knows that he has two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u5	Mr. Chairman. After the storm had raged out, it appeared that a lot of farmers were not well or insufficiently insured. I refer to the fine print in the conditions of the insurers. For example, I see here: sub 183c, Annex 3. This is about the fact that a minimum of 150 hectares of land must be affected. That kind of rule has led to a lot of farmers not being properly insured. Many farmers also found wide weather insurance too expensive and did not offer good coverage. Now the whole thing is being evaluated, but the question is whether this is sufficient. We need a new, good insurance package with broad support. To what extent is the Secretary of State involved? To what extent will he make an effort to look at a good insurance package for that broad weather insurance? Maybe he should look at the common agricultural policy, at a high level of public funded insurance, because we are likely to face the consequences of climate change more often in the future. What will the Secretary of State do about unreasonable and opaque conditions in policies, high risk and late payments? Maybe some kind of code or conduct can be created. My second question concerns the motion that the Chamber has adopted on the 140 companies that have asked for a postponement of repayment and have financial problems. A number of companies would stop and the question is what is going on with this. Is the Secretary of State involved in following these 140 companies, not only through the banks but also through the farmers' organisations? It's not supposed to bankrupt any good company because of the storm, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u6	This brings us to the end of the parliamentary term. The Secretary of State asks for a short suspension to receive and reschedule the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u7	Mr. Chairman. We have spoken before about the water and hail damage in the south-east of the Netherlands. In June there was a lot of damage with a large impact on the companies in the Southeast Netherlands. For many companies this has been quite a heavy blow. Companies have gone to a lot of trouble to recover from that. This has been worked together by the various levels of government involved, by industry and by various organisations, such as farmers' organisations. Everyone has contributed in this way where they could. There has also been constant discussion as to whether in this case there was a responsibility on the part of the public authorities to compensate for damage. This is the case if the Act would apply compensation damage in the event of disasters. We have repeatedly exchanged views that the conditions for that law were not met and that there was therefore no reason why the government should compensate for that damage. However, as pointed out by the Court, not all entrepreneurs were even more affected: the vast majority of entrepreneurs were not insured for the damage they suffered. This means that the task they were faced with was very great for these entrepreneurs, and that they were faced with great challenges. The first motion tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Graus, which calls for the setting-up of an independent committee to assess and assess all damage and to assess the extent to which it is insurable, refers back to the discussion on whether the government has a responsibility to compensate for damage. We have repeatedly exchanged views that this is not the case. That's why I don't recommend that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u8	Mr Geurts, before I give you the floor, I would like to point out that we are not having a debate on this, but that you can ask for an explanation or make a comment on the State Secretary's opinion on your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u9	What I find special is this. If there is a problem at the Merwede Bridge, the leader of the PvdA will go there and he will give help. If there is a problem with storms on Aruba, the headpiece of the Ministry, Plasterk, offers help. "If the Netherlands can contribute to the support of Aruba, we are happy to do so," I quote from the press release of the Ministry. If it is abroad, in this case Aruba, part of the Dutch Kingdom, we will immediately offer help there. Then we're not talking at all about the Disaster Compensation Act. Even if there is something in the Netherlands about a viaduct that many people go over, we don't do difficult. Then why are we making it difficult for these entrepreneurs and these citizens in the South-East of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u10	Did you hear what I said to you, Mr Geurts? I don't want a debate right now. That is not the nature of a general consultation report. You know that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u11	The evening is not over yet, Mr President, but if you address me in this way... this is an appropriate point for my group and for several groups. The Secretary of State responds to my motion and then he gets a counter-response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u12	Then you must ask for a debate. You are starting a new debate. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u13	I am used to this kind of equations by Mr Graus earlier in the general discussion, but not so much by Mr Geurts, because it does not do justice to reality either. In this situation, too, the government has helped where it can be done. Mr Geurts knows that too. We have opened up the possibility of reducing working hours. This has also been used by companies. The Ministry of I and M has extended the asbestos regime to ensure that anyone who had had hail damage on the roofs could use the asbestos restructuring arrangements to replace the roofs in this way. The Ministry of EZ has brought together all the efforts of everyone and ensured coordination in the national working group. For example, aid has been provided from all sides and everyone has made their own efforts. What the debate was about earlier was the question of whether the government should pay for all the damage here. Mr Geurts has previously tabled a motion on this subject, which was rejected by a majority in the Chamber. So the majority of the Chamber is also of the opinion that the government is not the one who has to compensate for the damage. That was the case before. This is indeed a repetition of moves, I say to the President. With this we fall back on the agreement made by Minister Veerman of the CDA at the time, including with representatives of the agricultural and horticultural organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u14	I also say to you, Secretary of State, that we are not going to do the debate again. That is not the nature of a general consultation report. We all know that. So we're not gonna do that. I give the floor to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u15	Mr President, I have a point of order: I have a second deadline to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u16	There is no second deadline for a general consultation report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u17	Of course I do. I always do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u18	No, it's not. As I pointed out, you seem to interpret the nature of a general consultation report somewhat differently from the rules in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u19	It makes sense that the government has done something. Mr Geurts and I did not say that nothing happened either. The Secretary of State says it's not a government task. That is why we are calling for an independent committee. The farmers, the injured, and the experts in this field say that the uplifting water is not insurable at all. That's the water that can't go away and is being pushed up. This has destroyed entire harvests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u20	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u21	I'll get to that. Normally you always say I speak too quickly and now I speak too slowly again. Together with Mr Geurts, I am asking for an independent committee, because we also want to examine the role of water boards. This is clearly the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u22	For all clarity: in the motion there is no mention of protruding water. The discussion between the affected companies and the waterboards about whether the damage may have been caused by the uplifting water, which is again due to the acting of the waterboards, must really take place there. It has been announced that legal action is being considered. The water boards form a different layer of government than the government. They are an independent layer of administration, with self-elected representatives. The debate must therefore take place at that level. I shouldn't be getting involved in that. This discussion is about water management. The motion concerns the damage caused by rain and hail, i.e. by the weather conditions. If the terms of the Act apply disaster compensation damage, there may, as we have said before, be a reason for the government to compensate for damage. This is the case, for example, in the case of large-scale floods. That's what that law says. That is out of the question. It is annoying damage, which is terrible for the companies in question, but that does not mean that it has to be compensated by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u23	The motion in part No. 67.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u24	In the motion in part No. Mr Geurts and Mr Graus asked for an investigation into a fund for the type of damage caused by extreme rain, hail, storms or water from below. We have discussed this in general consultation. If, as I said, a broad-based initiative is being taken from within the sector to create such a solidarity fund, I am, of course, prepared to cooperate, but in that order. This really is a discussion that needs to be held between farmers and growers. They must discuss with each other whether they want such a solidarity fund. The next question is then whether this means that we have to join and pay a compulsory premium for it. We can only consider such a thing if there is very broad support for it among farmers and gardeners. So I think the conversation should take place there first. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Mr Van Gerven asked how I am involved in the renewal of broad weather insurance. We've done the evaluation of that. It has been agreed that I shall first consult with the insurers and the representatives of the agricultural sector. Then I'll send a cabinet response to the Chamber. I am ready to hold these consultations at the same time as the representatives of insurers and agricultural holdings are ready. Mr Van Gerven asked us to look at the future perspective of the common agricultural policy, i.e. EU agricultural policy. One of the issues here is whether, instead of the aid that is now taking place in the form of direct payments, risk schemes such as those used by the Americans should be used more. This issue is explicitly on the table in the debate on the future of the CAP. Finally, Mr Van Gerven asked about the situation with the companies...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u25	The CAP is the common agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u26	Three sentences before that I had made that quite clear, so I hoped I could now afford the abbreviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u27	Look what's happening!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u28	Everyone walks away; it will come because of it! Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Gerven asked about the companies that had previously been delayed. That's more like 140. Now there's 75 more. The other 65 are out by now. Previously, I informed the Chamber that six companies seemed to be stopping and the storm was not necessarily the cause, but an accelerating factor. Five companies have been re-launched and have moved on. So there is only one company that is actually supervised by the banks. We keep in close contact with the banks, who have the best view of this. This type of subject can also be exchanged with, for example, the representatives of the agricultural sector to which Mr Van Gerven asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-21.u29	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the cabinet's term. Next Tuesday we will be voting on the motions tabled. I look around and I think all the players will be there for the next round. No, that's not the case.
