ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Market forces are a great asset in terms of the VVD. You don't have to deal with that too lightly. The market must be fair and unfair competition must be combated. According to the VVD, this includes a good and independent market master. The ACM was more critical about, for example, the agreement on the Kip van Morgen and the closure of coal plants. Of course sustainability is important, but it now seems a bit like if one is not happy with the ruling, the rules or supervision are changed. That's not supposed to happen, is it? According to the Minister, where is the border? There are, of course, more companies that run into the Competition Act and sometimes also hate it. In the past, for example, growers from horticulture have wanted to make a fist against the purchasing power of supermarkets. The ACM indicates that the law does not change, but that it is going to apply it more broadly. What's the basis for that? Why is that done for one purpose, but not for the other? How does this serve the interests of consumers? What exactly is the term "sustainability"? What's it gonna cover or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. The ACM does not deal more flexibly with the competition rules. The ACM provides, through prior communication, clarity on the method of assessment. Mrs De Vries asked how consumers' interests are being dealt with. The Authority Consumer & Market will not launch an independent investigation if all interested stakeholders have been at the table when reaching agreements between companies on sustainability. It then assumes that the interests under the Competition Act are weighted. That is not to say that an investigation cannot be followed up even if a complaint is lodged against one of the companies involved. An investigation will then be started on the basis of the law. The way the ACM handles this is not new. A lot of questions and signals came from companies. They would like to agree on sustainability, but of course they will have to comply with the competition rules. Therefore, as an independent supervisor, the ACM has decided to do so in this way. We are far from it, because it sets its own enforcement priorities. This now applies to the theme of sustainability, but it is not unique. We have had similar communication about general practitioners before, because there were many questions and signals about this too. However, this does not mean that the rules themselves are less strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-2.u3	It is still unclear to me what sustainability means. If the intention is to communicate more clearly to companies, that is always very good. Companies would like to have certainty and clarity in advance, but if you do not indicate exactly what is covered by the sustainability rules and who can or cannot use them, I think you are only making it more uncertain. I would like another response to that. The Minister does not go into it, but I really wonder why it is true for one group, but not for the other group. There are more groups running into the rules of the Competition Act. We believe that this law is important, but we also believe that companies should be treated as equally as possible. I can't get a finger out of it. Why one, but not the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-2.u4	It is not a question of people being annoyed by those rules in themselves, because I agree with Mrs De Vries that this is not a reason to change the rules. The point is that the ACM has found in its independent role that there are relatively many signals and questions from companies that want to make agreements in the context of sustainability. In response, it has been decided to communicate in this way. It has not been a choice of substance to change things on this subject. It was a reaction of the ACM as an independent regulator to what it sees happening in the market. I think it is important to ensure that companies comply with the competition rules, but they should not be unduly deterred from making agreements that may be very good for everyone. So what is the definition of sustainability? To this end, there is simply the usual view of what sustainability is to be done in society. Suppose that, for a moment, I think with Mrs De Vries that companies that have nothing to do with sustainability are thinking 'we call it that way to try to gain an advantage'. They will, of course, run the risk that the ACM will still order independent investigations and appeal to them for compliance with the Competition Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-2.u5	I really wonder if this line will make it clearer for companies. I think people use different definitions of "sustainability." You'll only be an entrepreneur. You have to follow all kinds of rules and in the meantime you can see that another entrepreneur doesn't have to. That seems to measure us with two sizes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-2.u6	Then it is important to establish with each other that entrepreneurs engaged in sustainability will also have to comply with all the rules. So there can't be any difference. There is therefore no question of double standards. It is a matter of clarifying in advance the way enforcement, monitoring is carried out. It is not a question of whether the rules of the game should be respected, because they remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-2.u7	What a hypocritical question from the VVD! After all, it was precisely a VVD minister who had sustainability incorporated into the law, so that the ACM can also test on the basis of sustainability. It was this VVD group that supported all of this. In fact, a motion by the PVV to remove sustainability from the policy rules of the ACM was not supported by the VVD. But that's not what my question is about. My question to the Minister is: how much does he think that consumers can pay maximum extra for sustainability if the importance of sustainability is taken into account by the ACM?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-2.u8	The ACM does not consider the importance of sustainability. The ACM must check whether companies comply with the Competition Act. In this context, the ACM has indicated that when companies agree on sustainability and have everyone at the table, including NGOs and consumer organisations, they will not order an independent investigation. I think that would be wise too, otherwise it would be a waste of capacity. It is equally clear that if there is a complaint, for example from another company that feels disadvantaged, that investigation will still be initiated. So I do not think you can say that this is asking for a higher price for consumers. However, I think you can say that the independent supervisor is trying to create as much clarity as possible for the market players on how to comply with the competition rules on the one hand and, on the other hand, to make socially desirable agreements on sustainability on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-2.u9	I think it is very good that, after a number of years of discussion in different debates on the way in which the ACM and the public interest sometimes clashed, adjustments have been made in this area. My group does have a question. Recently we spoke to a number of Dutch large companies that operate internationally. Those companies are very high up in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. They do a lot of sustainability. They say: in the Netherlands it is well arranged, but in other countries, for example in the United States, one is a little behind and places competition at the top of the list, while other things are involved. Minister Ploumen has also done a lot of work in this area. Can we also promote this way of thinking internationally? Can we consider how agreements can be made to better serve the interests of our Dutch business abroad in terms of sustainability, social rights in the fields of labour and the environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-2.u10	I think that the ministers Ploumen and Camp work together here. While Minister Ploumen is working on sustainability chains, inter alia in the ILO context, so that companies do not compete for cost benefits at the expense of people or the environment, Minister Kamp not only has a legislative proposal in preparation to better shape the balance between sustainability and competition, he is also working in Europe to get more attention to this issue and to come up with an interpretation that will enable companies to get out of the way. I think that is exactly what Mr Vos is asking. So both the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and the Minister for Economic Affairs are working on this in the government relevant to these ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-2.u11	An interesting subject. What Mr Vos brings to me was also in front of me. The concept says that sustainability should actually be the measure of things. We are now pretending that companies that want something sustainable are an exception. However, we also know that the free market does not focus on sustainability, environmental pollution or the depletion of raw materials. How fast do we, as the Netherlands, run in Europe to really achieve this tilting? I welcome what is happening now, but the SP believes that this really needs to be radically tilted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-2.u12	Sure. We have a lot to do. In view of what the Paris agreement will entail, it is very important that companies should be able to take the lead in making sustainability agreements. This is not only in the interests of the Netherlands, but in the interests of the planet. In order to do so, it is necessary to clarify the rules of the game. Competition is also a legitimate interest. Mrs De Vries said this for a reason, because it benefits us as consumers. That is why Minister Kamp is particularly committed to ensuring that, both at national level, through the revision of the relevant directive, but also through the preparation of a legislative proposal, as well as at the European level, the most relevant scale, there is more room for companies that comply with the rules of the game and dare to make progress in making sustainability agreements. I think that is a very legitimate interest. Minister Kamp is very committed to this. If it is correct, it has also been exchanged with the Chamber in previous debates. This applies both to Europe and to the Netherlands.
