ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u1	I propose that, on Tuesday, we also vote on the motions tabled at the human rights briefing and the legislative debate on the Culture and Sport budget lines and moving. At the request of the applicant, I propose that the debate on the message that energy data from more than 2 million households have been stolen be removed from the agenda. I propose, to be added to the agenda of the Chamber, the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Financial Support Groups Second Chamber 2014 and the Rules of Procedure, confidential documents relating to the formation of political groups and certain provisions relating to the setting of maximum speaking time (34567). At the request of the D66 Group, I shall appoint Mr Verhoeven as an alternate instead of Mr Pechtold in the standing committee for internal affairs. I propose to add to the agenda the VAO Literature with the first speaker, Mr Siderius, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u2	I call Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Six months ago, the Chamber decided to hold a majority debate on discrimination and racism. Expressions of racism and discrimination are becoming increasingly frequent and increasingly disgusting, even towards candidate politicians, as we have all seen in the meantime. The debate is currently 49th on the list. GroenLinks would very much like us not to wait another six months for that. We propose that this debate be held before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u4	In the light of the discussion that has taken place over the last few days, we can only wholeheartedly support Mrs Voortman's proposal. I hope that there will be a majority in favour so that we can do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u5	I wholeheartedly support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u6	What is happening is, of course, scandalous. As far as we're concerned, plan as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u7	As far as we are concerned, we also support this debate as soon as possible. I believe that a letter has been asked for by the responsible government representative, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I'd like to have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u8	I think that this President can arrange for us to have the debate before Christmas. I know how difficult that is, especially in view of the agenda, but it is a very important subject. Support for the debate and please the letter for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u9	I agree with the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u10	The expressions we have seen on the Internet are, of course, too disgusting for words. We have also seen them in the direction of the entire PVV supporters; they have been called upon to kill them out. However, as politicians, we must keep our heads down and give you as President the opportunity to plan the debate at a good time. I understand the urge of many people to talk about it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mrs Voortman, you have a majority in favour of raising this debate before Christmas. I propose that the stenogram of this part of the meeting be transferred to the cabinet. I call Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. We have asked written questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs about compensation for damage to residents of Groningen. We would very much like the answers to these questions to come quickly to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u13	I propose that the stenogram of this part of the meeting be transferred to the cabinet. If those questions have not been answered before Tuesday, Mrs Mulder may raise these questions for oral Question Time. I call Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr. Chairman. I am here not only on behalf of the VVD, but also on behalf of the energy spokesmen of the Chamber. It is a good time, because we have listened carefully to the concerns expressed by this President on the agenda. On behalf of the energy spokesmen, I would like to merge the following debates: the debate on pilot drilling in Schiermonnikoog, the debate on leakage from strategic oil reserves, the debate on salt extraction in Twente, the debate on increased groundwater levels due to gas extraction and the debate on the earthquake in Emmen, requested yesterday by Mr Smaling. We would like to merge these debates into one debate, a debate on mining, with Mrs Van Tongeren as the first speaker and Mrs Van Veldhoven as the second speaker. We are also joining together: the debate on future energy policy, the debate on the cost of a cleaner environment and a sustainable economy, and the debate on the Borssele nuclear power plant. We would like to include the letter on the demolition of windmills. These debates together become the debate on future energy policy. We have added the list of speakers. Finally, quite uniquely, on behalf of Mrs Ouwehand of the Animal Party, I may withdraw the debate on harmful chemicals in food.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-5.u15	I'm so happy about that. I think it is extremely good that Members of Parliament have agreed to bring together as many debates as possible and to do justice to all issues by raising them in one debate. So I'm very happy about this. I'll take this into account. Thank you.
