ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u1	Some five speakers have spoken for this debate. Before I give the floor to the first speaker, I would, of course, like to welcome the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an amendment to the Court of Auditors' Act and a legislative proposal to pass on the costs of supervision and disciplinary action for the legal professions. First, the amendment of the Court of Justice's Bailiffs Act. The reason for this bill is the evaluation of the functioning of the Royal Professional Association of Court Bailiffs, the KBvG, by the Van der Winkel Committee. Among other things, the Minister proposes to distinguish between the candidate bailiff who is added to the bailiff in the context of his professional placement and the additional bailiff. The former is still in training, the second is sufficiently skilled after a year's internship, but does not have the ambition to be appointed bailiff. The conditions applicable to them are clarified. In order to prevent the lack of control over so-called freelancers, a legally established maximum of two bailiffs to whom one can be added is also included in this bill. A number of adjustments are also proposed which are important for the proper functioning of the KBvG as a public-law professional organisation. In order to promote the integrity and quality of bailiffs, it is already prohibited for bailiffs to perform duties for legal persons or natural persons with too close links and this bill extends to members and shareholders. This is not prohibited for customers of participants in a bailiff's office. For this purpose, the requirement of independence laid down by this bill is legally enshrined in the Court's Bailiffs Act. I can be quite brief about this. In principle, my group agrees with this bill. Supervision of legal professions, notaries and lawyers, bailiffs and bailiffs should agree as much as possible. The Court of Auditors Act is now lagging behind the law which applies to other legal professions. My group is also in favour of legislation which promotes the quality, integrity and functioning of these professions. My group agrees with most of the proposals on monitoring. The bill opts for an integrated approach to the supervision of bailiffs, as has been recently regulated for notaries. Both financial and non-financial supervision is entrusted to an external supervisor, the Financial Supervision Office. However, I have a point of criticism about dropping the bailiff's nationality requirement. This is replaced by another nationality requirement, namely the nationality of another EU Member State, one of the countries of the European Economic Area (EEA) or Switzerland. The directive does not apply to this office, but the government is going to ensure that people of another nationality, those three I mentioned earlier, can also become bailiffs in the Netherlands. My question is why the Minister wants to take the lead in this matter in the European Union. In the past, the legislator has not included the nationality requirement in the law for nothing. Do these considerations no longer matter, or is it very necessary to change the nationality requirement? Do a lot of bailiffs sit around waiting for this? I also ask this because the Minister himself states in the explanatory statement that the functioning of the bailiffs cannot be separated from the great constitutional importance of the proper performance of the office. That office brings with it certain responsibilities and privileges. The task performed by bailiffs also serves general interests. It is also stated in the explanatory statement that the bailiff is appointed as a public official and exercises public authority in that function. According to the Minister, this should not be hindered or unduly affected by the factual or financial-legal position from which the bailiff carries out his duties. In that context, I refer to the question I just asked. As a follow-up, I would ask whether compliance with a disciplinary measure which would be imposed on the aforementioned non-Dutch nationals from another EU Member State, from one of the countries of the EEA or from Switzerland could be enforced. I can also be brief about the Law on the calculation of costs of supervision and disciplinary law legal appeals. That was decided in Rutte I. The PVV put her signature underneath that. We leave them behind because we ourselves have not found cover. Well, then it's so fancy to leave the signature. I say that we are doing this because this measure has been taken to put public finances in order. That's what we signed up for in Rutte I. Unfortunately, there are still strong targets in all areas of security and justice. In particular, the strong targets for the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office are very much at the heart of my group. We therefore continue to strive not for the task but for the amount of money that goes to it to be adjusted upwards. In this context, my group can therefore agree with the Law on the internalisation of costs of supervision and disciplinary law in legal professions, however much we can understand the critical comments made by third parties. Finally. My group's remaining questions were answered satisfactorily by the Minister in the written round. I can therefore conclude by saying that my group intends to approve the legislative proposal on the Law on the internalisation of costs of supervision and disciplinary proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. I will begin my contribution with the amendment of the Court Bailiff Act in connection with the evaluation of the Royal Professional Association of Court Bailiffs. Afterwards I will talk about the Law on transit costs supervision and disciplinary law legal professions, which I am less positive about. The bailiff is a public official. He has been appointed by the Crown and carries out an important state mission, including the enforcement of judgments. This is very important for legal certainty. It is a legitimate interest that the performance of judgments of judges can be enforced in a proper manner. The bailiff must perform this task independently of the principal because he must also take into account the interests of the debtor, the debtor, who has a payment obligation. This independence has a formal side, namely the discussion about the participation of clients in bailiff offices, and a material side, namely the dependence of clients on tariffs. I would like to comment on both points. First of all, I would like to address the formal aspect of independence. The SP believes that we should be very careful about independence. This, for example, plays a role in the discussion on third party participation. The SP believes that we should not allow clients to have too much influence in bailiff offices. It is therefore a good thing that the government destroyed the amended regulation at the time. Independence must be guaranteed. Any appearance of conflict of interest should be avoided, as the bailiff is not an extension of the client. Not the client should decide what should happen and what should be allowed. According to the government, I believe, the Secretary of State wrote at the time when the documents were written, it was very important that the bailiff was not in any way limited or sent in the manner in which he was performing his duties. A development or any arrangement which undermines this principle is not acceptable, according to the said State Secretary, who thus indicated the limits at that time. Could this perhaps be made more insightful by means of examples? Perhaps the Minister will be able to do so. What developments, for example, are to be expected? I believe that independence should be central and firmly enshrined in the law. It has been made possible to announce a general measure of governance. What, for example, will be dealt with there? I'm just gonna take a side step. Within the notarial community, the rules on the participation of third parties have recently been considerably strengthened. Only people who are allowed to participate in the permitted profession are allowed to participate. Private parties can no longer participate. That is an independence-enhancing measure. Because that's how people reason, when you finger a minority shareholder, you have to take his interests into account. Why wouldn't the bailiff's corps be exactly the same? Can the Minister answer that? Does the Minister also see opportunities to tighten up the rules? This independence also has a different perspective, namely the growing dependence of large clients. We have had competition since the 2001 Court Bailiff Act and this has created a tension field. On the one hand, public service must be conducted neatly and carefully, but on the other hand, there is entrepreneurship. The rates paid by the client to the bailiff have been released and competition is possible. However, the rates of office, the costs to be recovered from the debtor, are fixed. The effects of competition are becoming increasingly evident, especially at times when the pressure on the market is high. Many bailiffs are in financial severe weather; half of the offices would not meet the financial standards drawn up. This development is worrying in itself, but it is reinforced by the behaviour of the government. It is a good starting point that more and more debt collection tasks of the government are being centralized at the CJIB CJIB, but that makes it all the more important to deal with this responsibly. That's not new. It has already been warned in the report Noblessse Oblige. The evaluation committee noted that the main aim of public contractors was to maximise profits, putting the interests of public office at risk. The National Ombudsman recommends that fair remuneration be given per file, and I quote: 'The Ombudsman identifies the danger that if the external bailiff receives no or unreasonably low remuneration for his recovery actions, he should see his compensation'recoup' over the debtor's back.' That's exactly what's happening now. The CJIB is a bulk contractor of great importance. The chosen procurement system actually obliges bailiffs to register for the minimum rate of €0.87. Why don't you let that amount work on you? What can you do for $0.87? However, those bailiffs are forced to do this, because if you don't sign up for this lowest rate, you're out of the game and you're gonna shoot yourself in the foot. We simply cannot afford to do this. The CJIB is too important as a client. If the bailiff has no bargaining power against the purchasing power of the major clients, there is in fact no market functioning or competition at all. I don't mind that given in itself, but I think it's very risky. Door valuers are forced to sign up for the rate of €0.87 and then a draw takes place, because that's how it goes. There will no longer be any consideration of quality or responsible collection. So we get a system in which bailiffs work below cost. This brings with it the risk of practices that you do not want, and which are actually implemented here and there, namely that the costs are sought from the debtor. As an example, I would like to give multi-bank seizures, which I have asked questions about with my colleagues in the Christian Union, but perhaps more examples are conceivable. The fact that the costs are sought from the debtor or that unethical behaviour is more frequent should not even be put at risk. That is why independence is at stake. The bailiff must always be able to say: for my magical legal or social reasons I do not do this. For example, throwing a family with children out on the street. An excessive dependence on large clients puts that independence under pressure. Therefore, there must be decent rates. The government must set the right example. The choice for the lowest price is de facto no cure, no pay. This leads to profit maximization in government. Quality and socially responsible collection have been made totally subordinate to this. I'm sorry about that. A short sidestep. In the 2016 budget, the CJIB will receive €2 in administrative costs per fine. We have already discussed this budget. The bailiff gets €0.87 if the inning fails. That's about the price of a stamp. I might exaggerate a little, but it's just to illustrate that this is really very little. What kind of signal does that send to the government? That a bailiff's effort isn't worth much more than a stamp? Actually, I don't understand it very well. I don't think it's very decent either. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. I do not think this has much to do with quality-based competition. I say it again to the Minister: collecting socially responsible money has its price, which is not free. The government must set an example and set the standard. You can see that large market players, i.e. business, follow the bad example of the government: the CJIB's €0.87. This cannot and cannot be done, and we must therefore set a standard: a fixed rate, a soil. Just like debtors pay a fixed rate, a client should do the same. This prevents risky behavior such as aggressive collection. I think it also leads to higher revenue for the government, because it may lead to more collections if you give people a little more time and apply a little more customization. Maybe the cost is just for the benefit. And if you don't, independence will be compromised. The bailiff should not be given any self-interest in the success of the claim. I therefore believe that we should demand that the government should have a minimum administrative rate on the client's side, in order to curb the pervasive market forces. That's a fair reward. The government shouldn't want a dime in the first place. In any case, a real price means that it cannot be €0.87. There are limits to market forces. Avoid making bailiffs dependent on the collection. In any case, examine what reasonable minimum rates would be. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. Another problem with regard to the CJIB was that the time to collect is getting shorter and shorter. Take for example the problem with DUO. A student can often not pay, but can do so after the study, when income is generated. That won't happen if the bailiffs don't have enough time. That's how the state loses revenue. Can the Minister take a look at this and, for example, talk to the bailiffs about whether you can't generate more revenue if you sometimes take a little more time than the time at the CJIB? I am not alone in the criticism of market forces and competition. A survey shows that most bailiffs are very concerned about this. Let me illustrate a quote: financial air is needed to prevent the abuses. The general view expressed in the survey is that the market forces introduced have gone out and need to be curbed. Clients are increasingly calling the shots. Independence is threatened by large clients, who increasingly make up the service. There's no bargaining room against the purchasing power. There must be a real income in order to guarantee independence, to be able to carry out the independent task in the legal system and to guarantee quality. These are the results of the surveys. I have just explained in my contribution why I agree with that. I'll tell the Minister it's a big deal if you have to hear that from the bailiffs themselves. What's he doing with this signal from the bailiffs themselves? Finally, we have organized it in a certain way in the Netherlands. We have a model in which there is tension between, on the one hand, public office and, on the other hand, entrepreneurship. In addition, we also have municipal bailiffs, tax bailiffs and water authority bailiffs. I think we should ask ourselves what the added value of the system is. The fact that things can be different proves other countries. There are countries where bailiffs have remained a public office, thinking that it is a public task with a social interest. I call for an investigation into the design of our model. I want to have the advantages and disadvantages and experience in other countries in a row, after which we can make a rational choice as to whether the way in which we have it is the best. I'd like to get a reaction to this. As long as we are dealing with the current situation, we must see where we can improve things. I think we can do that with the herd register. That's a promising tool. The bailiff is connected to this, to consult it prior to attachment, and to link it back to the client. The aim is to avoid unnecessary costs and to ensure the unhindered footage. So that is very good, but it is important that more parties join quickly, at least all government bailiffs. Does the Minister intend to encourage other ministries to work on this as soon as possible, so that the tax authorities and the municipalities will join in? Otherwise, several parties and bailiffs will continue to work alongside each other, with the debtor as the duped. The purpose of the register is precisely to clarify the debtor's position. This cannot be done if all public debt and liabilities are not taken into account. I therefore believe that there is a need for greater cooperation and coordination in this area. I'd like a response from the Minister. A few other points from this legislative proposal, first of all the supervision of the profession. The government recognises that this would increase the workload of the Financial Supervision Office. However, during the preparations for the supervision of bailiffs, it will only be clear how this will be implemented, according to the government. Quote: available resources must be used in the most efficient and effective way. The latter is true, of course, but it is a bit of an open door. I note that we are increasingly expecting active and, if necessary, intensive supervision of the notaries and bailiffs. How do we prevent it becoming apparent too late that there would be a shortage of capacity? I'd like to get a reaction to this. There are many different types of complaints: at the bailiff's office itself, at the National Ombudsman, at the professional organisation KBVG and at the Financial Supervision Office. More information can be found on the government website, as well as on the website of the KBVG. A covenant should be concluded between the KBVG and the Financial Supervision Office in order to prevent them from opposing each other or working alongside each other. That seems to me to be very important when I read all of this. The fact that there is a possibility of overlap in work and that there is a need to agree on it raises the question of what this is saying. Is it not possible to separate the powers a little more strictly? Or is this inevitable? Is it going to work out in the end, according to the Minister? What is his expectation based on? Then I'll come to the second bill. I'll be a little shorter on that. I have just spoken about the worrying situation on the market with the bailiffs. This situation is reinforced by the fact that the government itself, as the principal client, is not prepared to pay reasonable rates. The second legislative proposal also proposes to tax the costs of supervision and disciplinary law. This brings with it substantial cost increases, and so it is a question of whether this is the right time for this legislative proposal. In my view, it is also a question of whether the principle that these costs should be taxed is, in principle, correct. The government itself has two arguments to pass on the costs of supervision and disciplinary proceedings. First of all, the argument that the legal professions themselves have the primary advantage of discipline and supervision. On the other hand, the public authorities and society benefit from well-functioning legal professions, not only the bailiffs and notaries themselves, of course. These are public tasks, which the government sets rules for and which it considers important that these tasks are done properly and with integrity. The Minister therefore wants to remain a system leader and to establish rules, conditions and frameworks from that role, in which bailiffs and notaries can carry out their work properly, but then the Minister does not want to pay for it. So it's the lust, but not the burden. What is wrong with the system whereby these professions and the government together bear the costs of discipline and supervision? As a society, we need independent discipline and supervision, without the appearance of conflict of interest. The costs should not be borne by the professions. Quality and care must be guiding. We all have an interest in that. After all, it is about the establishment of our rule of law and the trust that people have in it. I am not saying that professional groups will then be poorly supervised, but I am saying that I think it is unfair and not so well thought out. These additional costs may be passed on by the profession to the clients, for example the users of notary services. Whether quality savings are being made, internal or horizontal supervision, which may increase the number of complaints and hence the costs of supervision. This is also a risk and something we should not want, especially for bailiffs, who are most at risk of getting unfair complaints. That is the consequence of their role. They often don't make themselves popular, but they do play an important role in keeping the economy going and making sure that the government gets its money, and not just the government, by the way. It is therefore a joint responsibility, and that is why, in my view, it is fundamentally wrong to impose the costs on one party. Then there is the second argument put forward by the government in favour of further taxation: it would be an incentive to efficiently organise quality and integrity monitoring. I think that's a strange argument too. So the Minister is actually saying that only as professions should pay for themselves, they will ensure better discipline and supervision, more integrity and fewer complaints. What's that based on? The professions are already suffering from what I call 'rubbish apples', people who cross the line. You can't just take away a sum of money and then call it a little bit more efficient. If it were possible, if we already had the idea that it could be more efficient, then that would be a joint responsibility and so you should first jointly, together with the profession and the supervisor, examine what can be more efficient, so that you are sure to keep the quality. According to the Minister, where can it be more efficient? What is ultimately behind this, as Mrs Helder has also said, is that public finances must be put in order. This is also recognised by the government in the bill. This will save €7 million. That is not difficult either, it simply stands there and it may be, but I do not think it is a very strong argument in substance. It also puts the other arguments in a different light, because I think they have been dragged around a bit. I can't escape that impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u4	Let me ask you a question about these public finances. You say that you do not find a strong argument, but is it an ambition you share?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u6	How does that relate to the fact that you have no cover for your own amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u7	I only have to refer Mr Van Wijngaarden to our counter-budget and our alternative plans. We are not having that debate here, but I can list a series of measures that will also ensure a proper government budget. We are not having this debate here and I do not want to tire the President any further, but I am just passing through the arguments for this bill in principle and in practice, and I note that there is no other good argument. I think it is a good argument that public finances should be put in order, but before doing something that I am not in favour of in principle, I prefer to opt for other measures. That's the answer. Mr. Chairman. The financial impact on bailiffs and notaries in particular is considerable. There are thousands of euros per person. This increases the risk of carelessness or even integrity issues. The government considers the financial consequences to be minor, but I see that differently. Above all, the consequences would be even less if they were spread out to all who benefit from this, namely the approximately 10 million taxpayers. Of course, that includes the legal professionals themselves. Furthermore, in principle, I do not think it is right that you should pay independent judges for the disciplinary proceedings against you. Disciplinary justice is simply a form of justice; the cost of it must be borne by society as a whole. For example, the lawyer must pay for judges who judge lawyers. This leads to an appearance of conflict of interest, and that is undesirable. For this reason, too, the SP does not like this bill. We will not vote in favour of it. I am still trying to see if there is anything we can do through amendments on this point. I don't see the problem with the bill being solved. In my view, there are no good arguments for doing things differently from now on. The bill contains a section that I have particular difficulty with, namely the question of registry law in a complaint about a notary or court bailiff. We also had this discussion when we discussed the Law on Lawyers. The SP considers that we should not introduce a registry right in case of a complaint about a notary or bailiff. I don't think it's right for a complainant to pay for disciplinary justice. After all, disciplinary law is primarily designed to ensure that the rules applicable to the specific profession are enforced. That too is a general interest. It is not appropriate that the complainant should pay for this and therefore face a threshold. That was rather just the cabinet position. Moreover, you should not allow people to choose between one week of messages and lodging a complaint. I think it's that simple. In a good letter, the National Consultation on Social Council work points out two further disadvantages of the Registry Law. Firstly, the number of well-founded complaints will decrease, which I do not think is the intention. Secondly, many people are often at the wrong address, especially when it comes to complaints about bailiffs. They therefore pay €50 to hear that they should be with the creditor and not with the bailiff. In addition, the right of clerks is an undesirable threshold for those who wish to lodge a complaint. Filing a complaint can channel the anger. It is better for the complainant to lodge his complaint with the disciplinary judge than for him to attack the bailiff. That's right. In short, we should not introduce registry law. I have already tabled an amendment on this point. I told you, the SP is not in favour of the Act on the settlement of costs of supervision and disciplinary legal professions. Despite some of the critical questions I have raised, the law that I have discussed in detail can very probably count on my support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. There's a well-known program, I didn't know it, but recently it was called "Pay or Clear." In this program bailiffs are followed in their daily work. That gives an interesting insight into the problems that come together when a bailiff is standing on the sidewalk. It shows how difficult it is for people to get out of debt, but also how difficult it is for the bailiff to do his job. It is therefore a good thing that we are discussing this today. My contribution is divided into three blocks. First of all, I will deal with the calculation of the costs of supervision and disciplinary proceedings. After that, I will deal with the law of the Registry. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the functioning of the supervision of in general. First of all, a few comments on the cost transfer. A good supervision and a good disciplinary law cost money. To close the gaps in the budget of Security and Justice, the government therefore intends to pass on supervision and disciplinary law to the profession of lawyers, notaries and bailiffs. The government itself created these gaps with an unrealistic budget. Is that a good move? Should the aforementioned professions pay for cuts? The Council of State points out that a single reference to inadequate public funding is an insufficient justification for a complete passing on of the costs of disciplinary law. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, At the same time, efforts to make monitoring and complaint procedures more accessible and efficient, as set out in this legislative proposal, are also welcome. Thank you for that. The only question is whether this improvement can also be implemented without shifting the costs to the professions. Why couldn't it be more efficient if the state pays? Why should that only be the case if the profession itself bears the costs? Is it the intention of the legislative proposal, Mr Van Nispen, that this point should also be borne by the professional organisations themselves, in order to ensure that the costs associated with the use of judges in disciplinary proceedings for these professions in future? How does that relate to an independent judiciary? A second point of principle is that bailiffs and notaries perform a public function. A bailiff mainly executes judgments of the judge, in a forced manner, in the name of the King, and thus avoids self-direction. Therefore, the full calculation of the costs would ignore that public interest, which is unmistakably there. It is a pity that the Minister is turning right full and looking for a place in the middle. When it comes to that middle way, you could suggest to notaries that they share the bill. For example, the profession pays the disciplinary law at first instance and the State pays it on appeal. The English people know that the Minister must call that "going Dutch." Is the Minister prepared to do so? One of his predecessors was certainly in the past. I'll be back on the bailiffs. That is the smallest group of legal professions we are talking about today. The professional organisation has about 1,000 members, of which only a part is truly full bailiff. They would soon have to pay an additional €5,000 per bailiff per year. That's a lot more than the tens that lawyers are gonna pay for passing on their disciplinary justice. Does the Minister really think it is reasonable that bailiffs should be taxed so heavily? Why is reference made to the turnover of the profession to justify this, whereas it must be about net income? You still have to take all the costs of staffing, housing and training out of that turnover. All that is critical, especially since bailiffs can only do very little to prevent complaints. It's about forced execution. I can't stress that enough. Doorkeepers are always in the middle of a conflict between the creditor and the debtor. If they do their job well, the creditor will be satisfied, but the question is whether the debtor is. It won't often be. Few people get a bailiff on the sidewalk and think they've received a service. Figures from the professional organisation on disciplinary matters show that well. 92% of the disciplinary complaints lodged are inadmissible, unfounded or insufficiently relevant. More than half of these complaints are not dealt with because it is purely about the mere fact that the bailiff enforces the judgment, in other words that he does his duty. For me, that's where the difference is with the other legal professions, when you compare bailiffs with notaries and lawyers. It is therefore very difficult for bailiffs to avoid complaints. Better information will help very little. After all, people have to speak of their anger, Mr Van Nispen has already mentioned it, and it happens to be directed just at the bailiff, as the personification of the creditor and the evil at that time. Therefore, my amendment not to pass the costs of supervision and disciplinary proceedings on to the court bailiffs to the profession itself. Is the Minister prepared to follow that consideration? Does he recognize that particular relationship between bailiff and debtor? Then I come to my second block, which is about the registry fees. Mr Van Nispen, again, has tabled an amendment on the Registry Law which the Minister intends to introduce for complaints concerning the three professions, namely lawyers, notaries and bailiffs. I will be very brief on this point. I would point out that a €50 ticket to get you justice for minimums is quite a lot. So for complaints about bailiffs, you really shouldn't want to set that up. A lot of people can't spare that money, even though they might get it back later. That part of the amendment in particular therefore has my support. I shall now come to my final comment. The other proposal before us today deals with changes to the bailiff's laws relating to the evaluation of the functioning of the professional organisation. By letter of amendment, the Minister removed a problem for my group by reversing the adjustment of the ministerial obligation. We are grateful for that. I do have a few questions about the combination of supervisory instruments, because at the request of the Chamber, the Minister made a table. That table has become two pages long and lists all the forms of supervision that will soon exist. There are quite a few options: own complaint handling by the bailiff, the National Ombudsman, the professional organisation, the dispute settlement of the professional organisation, the Financial Supervision Office and disciplinary justice. A little much, in my opinion. How will people with complaints find the right point of contact? Is the Minister prepared to keep an eye on whether that is going well and to intervene if necessary? In short, as far as my group is concerned, there is no passing on of the costs to bailiffs and support for Mr Van Nispen's amendment to delete the proposal to introduce registry fees, at least when it comes to complaints against bailiffs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u9	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the proposal to amend the Court of Auditors Act. For the PvdA, it is important for the bailiff to operate independently and not only to defend the creditor's interests but also to pay attention to the debtor, who is sometimes in a difficult situation. The members of the PvdA Group support the government's line, as they want to prevent incentives due to financial or personal interests that may adversely affect the work of the bailiff from being prevented at all times. This line serves the integrity of the profession, as well as the debtor who ultimately has to deal with the bailiff. The independence of the bailiff must be guaranteed. Does the Minister also consider that independence and impartiality are core values and that, when these values are compromised, they require a robust defence? These are even the words of the Minister, but what are we supposed to mean by 'robust'? The bailiff should be aware of the debtor and the bailiff should not be sent to the client's wishes, especially if that would be contrary to the standards of morality and decency. But these are subjective values that are not defined. How are these values tested? The bailiff must always act according to conscience and must not regard his business as a lucrative business. For this, the legal task is too heavy. We have no objection to court bailiffs having the space to deal with price agreements, even with the government, being able to make price agreements, but this observation is followed by a few ifs. The public authorities must be aware of the position of the bailiff in the legal system. The court bailiff may not always charge prices below cost, as this affects care and continuity of office. How do you prevent an office from surrendering to the commercial side of the job and subjugating its official task? In my opinion, Mr Van Nispen had a very valid plea on this very point. He took the CJIB as an example with €0.87 per claim. I can go a long way in his speech on how quality assurance should be countered if you compete so incredibly on price. On the other hand, such low prices are, of course, possible because automation and the huge numbers make it possible to transfer very large amounts of progress at very low cost. Then you'll have some, a percentage of tough cases left, and you'll have some time for that. So I can't share the attitude of "this absolutely never happens." Mr Van Nispen asked for an investigation into the reasonable minimum rates. I think that goes too far, because it is not flexible. I can imagine that with new automation development you might still be able to achieve cost savings. What I find reasonable is to investigate how price formation and quality relate to each other. Can you provide a decent soil of quality for that amount of €0.87 at 10,000, 20,000 or 30,000 claims? I'm happy to support the request for an inquiry into that. To what extent can bailiffs have a role in debt relief? Court bailiffs are in contact with debtors, who sometimes have high debts and cannot find an independent solution. Would it be conceivable, or perhaps even, as far as I am concerned, that the bailiff should also have a signal function? It is precisely the bailiff who sees the problems. He literally sees them when he steps over the threshold. The PvdA welcomes the fact that the government has revised its position on the role of the National Ombudsman. We have asked questions about this. By letter of amendment, the National Ombudsman shall again be given an Ombudsman's role. I want to express my concerns about the Financial Supervision Office. That agency will be assigned tasks, but must seek financial cover within its own organisation. It is a small agency with important supervisory tasks. What does this extension of tasks without financial cover for the exercise of supervision mean? I do not get the impression that it is already clear how these new tasks of the Financial Supervision Office should be carried out and how funding should be shaped. The explanatory statement states: "How to fill this out will become clear during the preparation of the full supervision of the bailiffs." So I ask the Minister to make it clear. In the report, I raised questions about the 'appearance of conflicts of interest' when the bailiff is also the administrator. In his answers, the Secretary of State did not convince me that this was not the case. Between the two positions, which the Secretary of State believes are compatible, there is tension. The bailiff will have to convince the judge that he is not acting as a director for the creditors of the rightholder but for the debtor. The court bailiff's person may be able to separate that strictly, but can the office where the bailiff works do so? And how do you prevent creditors of the office where the bailiff/manager is employed from receiving preferential treatment? I have a few more questions. In 2015, the CJIB will carry out collection work for a number of agencies, such as the UWV, DUO and the CAK. This means that these authorities do not need to use bailiffs in the first instance. Are the costs incurred by debtors for their collection journey at the CJIB as high as the costs for a collection journey handled directly by the bailiff? Did they lose as much of that as they did? I come to the second proposal, namely for the Law on the internalisation of costs of supervision and disciplinary law legal professions. Especially at times when there are cuts within the judicial chains that are likely to affect the citizens seeking justice, it is good that professional groups such as lawyers, notaries and bailiffs also contribute to these cuts. It is more than an important additional advantage that they are given an incentive to pay better attention to their quality and integrity. After all, the better and fairer they do their job, the less complaints and therefore the cheaper it becomes. It is a little too enthusiastic here in my papers; I am not very much in favour of this bill, but I am in favour of it. I do have a few criticisms. Before a disciplinary complaint can be lodged, registration fees must first be paid. I can understand that. This rule is included in order to prevent bagatel complaints. This amounts to €50. However, this may be a problem for the lowest incomes. If you have to live off a welfare allowance, €50 is a lot of money. It's nice that when you get right, the money gets paid back, but that doesn't mean you have to cough it up first. Also because the amount is in line with some of the inabilitys in the ordinary caselaw to pay Registry fees, I do not want to push through this point in the context of this legislative proposal so far that I will delete the registry rights. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to have proper monitoring of whether these registry rights are indeed not too high a threshold for the people with the lowest incomes. If that is the case, will he report it to the Chamber and correct it? In that context, I would like to make one further comment. Previously, the spokesmen of D66 and the SP noted that there are many complaints about bailiffs to which the answer is: you are at the wrong window. Then €50 is paid too much. Is there any way of dealing with complaints where the question of whether the complaint has been lodged at the right point of contact, the question of jurisdiction, can be prior to that €50, or that you can get that €50 to the right authority? Then you pay the €50 to get your complaint dealt with in terms of content and you do not lose your money on purely formal grounds that you have to pay again when you stand at the right window.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u10	Mr Recourt was right to point out that €50 is a lot of money for a number of people and raises a threshold that does not make a complaint, which is undesirable. I understand that, as a government party, you cannot easily support the amendment, even if you agree with its content. I find it difficult for Mr Recourt to propose monitoring it and monitoring how it works. Should the minister keep an eye on how people don't file a complaint? That sounds complicated to me, but in addition to that, you're letting something happen that you don't really want to do. It's a threshold for people with little money. How does Mr Recourt see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u11	You can of course look at the situation before and the situation after the €50. What are the differences and what are the questions? That can be investigated. The investigation can show that a possible justified complaint does not end up where it belongs. The €50 is meant as a threshold, namely to take out bagel cases. If it is also a threshold to stop non-bagatel cases for people who cannot afford it, then it is clearly wrong and we must stop. I'm not convinced of that at the moment. Again, the €50 is also in line with other thresholds built into the system. I myself have too much experience in administrative law not to know that there are a lot of bagatel cases, so I often thought "let's throw that threshold up, please," but right. There's always a balance to be found. I think it can be 50 euros, but once it turns out it can't, it has to be reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u12	Finalizing, Mr Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u13	I'm gonna talk to you about the big deal. We had a discussion earlier about the law of lawyers and then we said that there should be an inadmissibility. I think we can do that. A bullshit complaint can be rejected, so I do not think it is necessary to raise a financial threshold. The point remains that Mr Recourt acknowledges that €50 can be an undesirable amount for a minimum, but does he want to insert it first and then see how things go wrong? I find that difficult. Can Mr Recourt at least argue for a hardness clause for low-income people? I'm just making a move.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u14	That was two questions. One is whether inadmissibility is not an adequate solution. I don't think so, because then you still have to look at the substance of the complaint, assess it and conclude inadmissibility. You better make sure that people who file complaints for glands are discouraged by a relatively low threshold. For people who have little money, it is not a relatively low threshold and €50 is a lot of money. I'm not sure about the hardness clause, because that's how you rig up a whole administration. Besides, you'll get your money back if you're right. Well, then there is that threshold, but it's better to come across because you haven't lost your money. Thinking loudly, I stick to the position to introduce it, but to investigate if it goes wrong. Mr Van Nispen assumes that things are going wrong, not me, but it could be; then we must intervene. With a view to the future, in the written round, we asked questions on how to pass on the costs of supervision and disciplinary law to other professions. For example, the Labour Party applies to BIG registered or accountants the same standard that the government uses to enable the transfer of legal professions. In the first instance, the professional groups themselves benefit from supervision and disciplinary law and the above-mentioned calculation will ensure a more efficient organisation of quality and integrity monitoring within the professional groups themselves. Why, for example, would doctors or accountants not be encouraged to deal with complaints more easily by passing on disciplinary costs to those professions? Why shouldn't these professional groups also have to pay for supervision themselves? We are now creating different systems for comparable surveillance. The answers to the written questions do not convince me. It states that these other professions are organized and composed differently and that it was not agreed in the coalition agreement. But that does not say anything about the possibility and the desirability of making separate legislation for each profession on the payment of the said costs. I have tabled two amendments. I think they speak for themselves. I submitted one myself. I have tabled the other together with Mr Van Wijngaarden; under that amendment my name is a co-signatory. If there are any questions, I have ten seconds to speak. I see that is not the case. Then I think they're clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u15	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the bailiffs, too. It has already been said a few times: bailiffs may not win the popularity prize, but without their commitment judicial judgments would become powerless and self-direction would be encouraged. Doorkeepers are the hands and feet of the rule of law. That is precisely why the quality and integrity of the bailiff must go hand in hand with the lower prices and greater freedom of choice achieved by market forces. Entrepreneurs and government have lost less money on debt collection than before and have been given more freedom of choice. Since 2001, competition between bailiffs has led to tariff differentiation and clients can choose from a national offer rather than only from offices in their location or in their region, as in the past. Some clients, especially larger clients including the government, have thus managed to obtain discounts, performance agreements and a price advantage. However, the role of the bailiff is hybrid. He is an entrepreneur and a civil servant at the same time, as is the notary, for example. The recommendations on better risk-based supervision therefore strongly support the VVD. The lack of control over freelance bailiffs has come to an end with this bill. It can therefore count on the support of the VVD. However, I have tabled an amendment with the PvdA which provides for an opportunity for the Chamber to give its opinion on the General Measure on the independence of the bailiff. The independence of the bailiff from his client is so important that an AMvB must be able to be tested by the Chamber. In addition, this AMvB can have an impact on market forces in the collection industry. The Chamber should also be able to assess whether this influence does not go too far. Among other things, bailiffs themselves and VNO-NCW have expressed the wish to increase the legal status of the so-called minutes of observation. The report of findings means that the bailiff determines a factual situation, for example whether or not a dwelling is inhabited. Doorwaarders and some experts believe that a heavier status for the record of observation would result in less well-naïve discussions in the courtroom and in the resignation of the judiciary. In addition, it can help society to combat address fraud. France and Belgium have already increased the status of the report of findings. Whether it is smart for the Netherlands to take this step is certainly not certain for the VVD. This needs to be carefully examined, in particular because of the implications for the right of evidence. After this step, it would be much more difficult for everyone to refute a report of findings in court. It would also strengthen the process monopoly of bailiffs at the expense of other professions. The potential of this drug against address fraud and for the removal of the police and the judiciary has proved insufficient, but it may be an interesting tool to combat, for example, address, home and mortgage fraud. I would therefore ask the Minister to explore the possible added value and need of this means. Is he willing to do that? Can he also include the experiences in France and Belgium? This may, for example, be involved in the evaluation of the law, but we believe that it is possible to make sensible statements as far as possible about the added value of this instrument. I would like to speak about the passing on of the costs of supervision and disciplinary law. The VVD shares with the government that the legal professions have an interest in adequate preventive and repressive supervision and that they benefit from increased confidence in their services. The less rotten apples you find in an orchard, the greater the confidence in that orchard. For this reason, a contribution may also be requested from the professions themselves. The recalculation of the costs of supervision has already been successfully introduced by the auditors. For example, the full passing on of the costs of disciplinary proceedings also occurs in the case of patent agents. Why should the taxpayer, as is the case now, have to pay for all the supervision costs? The lower the bill for the profession, the higher the bill for the taxpayer. I do not, of course, deny that a high-quality practice of the legal professions not only serves their own economic interest, but also that of a reliable legal system, as has been said several times. However, this is not a reason to impose all the costs on the taxpayer. In addition, we are just being honest and clear about the fact that this bill stems partly from the need to put financial order in place, as deployed under Rutte I. Mrs Helder already indicated very well. Everyone in the Netherlands has been asked a lot by a majority of this Chamber. Everyone has contributed: from entrepreneur to civil servant, from student to retired. This bill now also calls for a contribution from the legal professions. The VVD can support that. However, I would like to dwell on the changed circumstances in the notarial profession, which, fortunately, is still of high quality in the Netherlands. It has become cheaper for Dutch people to go to the notary. In addition, there is a wider range. There are still classic notary offices that can, so to speak, quietly wait for the gravel to grind because their office has top expertise and a good international network, but there are also notaries who compete on the internet mainly on price and who are more of a legal resident with a broader expertise than those of the classical notary based on his monopoly position. In short, the notary is no longer his brother's keeper, but rather his brother's competitor. Against this background, the notary has pointed out that notaries fit to replace each other for a longer period of purely solidarity when a particular notary encounters personal problems. The legally regulated professional organisation KNB therefore wants to be able to set up a consumer guarantee fund from which the costs can be covered for the management of deeds, such as wills and purchase certificates, which are likely to fall under unmanagement. This could protect consumers from loss of, for example, a will or purchase certificate. What is the Minister's position on the KNB's plea? Finally, I have a technical question about the Registry Law in complaint cases, as is provided for in the Law on Lawyers. In that law, failure to comply with this means that a complaint against a particular lawyer does not have a formal termination. It keeps floating around the lawyer in question. In the present law, it does not mean that a complaint is declared inadmissible. Shouldn't registry law be harmonised with this bill? For the sake of clarity, I would like to add that the Dutch Order of Lawyers (NOVA) is an advocate of this. I shall leave the question open for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u16	Of course, I know the VVD as a party that is more supportive of market forces than my party. I would ask Mr Van Wijngaarden whether he recognizes anything of the criticism I have made, but also what a survey of bailiffs reveals, namely that the market forces introduced may have gone a bit crazy because clients increasingly make up the service and there is no real room for negotiation anymore against the purchasing power of major public contractors. Does Mr Van Wijngaarden recognize anything in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u17	A market, certainly a special market like this, which is not an ordinary market, can only function with good market masters. I think the good thing about this bill is that quality and integrity control is strengthened. I think this is an essential precondition. Frankly, I do not think it is up to the Court to comment on whether or not competition in the sector has gone too far. We have supervisors for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u18	Mr Van Nispen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u19	That's a little too easy for me. What do you do when you have introduced a system of market forces and everything shows that the market is under pressure: from the evaluation report to the National Ombudsman and a survey among the bailiffs themselves? You only have to talk to the professional organisation or the association of interests: everyone says that the market is under enormous pressure. I am not only talking about the financial problems that many offices have, but above all about the fact that you cannot collect for €0.87 in a socially responsible way with all the risks involved. I've described it extensively. I can expect the VVD to take a critical look at that, can't I? Since fixed rates have been in place in relation to the debtors, you should also look at them, as Mr Recourt did, whether the system is working properly, or whether there is a need to examine the quality of prices, bottom prices and 'no cure, no pay' formulas that are currently being used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u20	I can already hear Mr Van Nispen conclude that the market is not functioning properly. I'm not ready yet. In any liberalisation, there is pressure on prices. I have already outlined that many parties have benefited from this. There are bailiff offices that are doing well and bailiff offices that aren't doing well. If you bring in a huge reliable customer, like the government, that is of course also very interesting. It brings with it a lot of assignments. So I think it is too soon concluded that it is not working. For every professional group where deregulated and pressure is placed on the rates, you immediately see a discussion about whether it has not gone through. For the time being, I see that many entrepreneurs are taking advantage of the wider freedom of choice and that the costs for them have fallen. I like to make the analogy with the pharmacists. That market has also been liberalised and there have been all kinds of stories about incomes. However, you can still see that there are pharmacists who do very well and pharmacists who do less well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u21	Thank you. This brought an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u22	I call the Minister for his first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u23	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the members of the Chamber for the contributions they have made on both legislative proposals. Let me say first of all that I think it is a very good idea that these two legislative proposals have been clustered. We see that the interlinkage between these legislative proposals is so great that it also helps the debate. I would like to give consideration to the President and to the Registry to bring together the legislative proposals still before the Chamber in one major debate on a whole area. So perhaps we can take great steps forward. That is what I stand for in the justice part of my portfolio, namely the creation of legislation to improve society. That is also the starting point for both legislative proposals before us this evening. First of all, let me say that I had the pleasure of working with bailiffs, notaries and, of course, lawyers in my life before I sat in the benches in this building. I have great respect and appreciation for notaries and bailiffs and the work they do, I say towards the parties involved, who are present in the public gallery. As has rightly been pointed out by a number of Members, they carry out an essential task, which is also part of our rule of law. In this context, we are talking about the revision of the Court of Auditors Act. That bill was necessary, because the original Court of Auditors Act is now more than 15 years old. The office has evolved enormously in practice. The Royal Professional Association of Court Bailiffs has gained enormous experience as a public-law professional organisation. Regulations have been drawn up which lay down professional rules. This has happened in such a way that the KBvG can no longer be considered out of our legal system. In fact, I think a lot of people say, "Oh, wasn't that always as arranged as it has been since 2001?" It is therefore also appropriate that this legislative proposal adds additional safeguards and additional tasks for the professionalism of the KBvG, such as the task of organising quality tests. Care for the quality of the work is included in the general regulation mandate of the ISS. The bill contains the provision to ensure and, where possible, strengthen the quality of bailiffs. An important second pillar is independence. Many Members have rightly expressed their appreciation for this and pointed out how important it is for the bailiff to be independent or to do her work. The bailiff shall perform a post. He must not only take into account the interests of the creditor, but also of the debtor, as a number of Members have rightly pointed out. That is such an important core value that we are now laying it down in the law. The Law on Lawyers and the Law on Notary Affairs have been modernised very recently. Then it is also appropriate that the Court of Justice's Bailiffs Act should be followed. It harmonises the rules for these three professions as much as possible. I will not recite the substance of the legislative proposals, as Mrs Helder has already done, as I am used to her. I appreciate that very much. I would, however, like to answer the questions raised by Members on this bill. Let me start by saying that bailiffs are also just businessmen. That means that bailiffs operate on a market, albeit a special market, as Mr Van Wijngaarden rightly said, because it is a regulated market. Not everyone can just call themselves a bailiff. You have to meet strict requirements and there is also strict supervision. However, it is a market in which there is the freedom to tender or not, even in the case of a tender by the CJIB. You can't do it either. It is quite understandable that this is happening, including for the amounts discussed. If you look at the volume put away by the CJIB, and if you multiply that by an amount of less than one euro, you can still cover a huge fixed cost in your office at least. Then you can make a profit on other activities, if you don't already make a profit on that huge turnover. Let us also not forget that, in addition to carrying out official duties, which are also subject to other prices, bailiffs often operate in the collection market and thus have room to create their own rates in a different way. I think this is good, too. Maybe it's good to put it in perspective for a while. The turnover of the Dutch bailiffs is currently estimated at about 400 million euros. A total additional cost of several million for supervision and disciplinary law is, of course, reasonable in that respect. Furthermore, we have to note that bailiffs are generally employed by companies. In that case, there is no objection whatsoever when the costs of services, supervision and disciplinary law are also passed on to businesses. And I am a little ahead of the second bill, but finally we have to note that most people never have to deal with bailiffs or hire bailiffs. The question then arises as to why people should contribute to the costs of supervision and disciplinary law. So much for my general reaction. I will deal with this later, as well as the individual questions. Mr Van Nispen raised a number of questions in the context of the Court of Justice Bailiff Act, including how the independence of bailiffs is guaranteed in a large tender, such as that of the CJIB. I think the Chamber knows that the CJIB's calls for tenders didn't end well. In the course of interim proceedings, it has been found twice that the tenders had not been properly conducted. That is why there is currently no call for tenders. I understand that the current contracts are going through until new decisions have been taken. It is essential, I say to Mr Van Nispen, that the CJIB has indicated that, of course, the rules and regulations of the CJIB must be complied with. These regulations safeguard the standards of independence. This means, in concrete terms, that the bailiff takes care of a well-balanced client book, while ensuring its independence. The bailiff gives the KBvG an insight into the distribution of sales between its clients. When a client generates more than 15% of the office turnover, the bailiff evaluates his position vis-à-vis this client. This evaluation shall be recorded in writing in the Rules of Procedure of the Agency. In this way, and with all these guarantees, independence is guaranteed, even in the case of large tenders. Mr Recourt asked how to ensure that creditors of the office where the bailiff or the administrator is employed do not receive preferential treatment. The bailiff shall carry out his duties in the context of civil proceedings on behalf of and paid for by the parties to the same civil proceedings and shall be bound solely by the judgments of the court and by the law. He shall act independently and impartially and shall not preside over parties. He must take account of the interests of the client, but also of the interests of the debtor or of other parties concerned. Independence and impartiality are the core values of a bailiff's ministry; I dare even say that they are the crown jewels. This is reflected in the rules of conduct and in the regulations. It is also an essential element of training during vocational training and internship. The amendment to the Court of Auditors Act we are discussing today is to a large extent intended to strengthen compliance with those core values of independence and impartiality. In addition, there are quality audits and full supervision by the Financial Supervision Office. And finally, there is the right of disciplinary action, in which the KBvG has yet another important role to play. Professional integrity shall be ensured by the professional organisation. In this area, the KBvG acts for a reason in the form of a public-law professional organisation with regulatory powers, just as in the case of the lawyer and the notary. The KBvG is well aware of this. After all, an individual bailiff who crosses the line gives a negative signal to the profession. This does not make it possible to favour certain creditors, as this is not in line with the requirements of the court bailiff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u24	Was this the response to my comprehensive story about profit maximization in the government and its dependence on it? If that's the case, I'm a little disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u25	The last point was about Mr Recourt's question, my first point was about Mr Van Nispen's question about how independence in procurement was organised. I just answered that. Mr Van Nispen said that there is a huge dependence on large clients. At first I said: if you don't want such a big client, you shouldn't subscribe to it. After all, that is possible. If no one signs up, such a large client has no way to turn off his work at a bailiff's office. However, that is not the practice. This means that it can nevertheless be very interesting in the existing market, with the consideration I indicated at the beginning, to enter into such a tender in that total market of 400 million. Then you still have to abide by the rules of impartiality and independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u26	In my view, the Minister is now giving a misrepresentation of things, as if you could all decide not to do so. This almost suggests you're making an appointment with each other. I don't think that's allowed either. Furthermore, I did not even draw attention to the fact that the Minister himself has cut the tender procedures of €0.87, with a draw in the end. This has nothing to do with quality or with socially responsible collection. I refer the Minister once again to what is stated in the evaluation report entitled Noblesse obligige, namely that there is a risk of profit maximization among public contractors. The National Ombudsman has said: give a fair reward now, otherwise there is a risk of having to pay back his compensation over the back of the debtor. The Minister does not yet acknowledge the start of the risk that arises, namely that bailiffs are going to make things back to debtors. I find that really remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u27	If that were to happen in a way that is not admissible, it would be contrary to the rules that are imposed on a bailiff. Then supervision and disciplinary law will have to take action against it. I keep telling Mr Van Nispen that the discussion on tariffs is really one that takes place between two market players, that is to say on the one hand the CJIB and on the other hand the bailiffs. If bailiffs felt that the amount was too low, they would not have registered. The fact that they consider that the tender did not comply with the rules is something other than the amount. There was indeed a large number of bailiffs who tendered for that amount. In any case, I understand that this was not the case with regard to acts of office. There are separate rates for this, as Mr Van Nispen knows. But it's registered and that means it's an interesting job. Otherwise, no one would have registered. That freedom is there. I also agree with Mr Van Nispen that you should not make agreements on this, because that would be a cartel. It's a consideration of each individual bailiff. The CIB is about huge assignments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u28	In conclusion: this is of course the VVD, which really approaches it as a pure market, whereas I do not think it is. It's a public office and a public interest. I said what I said about it. I find it disappointing that the Minister's approach to the way the bailiff market was designed. I think that the Minister should think again about what is a desirable situation in this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u29	I have heard Mr Van Nispen say that there should be some sort of minimum rates. I think that this could be done with some enthusiasm, for example in the public gallery. I also see that there is some enthusiasm. There is also movement in the chairs. It's possible. Let us put that at €0.86 and see what happens. Indeed, the SP and the government do not find each other on this point. It's a real market. It is a limited market, because you can only enter that market if you are a bailiff, if you meet all the training requirements and if you meet all the other requirements that we have in that market, I think I am right to say, also because of the point Mr Van Nispen has made. But it is a market where there is freedom to subscribe to it or not. If no one would do it, the government would have to apply a different rate. That goes for every client.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u30	In addition to the minimum rates, Mr Van Nispen has also asked for something else. He asked for an examination of the reasonable minimum rates. I said: let us rephrase that. Let us see how we can examine price formation on the one hand and quality on the other. I do share the concern that in the race for the lowest possible rate the quality will be put under pressure. Of course, quality is also part of passing on to the debtor. Is the Minister prepared to investigate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u31	I'm sure I have that in my papers, but I need to see where. I shall come back to that later in replying to Mr Recourt's questions. In itself, of course, it is always good to remain informed about what is happening in the market. Let me point out, however, that putting pressure on quality standards can never lead to a de facto threat to quality, impartiality and independence. That will be a trade-off that every bailiff has to make for himself if he signs up for a tender. It cannot be the case that commercial considerations undermine the essentials of being a bailiff. I'm also sure this doesn't matter in bailiff's country. I myself had a nice day internship there, thanks to the KBvG, not as Minister, but as MP, and I saw how carefully the bailiffs took their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u32	Mr Recourt, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u33	I am, of course, waiting for the answer, but at this point I see a curious change of roles. The Minister says that the market is beautiful, but the quality is so important that the bailiffs really stick to it. You would say that a genuinely liberal position is necessary, and I am afraid that that is also the reality, that organisations, including bailiffs, should be focused on the financial flow and that this is what is happening in this case. If you're under a lot of pressure and you might go bankrupt, it's very important how much money you make per assignment. Isn't it far too much of an idealist approach to the Minister's SP and PvdA to think that this quality does stand up to the financial incentives?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u34	Let me also answer directly on this point the question raised by Mr Recourt in the debate. How do you prevent that bailiff from subjugating his official duties to the commercial side of his work? Of course, the court bailiff's entrepreneurship is limited. The bailiff is allowed to carry out non-official activities in addition to his official duties, i.e. so-called commercial activities, but only if this does not harm or impede the proper and independent performance of his duties or their standing. Commercial ancillary activities should not take precedence over the fact that the bailiff is in fact no longer available for office. These are all rules that already exist and that touch exactly the point Mr Recourt is talking about. Let me give you an example. If a court bailiff sells information from office practice to a commercial information office, it is detrimental to the trust in the office of the court bailiff and therefore not permitted. Commercial interests can of course play a role in official activities, but the bailiff must also continue to take account of the debtor's interests. The bailiff must therefore always be aware of his official duties first. In carrying out that task, he must never let commercial interests be the decisive factor. He is also bound by laws and regulations for his non-official activities, and he is a "beneficiary' and that is crucially liable to disciplinary action for the work he does on a commercial basis. Mr Van Nispen has asked another question about supervision. Is there a strict separation between the possibilities of complaint and the powers of the KBvG and the BFT? The government believes that this is not possible at the end of the day, because it is precisely the cooperation between these two organisations that ultimately leads to a covering system of supervision. There is overlap, but this is justified by the fact that there are also decent interests. Good and practical cooperation exists between the BFT and the KBvG. The BFT will make use of the results of the quality audits carried out by the KBvG and working arrangements will be set out in a covenant. The government does not consider a strict divorce desirable. After all, we must not allow matters to fall between the ship and the ship. I'd rather have some overlap than a hole on that property. Mr Van Nispen also asked about the workload of the BFT. The good news is that the BFT has, of course, had experience with the full supervision of notaries since 2013. Such monitoring is efficient and effective. We can be very pleased with that. For quality control of bailiffs, the BFT will rely on the experience gained. The starting point is a risk-based supervisory methodology, which allows the BFT's capacity to be used as effectively as possible. Each year, the FTT shall draw up an annual plan and a budget with the resulting costs. Of course, my department consults with the BFT on a regular basis, so that any bottlenecks in the task exercise can be identified in good time. That also answers Mr Van Nispen's question. Mr Recourt also asked for the extension of the tasks of the Financial Supervision Office without any additional financial resources. In a way, I have already answered that. If there is a bottleneck, we are always prepared to discuss it with the BFT. Then I come to Mrs Helder's questions. She asked about the nationality requirements for bailiffs. That has not only been a discussion in the pieces, but also in the bosom of my study. As Mrs Helder knows, the nationality requirement for notaries has been waived under European legislation. Then there was the question of whether we could insist on bailiffs that these rules do not apply to them. A serious risk assessment has been made and it has shown that there is a great risk that the European Court will eventually find that a court bailiff, like a notary, holds a public office and that you cannot claim nationality for that purpose. That is different from that of a judge who believes that this can be done. Society is internationalising and the free movement of services within the European Union must be as free as possible. That is the starting point. This means that in principle you can also establish yourself as a non-Dutch bailiff. However, this means that you have to meet all Dutch requirements. A Bulgarian bailiff cannot automatically open an office in the Netherlands. You have to complete your education in the Netherlands, so you have to stay in the Netherlands for a long time. You also have to pass a language test. The bailiffs have indicated that they wish to broaden the nationality requirement. For this reason, their position is harmonised with that of notaries. There was no objection to that. Mrs Helder also asked whether disciplinary measures could be imposed on non-Dutch citizens. The good news is that once you are a member of the professional body governed by public law, you can always be subject to disciplinary action. This is not a question of nationality. Mr Recourt asked how the professional integrity of the profession is guaranteed and how the values to be exercised by a bailiff are assessed in the course of his duties. In a way, I've already said that. The court bailiff is regulated by the law, but many standards have been developed in regulations of the KBvG. The regulation on the rules of conduct and occupation and the Regulation on quality standards are two examples of this. Compliance with these rules is monitored through quality audits. In the future, the BFT will do this in its entirety. Enforcement then takes place through disciplinary law. Mrs. Swinkels is concerned about the possibility of complaints. There will be separate complaints for citizens outside the court bailiff's own rules. The scheme in the note following the report shows that there is sometimes overlap in this respect. I have already said this to Mr Recourt and Mr Van Nispen. This overlap is justified by the different interests involved in the bailiff's work. The Disputes Committee offers an easily accessible opportunity to resolve a dispute, while other arrangements result from the requirements for good administration or the importance of good professional practice. For the citizen, the overlap of possibilities in practical terms means that he is never at the wrong address. The citizen is actively informed about his possibilities, including by the Ombudsman, but also by the national government.nl and by the KBvG. For the bailiff, this overlap of complaints is not ideal. He may have to defend himself in a number of areas. I realize that, but at the same time it is very important that people who are subjected to the "power" of the bailiff have the opportunity to submit their complaints in a broad sense. Mr Van Nispen asked for examples of the way in which the law has established that the independence of the bailiff remains guaranteed. It's hard to make a list of them in a short time. The essence is that far-reaching financial and administrative interlinkages between a bailiff and a principal could jeopardise the independence of the bailiff in the performance of his duties. Then the impression or appearance may arise that the bailiff is not independent and that there could be a conflict of interest. The legislative proposal therefore provides a general legal framework. Depending on the developments in the regulation for the independence of the IAB, I will consider whether and, if so, to what extent further regulation of that independence is necessary. If rules are laid down at AMvB, they will aim to avoid undesirable financial dependence. Among other things, Mr Van Nispen can consider the standardisation of shareholder relationships or other forms of control. I shall return to Mr Van Nispen's point about the CJIB. At the time, a bandwidth was chosen. There is no system of no cure no pay, as Mr Van Nispen felt. There is a range of €0,87 to €10,33 excluding VAT per case. The maximum amount is based on CJIB's experience and the five organisations for which the CJIB will perform the collection tasks. No average price can be used in a tender request. I have already said that the CJIB is currently reconsidering how best to buy in the bailiff services. One of the elements considered in this context is price formation. I can tell Mr Van Nispen and Mr Recourt that this is being seriously considered. The starting point is that a good balance is sought between, on the one hand, the interests of an efficient and cost-saving government, which benefits the taxpayer, and, on the other hand, a good and fair practice by the bailiffs. I can say to Mr Van Nispen and Mr Recourt that duties are subject to fixed rates. The range of €0,87 to €10,33 therefore does not apply to official acts. There may be some confusion about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u35	The Minister notes that what Mr Van Nispen has asked for and supported by me is being explored in a broader context. Can this be done in such a way that we are informed about the results of that investigation? We like to hear what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u36	I'll take a look around, just like my predecessor used to do. If a decision has been taken by the CJIB on the progress of a possible procurement procedure, it seems to me that we can, of course, share the information on this with the Chamber. When I look around, I find that this can be done. I do not have a deadline for this, but I agree that we will inform the Chamber as soon as it is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u37	A supplementary question from Mr Van Nispen on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u38	That's right. We mean something else. The CJIB is indeed a very large client. That is what I have focused on in my contribution in the first term. I believe that there is a high degree of no cure no pay here, given that almost everyone, because of its high dependence, had to opt for that €0.87. I mentioned this as an example. I know this, luckily, was destroyed by the judge. Now we are going to wait until the CIB, in the light of the previous experience and the idea of profit maximization, comes to a new decision that might be acceptable, and then the Minister informs the Chamber. But that's not what I mean. The Ministry itself must examine what would be a reasonable rate at which the work can be done in a decent manner and taking into account the interests of the debtors. So it is not just about sending the new tender from the CJIB to the Chamber, because we can also look for that tender elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u39	We must be careful now, because it cannot be that the negotiations and the tender for a tender are going through the Lower House, just as the negotiations on a collective agreement for the national police are not going through the Chamber either. The CJIB is currently reconsidering the tender. Mr Van Nispen says that it is a good thing that the tender has failed, but I think that the taxpayer will think differently. It's clear that the judge has spoken of that. This means that there must be a review. I offer to inform the Chamber of the conclusion of the review, including on price formation. So that is different from saying to the Chamber: here are the tender documents, good luck with them. It is a matter of the preceding process. However, it cannot be the case that the CJIB's negotiating position and the competitive position of the CJIB are then laid out in public, thereby reducing the chances of a proper tender and preventing competition on the market. That's a border I can't cross and I can't cross. Otherwise, there's no point in the tender. In addition, we will also have to meet the European requirements for an invitation to tender, regardless of whether Mr Van Nispen likes it or not. Mr Van Nispen asked if the Minister would like to encourage the other departments to join the driving licence as soon as possible. In the project Clustering Rijksincasso participate among others DUO, with the study funding, and the CAK, with the parent contribution. That is a very extensive project. It's about incredibly large amounts of recovery. It takes time. I don't think we should force any business there. Of course, in terms of efficiency, the starting point is to make this national collection as broad as possible. There are two further questions from Mr Recourt, but first I can tell Mr Recourt and Mr Van Nispen that research is being carried out by the WODC on reasonable tariffs for duties. So that's the other element. There's also a profit deposit for the bailiff. I expect the outcome of that study in the spring of 2016 and will inform the Chamber accordingly. The acts of office and the pricing of non-office acts shall be covered by them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u40	I'll make one last attempt. The WODC is in the middle of an investigation. Is it possible to extend that investigation so that it concerns not only official acts but also the other activities of bailiffs? The specific question is how tariffs are fixed in relation to quality assurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u41	I'm really hesitant about that. That actually means that if the result of that study would be x, it would automatically establish that it should be the price for the services. We are not talking about the duties here, but about the commercial activities of a bailiff on whom he is willing to register. I have already said that he must always meet these quality requirements. The price for which he subscribes can never be such that he cannot meet those quality requirements. I have also said that these quality requirements, as well as independence and impartiality, are part of that tender. I really think that Mr Recourt is asking too much on this point, because it intervenes in the freedom to tender.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u42	Mr Recourt, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u43	I speak for myself now, because Mr Van Nispen has a different opinion on this. It's not about minimum rates. Absolutely not, because that would destroy market forces and innovation. That's not the point. What you hear, see and can think of for yourself is that there is tension at those ever falling rates. Doorkeepers say that they depend on it and that they really cannot make ends meet if they want to guarantee a minimum quality. I am more concerned with the question of whether that argument is correct. That's all we're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u44	I have to say it very carefully. The last thing I want is for us to lock up or harm the market by conducting an investigation, to harm the taxpayer or perhaps even to harm the bailiffs. Suppose it comes out that €0.87 is at least reasonable. That would mean that a bailiff would be supposed not to sign up up there anymore. That's unreasonable. So it's working all over the place. Here's what I can do. I know that there is an expert group set up by the CJIB which is to begin, so it will not come to a final conclusion in the short term to work towards that reasonable rate, in order to draw up criteria for that. I could promise that if that expert group comes to a conclusion, the opinion it delivers will be submitted to the KBvG and that I will inform the Court accordingly, as far as possible under the competition rules, of its results. Well, then we'll have a review at the C.B.V.G. Is that a workable solution? At the same time, we still have the WODC's investigation into official acts. The Court is simply informed about this, because there are fewer points of market operation and competitiveness. I see Mr Recourt nodding enthusiastically, Mr President. You can therefore take note of that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u45	We note that commitment. If desired, it can be responded to in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u46	I come to a question from Mr Recourt on debt relief. Is it conceivable that bailiffs will be given a signaling function in the case of debt relief? Court bailiffs are not allowed to perform debt mediation against payment. This would be a mix of interests, especially because they frequently act in debt files for the creditor. This makes it undesirable to make changes to existing legislation and regulations in this respect. They do have an important signaling and referencing task. In the service of a claim, they are, of course, frequently confronted with payment powerlessness and debt problems. Between the KBvG and the national umbrella of debt relief workers, the NVVK, since 2012 there has been a cooperation project VISH, Vijverindex SchuldHelpverlening. As soon as the bailiff has to take an attachment, he shall inform the debtor of whether the debtor has applied for debt relief. If that turns out to be the case, the bailiff returns this to his client who can then decide whether he wishes to continue the collection or make it only in place. In eight to ten cases, the debt collection is suspended, knowing that in most cases this does not make much sense. This means that the debtor will also be given a time-out to put things in order with his debt relief provider, to take stock of the debt and to draw up a repayment plan. It is not the task of the bailiff to perform a reverse signal function. If, in the lawful exercise of his service, he means an attachment, a warning or a subpoena, he will, of course, provide information about it, but he does not have to ensure that all kinds of signals are sent to other bodies. That would be very much in demand from the bailiffs. Mr Van Wijngaarden has asked whether the government is prepared to examine whether it is desirable to increase the legal status of the so-called Minutes. I find that an interesting thought. At the moment, I cannot overlook the pros and cons of his report. That is why, as Mr Van Wijngaarden proposes, I will, together with the bailiffs, the lawyers and judges, identify the advantages and disadvantages of such a report. I'll limit that to the Netherlands. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked if I could just involve the rest of the world or other countries. I'm not gonna do that, if he doesn't mind. He might think so, but I'm not going to. That gives me the opportunity to inform the Chamber about this in the second half of this year. I think that Mr Van Wijngaarden is very much in favour of this. I'd love to, because I think it's an interesting thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u47	I don't mean to sound greedy, but I just mentioned France and Belgium. They're not that far away. The Minister speaks to his colleagues more often than usual these days. However, I would ask him to act at least to inform himself of the positive and negative experiences in these countries in increasing the legal status of that record of observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u48	I think that's going to happen automatically. If I sit around the table with lawyers and judges to talk about this, that information will of course come out. What I'm not gonna do is order an independent agency or a university to do a comparative research. I think that this element is, of course, also taken into account when looking at this example. I am happy to accept Mr Van Wijngaarden's suggestion, hoping that something interesting will come out of it. One amendment has been tabled to the amendment of the Court of Auditors Act No. 34047 and that is the amendment to item No. 11 members of Van Wijngaarden and Recourt. This states that the General Measure of Governance is submitted to both Chambers of the States General. That was already promised, but double is always better. For this reason, I would like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I'm here to pass on costs to disciplinary law. That is where I have to start the discussion on the principle. In a way, I have also said to the bailiffs that the question arises as to who should pay for disciplinary law. Is that the entrepreneurs, the bailiffs, the notaries and the lawyers, or is that the taxpayers? That is a fundamental choice that lies ahead. The question arises as to whether it is reasonable for all taxpayers to pay for this if they all use bailiffs, lawyers and notaries very often. It might be possible, but not all taxpayers use bailiffs, notaries and lawyers. There is only a very limited number of taxpayers who use it. If a large proportion of taxpayers use, for example, lawyers, a large part of them are also financed by the government. The professions themselves have a great interest in ensuring that their quality cannot be affected. They have an interest in this as an organization. That is why it is also a professional body governed by public law. However, they also have a well understood commercial interest in this. They have an interest in the fact that wrong, wrong, ill-functioning bailiffs, notaries and lawyers are excluded from the profession. This means that the government makes the choice of principle, namely that these professions themselves should bear the costs of supervision and disciplinary law. This amounts to a very limited amount, compared to the conversion of the professions concerned. I just said that the joint bailiffs have an approximate turnover of EUR 400 million. The notary has a turnover of between 700 million and 800 million euros. It will not be surprising that the legal profession's turnover is unknown, but it can also be imagined that this turnover is substantial. The cost of legal aid alone amounts to just over 400 million. So all commercial activities of the Dutch lawyer are added to that. As far as the legal profession is concerned, we have, to a large extent, already agreed on this. A majority of the House has agreed to that. The government believes that it is logical that the bailiffs and notaries should take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u49	I already feel that we are not going to agree on this principle. However, I have a very brief question about the Minister's reasoning. He says that it is in the interests of the professions to make as few mistakes as possible. So the fact that notaries and bailiffs are going to have to pay for supervision and disciplinary justice, and that lawyers are going to have to pay for disciplinary justice, gives rise to an incentive that will reduce the amount of rotten apples in between. That is the Minister's reasoning. I ask the Minister: would it be nice for the professional groups if there was ever a notary or bailiff about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u50	No, of course not. Nobody wants a bailiff, a notary or a lawyer to cross the line. But the practice is that it is possible that one is out of line. The practice is that there is an interest in this, including in society, I say to Mr Van Nispen. After all, we all have an interest in the fact that bailiffs, lawyers and notaries do their work well, competently, at a high level and in a number of cases impartially and independently. But the question arises: who should pay the bill for those essential aspects of supervision and disciplinary law? The government chooses to say: it is reasonable to leave that account with the professions themselves. There is also a second incentive in it. In this way, the profession also has an interest in creating as few problems as possible. So it also has a preventive effect. Moreover, if there is a threat of a complaint, there is an interest in ensuring that the complaint is not a very formal complaint, but simply that the matter is resolved properly by means of a dispute settlement procedure or through proper consultation with the parties concerned. That is what I will say to Mr Van Nispen when I talk about the debate on the law of the Registry. So you have more interest in bringing it to a solution in that way, because in the end it will cost you less. I will come back to the costs, because there is a small difference between the calculation of, for example, Mrs Schwinkels' costs and the calculation of the government. I'll explain it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u51	The Minister says: that incentive is needed to ensure that supervision is better designed than it is now. If, however, there is something wrong with supervision at the moment, or if the Minister thinks that the professional groups are not doing well, he can deal with it now, with rules and with talks with the KBvG and the KNB? Why doesn't the Minister do that, and now he's suggesting that a financial incentive would be needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u52	No, I didn't say that at all. It will be difficult if the suggestion is raised that I would have said so. No one has any interest in any mistakes being made by lawyers, notaries and bailiffs. The people themselves who make those mistakes have no interest in this either. We all have an interest in ensuring that this is done in a good way. The question, however, is who should pay for the costs. That's another matter. The government believes that it is reasonable for the professions themselves to bear these costs, taking into account all the factors. For example, a Member of Parliament felt that this should also be regulated by mediation and mediators. This turned out to be the case when an own-initiative proposal was tabled. This line is now being extended by the government to the other professions. This is already the case in the legal profession with regard to supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u53	I have just heard the Minister again, actually for the second time, refer to the turnover figures of the bailiffs in particular. Wouldn't it be far more honest to assume the net income of bailiffs? What would it mean if there were €5,000 a year per bailiff in additional costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u54	Yes, that brings me to the point where I wanted to serve Mrs. Swinkels. The amount of €5,000 mentioned by Mrs Swinkels would be the amount, if you only turn over the total costs of disciplinary law and supervision currently applicable to bailiffs over the bailiffs themselves. In addition to bailiffs, additional candidate bailiffs are members of the KBvG and it is reasonable that the KBvG distributes the costs proportionally among all members through a pay-as-you-go system. That is up to the professional organisation itself. For example, if the costs were to be distributed equally, the amount would be €1,600. That is up to the KBvG, but you can also imagine that a slightly different choice is made. After all, an added candidate-court bailiff has a slightly different status than a bailiff. If you compare that amount with the total turnover, you talk about 400 million sales and €1,600 per member of the KBvG. You can assume that the amount to be paid will be charged to business customers and will be taxed there. How the KBvG does that is entirely up to the KBvG, not the government. We can do that on the basis of turnover. Some bailiffs are very large with a lot of bailiffs, other bailiffs are very small with one or two bailiffs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u55	Is the Minister aware of the fact that these additional costs for supervision and disciplinary law affect bailiffs much harder than for notaries? In the case of bailiffs, the number of members must be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u56	No, because for notaries and bailiffs it amounts to about the same amount, so around €1,500.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u57	I mean the lawyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u58	Yes. There are a lot of lawyers and they have cheaper supervision on balance. That's right. With them the amount will be around €100, I understand. It is indeed a higher amount for bailiffs and notaries, but it can be passed on to the clients. It is up to the KBvG to choose how it can be fairly distributed among its members. This also answers Mr Van Nispen's question that it is possible to raise the rates by the bailiff's costs. I have indicated to Mrs Swinkels that there is a difference with the lawyers, because there are many more lawyers than bailiffs and notaries. I have also explained that the amount of €5,000 does not necessarily have to be right. That depends on the choices made by the KBvG itself. Mr Van Nispen's point of principle has been dealt with. Mrs Swinkels also asked if the Minister was prepared to share the pain with the professions. No, because I wouldn't have done the proposal like that. The reason behind the cost calculation is that the benefit of supervision and disciplinary law lies primarily with professionals, in addition to the importance of society. For this reason, this was included in the government agreement in 2010. Mrs Helder said that this was the reason for the PVV Group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal, and I assume that this is also true of the CDA Group. That brings me to the point of the Registry's rights. That is a debate that Mr Van Nispen and I have also had in the law of law. I think I was in a different capacity at the time. There is great support within the professional groups for the idea of a registry fee being levied, because, as Mr Recourt said, there really is a lot of bagatel cases; cases where people file complaints because it costs nothing and which do not really concern substantive complaints. If your complaint is assigned that amount will be refunded. It is a good thing that we will also apply the situation for accountants and lawyers, where the law of registry already applies, to the other professions. Why would you make a difference? I would point out that for lawyers and auditors, the majority of the Chamber has agreed to this. I do agree, however, that this must of course be looked at, as Mr Recourt and Mr Van Nispen said. Mr Van Nispen has reservations about it in principle. I get that. I'm not gonna convince him. Mr Recourt says: I can live with it, but I think we should be aware of what happens when things go wrong. I don't think that's true. That is not the case with the notaries and the lawyer, but if it were the case, then I would like to say that we will be looking at the report, if Mr Recourt wants to see whether there are very serious problems. I expect that will not be the case, because there are a lot of alternatives. As the costs of disciplinary and supervisory justice are borne themselves, there will be a huge incentive to ensure that it does not come to that. You might say earlier than you are now, I'm going to talk to you to see if we can solve the problem. Very often those problems will be solved by a good conversation. I do agree that we should look at what happens once it has been introduced. The dispute committees, which are very low-threshold ones, partly thanks to the debate in the Chamber on my budget, which I say, for example, in the direction of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, are, of course, also alternatives to lodging a complaint. I also note that a blanket, the profession itself and a supervisor do not have to pay registry fees. In these cases, therefore, there is no threshold at all. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked whether the court's right to disciplinary proceedings against lawyers could not be better collected by the Registrar rather than by the blanket. The answer to that is "no." In fact, Article 46e of the Lawyers Act states that the blanket must collect that. This was incorporated into the law on 1 January 2015. If the law of registry is not paid, the blanket shall not forward the complaint. It was chosen because of the special role of the blanket in disciplinary charges against lawyers. If there is no possibility of collecting the Registry Law, the blanket can always lodge a complaint itself if it considers that something very serious is going on. In the government's view, the collection of the Registry Law by the blanket is more efficient. It prevents complaints from being forwarded first and then the Registrar from taking action again. As far as we are concerned, therefore, there is no reason to change that at the moment. Of course, I regularly speak with the Dutch order of lawyers to see if practical problems arise from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u59	I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to inform the Chamber of the results of this. We do understand that this life is enormous within the legal profession. There are all kinds of lawyers who are left with open, floating complaints. I would therefore very much appreciate it if we could be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u60	There are two possibilities, actually three. The complaint shall be lodged and no fee shall be paid. In many cases this will achieve what is intended by the Registry Law and with which the Chamber, including the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has agreed. After all, it acts as a threshold for dealing with complaints. So there is really no reason to have that investigated or debated, because that is exactly what we want. We do not want an organization, of any order; bailiffs, notaries or lawyers, to be confronted with complaints filed by people who say: I lodge a complaint, but I don't pay that €50 and I'll see what happens. We must want these complaints to go away. Serious complaints must of course be heard. If the blanket sees those complaints and finds that they have not been paid, then he cannot forward them. He can say himself: wait a minute, this is a very serious complaint. Then he can take over the complaint himself. In that case, no registry fee is due either. That way it's settled. If it is a serious complaint that has not been paid for, then the blanket itself can take those steps. So I do not know very well what Mr Van Wijngaarden would like to hear from me. The scheme works this way. I could only ask the blankets whether they are doing the same and I could then inform Mr Van Wijngaard about that. The question to the blankets is then: do you look, before you make a complaint because it has not been paid for, whether it is a serious complaint or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u61	We would appreciate it if that were indeed verified and we were informed of what would come out of it. Otherwise there will be a fog on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u62	I know the position of the Dutch Bar Association. Mr Van Wijngaarden is right to say that this must be taken into account. I will speak with the NSA and the Councils of disciplines to review the disciplinary procedure as a whole and to see whether there is any need to change it. I will take this point into account and will inform the Chamber of the outcome of that discussion. Mrs Swinkels asked how the safeguards for independence of disciplinary law were regulated in the case of the passing on of duties. We have also debated this in the process of dealing with the Law on Lawyers. There was the same concern. We then explained that the budgets of supervision and disciplinary law are determined by the professional groups themselves. In principle, there can be the wrong incentive in creating "the less it costs, the better it is for us." I do not expect this to happen, because I know the organisations quite differently, but the Minister finally sets the budget. With regard to financial conditions, a final test has been set up in all the Minister's laws. This also means that the Minister ultimately guarantees that there are sufficient financial resources for the proper functioning of supervision and disciplinary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u63	I have a question on the point that preceded this, following on from the commitment made to Mr Van Wijngaarden to review the supervision of the legal profession. I would remind the Minister whether it is also intended that the judges, for example in the Discipline Court, who judge complaints against lawyers, should now be paid by the profession. That is one of the questions that I had put in the first term and which may have escaped the attention of the Minister. But now that I have heard the Minister speak about the supervision, which he will still be examining, I ask him whether he will undertake in that context to give serious consideration to whether it is intended that the judges should also be paid by the lawyers as a profession when it comes to assessing complaints against lawyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u64	I'm gonna have to browse. I thought for myself now I'm on slippery ice that this is already the case. I shall come back to this question in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Swinkels asked questions about aggression against bailiffs. There is absolutely verbal aggression and violence, even in the performance of the task of the bailiff, particularly in the case of the service of judicial documents. I've been there myself. When I was internship for one day, I was present at a number of promises to evacuate rented homes for which no payment was made. Just at the announcement, not even at the actual evacuation, those were very complicated conversations. It is a good thing that the KBvG supports its members on this point in declarations of aggression and, if necessary, in Article 12 proceedings, on the basis of Article 12 Criminal Procedure. It was an issue, but fortunately that is no longer the case, that the strong arm can play a role in the evacuations and in seizures and thus guarantee the security of the bailiffs. Fortunately, due to good consultation on the collective agreement of the national police, it is no longer the case that it has ceased its duties. I admit immediately that, for bailiffs too, there is such a risk in the exercise of their profession. I would also like to say that this is obviously unacceptable. The bailiffs have a public task. They cannot say that they do not feel like it or that they do not dare. They just have to do that and they do it very well. They should not be confronted with aggression and violence. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked if I would be prepared to examine the usefulness of setting up a consumer guarantee fund, together with the Royal Notarial Professional Organisation. What's in the way here? I would be happy to examine the usefulness of setting up a guarantee fund with the KNB. In fact, there is no doubt in my mind about the usefulness of such a fund. I've already notified that to the KNB. I will work with the KNB to see how this can be arranged. Mr Recourt asked why doctors and auditors should not pay for supervision either. I think there's a lot to say for this. The principle applies to them too, but that is a point which must be discussed with the professional groups concerned by the directors concerned. I'm not going to give an opinion on that. Another point from the CDA Group. Members of the CDA Group have asked during the written preparation whether it is correct that the Dutch Bar Association still has a claim against my department in respect of certain apple cases. It would be a cost of dealing with apple cases initiated by citizens. The written documents replied that no claim was known. It is good to report that I am currently in agreement with the order, because it is now known that there is such a claim. I come to the amendments tabled by legislative proposal 34145 on the transfer of costs for supervision and disciplinary law in legal professions. That's some of them. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 9 member of the PvdA Group Recourt. He proposed that an explicit basis be laid down in the law for the regulation on the method of passing on to members. In itself, I believe that the legislative proposal provides a sufficient basis for the professional groups to lay down rules for passing on to Members. That is the starting point of the bill. That would not require the explicit basis, but I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. The Court may decide whether an additional inclusion of that basis is necessary. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u65	No, you've already had it. We're at No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u66	I have an amendment to part No. 11 by Mrs Swinkels to ensure that costs of supervision and disciplinary proceedings are not passed on to bailiffs. I am told that this amendment has been replaced by the amendment on item No. 14. I'll deal with that later. The amendment in part No. 12 belongs to Mr Van Nispen. It proposes to delete the Registry Law from the current Law on Lawyers, the Court of Auditors and the Law on Notarial Affairs. I have already said that I cannot, of course, agree with that. I do remember very well 2 April 2014, the day that Mr Van Nispen made his maiden speech in the Chamber and discussed the law of registry and disciplinary law with the then Secretary of State of V & J. He also received a bag of tomatoes from one of the members of the Chamber. I shared and still share the arguments put forward by the then Secretary of State for Registry Law. I've just discussed them extensively with the Chamber. I therefore reject the amendment to item No. 12 by Mr Van Nispen. I come to the amendment to item No. 13 by Mr Van Nispen. In this amendment, he asked for the costs of passing on disciplinary proceedings to be removed from the law. That's one of the essentials of the bill. The amendment affects the substance of the legislative proposal. I therefore reject this amendment. Despite the comments made by Mr Van Nispen, there is really no financial coverage in the amendment. For that reason, too, I cannot support it. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 14. That was first of all the amendment to item No. 11 from Mrs. Swinkels. The amendment calls for the same thing, but for the bailiffs. It is proposed that costs and disciplinary proceedings should not be passed on to bailiffs. This amendment also affects the substance of the legislative proposal. There is no financial coverage for this in the bill. This means that I must also discourage this amendment. Let me make one final comment. I intend to issue, before the vote, a letter of amendment to the legislative proposal on the processing of supervisory costs and disciplinary law on legal professions, number 34145. That will be the second letter of amendment to the bill. It will include some technical adjustments. This letter of amendment also contains some editorial improvements which facilitate readability. I intend to present this letter of amendment by next Monday at the latest, so that the Chamber can take note of it before the votes. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u67	I see that this raises a question for Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u68	There's one more point left. These actions are manifestly unfounded or inadmissible, especially in the case of bailiffs. People are angry about a claim and submit a complaint, but they are at the wrong window. I heard the Minister say that, as with the lawyer, we do not want to deal with this in an official complaint, but rather to deal with it much earlier. The lawyer's having a blanket interview. That is very effective, because then a lot of complaints will be resolved in a good conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u69	And what is your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u70	The question is, how are we going to do that with the bailiffs? How are we going to resolve this complaint at an early stage through a conversation in which we remind people of it, without them immediately losing that €50?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u71	I need to find out. I shall come back to that in the second term. I can now answer Mrs Swinkels' question, while I have thought about it. She asked if I could examine whether judges in disciplinary tribunals are paid by order or by the State. Let me point out that I don't want to change anything in the law. Now it is settled that the attorney-members are paid by the Dutch Order of Lawyers and the crown members by the State. These funding flows should remain the same in relation to the independence of disciplinary justice. The bill goes through the Minister to the Dutch Order of Lawyers. I'm not gonna change anything in the legislation right now. That's what I'm ready for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u72	Thank you very much. This brought an end to the government's first term of office. I note that there is a need for a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u73	Mr. Chairman. I have said a lot in the first term and I will not repeat myself, because that is not fun for anyone. Let me now begin with the Law on the calculation of costs of supervision and disciplinary law legal professions, because I am not enthusiastic about that. In the meantime, the amendment to item No. 13 submitted. This does not impose any burden on the costs of disciplinary proceedings, since appeals do not have to be paid for themselves by the judge who assesses them. Can I give you an example of why that might be undesirable? There could be wrong incentives. In the lawyer's case, the blanket must consider whether an appeal is brought against an imposed measure of discipline. The blanket can say that he does not consider the measure of discipline enough, that it should actually have been heavier, that it is insufficient. He may appeal against this. So if the blanket does that, it's gonna cost the profession money. That consideration should not play any part at all. That's an example of a wrong incentive. That's why we shouldn't. That is why I call on my colleagues to support the amendment on item No. 13. Furthermore, the explanatory statement speaks for itself. The fact that I tabled this amendment does not mean that I am in favour of passing on supervision, but I have been sufficiently clear on this. I do not see the Minister's argument that it could be more efficient and that this bill would therefore be a good idea. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas one of the arguments for legislative proposal 34145 is that passing on the costs of disciplinary and judicial supervision to legal professions leads to a more efficient system, but it is not clear what this is based on;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the legislative proposal for a review of the costs of supervision and disciplinary law (34145) and to examine, together with the legal professions and supervisors, whether and how the disciplinary and supervisory system should be set up more efficiently,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34047-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u74	Then I will proceed with the amendment of the Court of Auditors Act. I have expressed my deep concerns about the market, in particular about the increased dependence of public contractors. The Minister clearly sees this differently, because he says, among other things, that the fact that bailiffs register at a rate of €0.87 shows that it works. The market works, says the liberal cheering. It will not surprise the Minister that the SP really sees that differently. It is precisely because of the dependence of the major clients that there is no room for negotiation against the purchasing power of, for example, the Central Judicial Collection Agency. The SP says that collecting socially responsible money has its price. The SP actually wants minimum rates, so a fair reward for the bailiff. I don't think we're gonna figure that out tonight. That is why we want this independent investigation, which is almost where we come together. Mr Recourt will be tabling a motion on that point shortly, including on my behalf. I therefore do not need to table the motion on this subject which I myself have prepared. However, I do have a point about the herd register. I heard the Minister say that the tax bailiff or city bailiff will eventually also be affiliated to the seizure register. At least the Minister talked about a state-wide collection vision and everything, including the ministries, should be associated with that seizure register. I'm going to file a motion on that just to be sure. In the Minister's second term, I will then find out whether it is necessary to maintain that motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the purpose of the herd register is to prevent unnecessary costs and ensure the herd-free foot;]] [[Whereas public bailiffs are not members of the herd register which does not benefit cooperation and coordination for that purpose;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, as soon as possible, that all government bailiffs still join the attachment register,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34047-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u75	Now my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the court bailiff in the Netherlands is both an entrepreneur and a public official which can create the necessary tension;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the bailiffs, there are government bailiffs which do not promote cooperation and unity;]] [[noting that the bailiff remained a public office in a number of other countries thinking that it was a public task with a social interest;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out comparative legal investigations into the establishment of "the market" for bailiffs, to outline the pros and cons and to assess whether the Dutch situation has been the best choice and to inform the Court of Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34047-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u76	Mr. Chairman. I would just like to point out that the Minister has referred to the special position of bailiffs. In doing so, I have heard him subscribe to the core value of their independence as public ministers. The Minister also expressed an understanding of the "sandwich position" which the bailiff holds between the principal and the debtor, particularly in the case of complaints about the bailiff. That is why I regret that the Minister does not follow the argument underlying the amendment I tabled. D66 considers that this particular position should not lead to the passing on of the costs to the bailiffs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u77	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party will support both legislative proposals. We have, however, made a few critical comments. They dealt with price formation, the quality of the work of the bailiffs and their access to complaints. I'm waiting for one more answer, which comes in the second term. On that first point, I will table the next motion together with Mr Van Nispen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the WODC is currently investigating, inter alia, the price and quality of official acts by court bailiffs;]] [[calls on the Government to extend this investigation to other acts of bailiffs or to have that investigation carried out by other independent experts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Recourt and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34145-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u78	I would like to explain this briefly. We are not specifically concerned here with the CJIB, where quality is taken into account in the price negotiations. That's all fine. At least, we do not want to enter into it; afterward we will see if that is okay. We are talking about a general examination of price versus quality, and by independent experts, not by experts who are accountable to the CJIB. So this is not about the CJIB and we do not want this to happen under the responsibility of the CJIB. In doing so, I have sufficiently explained the motion and I am ready. I thank the Minister for his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u79	I note that Mr Van Wijngaarden is not using his second term. This brought an end to the second term of the Chamber. The Minister would like a four-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u80	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me say that I am testing a broad support for the amendment of the Court of Auditors Act. I think this is also important, because in a number of essential areas this law supports the quality and position of the bailiff, but also the quality and position of the KBvG. I am very pleased that this bill will be broadly supported, even by the SP Group, despite the critical sounds of that side. It is an important support in the back of the Dutch bailiffs, who have to do their work with exceptional dedication and very occasionally, as I have done with Mrs Swinkels, with courage. I'm here to talk about the second bill. I can tell that there is a majority in the Chamber for this bill. I take note of the fact that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats does not agree with the principle on a number of points. I regret that, because I did my best to convince the SP Group. I hope that the D66 Group will support the proposal, taking into account everything and also the fact that it is important that all professional groups should be treated in the same way, even though I could not go along with the amendments that have been tabled. Mr Recourt said: what if someone filed a complaint and had to pay the fee of €50 but was not at the right place? What happens then? I think the answer to that is that you are always at the right place with the supervisor and the disciplinary judge. It is responsible for everything. The complaint can, of course, eventually be dismissed as unfounded, and then you lose that €50. If the complaint is justified, you'll get the money back. My perception is that the disciplinary judge and the supervisor are always competent to hear all complaints. I do not think that Mr Recourt's question is relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u81	Formally, it will be true, but of course, what matters most is that people stand up against the claim itself, in the vein of "I've already paid" or "I can't pay." It is not about the actions of the bailiff at all, but about the underlying claim and the underlying dispute. Isn't that quick to make it clear that it's not gonna work out at all? Inform the people and have them initiate civil proceedings or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u82	The purpose of the information is not to make a complaint, certainly not on this basis, which is clearly an incorrect way of lodging a complaint. If a bailiff makes a debt collection in the lawful exercise of his office, you cannot complain against him doing so. Such a complaint will indeed be unfounded. It must be made very clear in the information that, because of a substantive objection to the claim, people do not lodge a complaint with the bailiff. This information has already been widely used, but perhaps it could be looked at again. I think this is essential. If people do it, it's the responsibility of the people themselves. I agree with Mr Recourt that information must be correct. It must be clear to people that this is not the intention. I'll get to the motions now. Mr Van Nispen has tabled a motion. 12, the essence of which is to withdraw the bill. Given the impression I have that the 34145 bill can count on a majority of your Chamber, I will not do so. Moreover, I do not agree with the substance of the motion. I therefore advise against its adoption. In the Van Nispen motion in part No. 13 The government is invited to ensure that the government bailiffs join the herd register. As of 1 December last year, the herd register was entered. The government is excited about this. The KBvG has just begun to gain experience with the herd register. I think it would be wise to consider afterwards whether it would be wise for the other bailiffs to join in. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment will be leading the way, because these are income-political aspects. It may well be that this need arises in the longer term, but we think that experience with the register should first be gained. I reject the motion because it states that the government should take care of it as soon as possible. That is not wise given the short existence of the herd register. So I'm deceiving the motion. In the Van Nispen motion in part No. 14 is requested to carry out a comparative legal investigation. The evaluation study on the basis of this draft law does not give rise to the conclusion that the office of bailiff should be set up differently. The law requires regular evaluation of the functioning of the KBvG. As a result, the government keeps its finger on the wrist enough. There is no reason to carry out the comparative legal examination of the organisation of the market requested by Mr Van Nispen. For that reason, I advise against this motion. In their motion in part No. 15 Members Recourt and Van Nispen note that the WODC is conducting research. That's right; that's what I've been telling you. I have also indicated that there is an expert group active. In the motion, the government is requested to extend the investigation, either by the WODC or by other independent experts, to the other acts of bailiffs, say the commercial company of the bailiffs. Given my commitment to the expert group and the scope that the motion offers to involve independent experts who do not concern the WODC, I leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber. I would like to thank the members of the various parties who have expressed their support, and I also assume that, given the Rutte I coalition agreement, the CDA Group will also support the legislative proposal Law on the calculation of costs of supervision and disciplinary law in legal professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-11.u83	The Minister has indicated that a second letter of amendment will be made to the legislative proposal Act on the calculation of costs of supervision and disciplinary law in legal professions (34145). It will be sent to the Chamber next Monday. I propose that both legislative proposals be voted on next Tuesday and that the Chamber agree. I would like to thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed this debate.
