ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the members of the temporary committee. I would also like to welcome the members of the staff who assisted the committee in drawing up the report. The staff members Mrs Harpe, Mrs Verbruggen-Groot and Mr Loeffen are present in Box K. I inform the Chamber that, unfortunately, because of personal circumstances, the committee clerk, Mr Roovers, cannot be present today. Today we are holding the first term of office. Next week the committee will address the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, a word of thanks to the members of the committee and her staff for the work they have done. Thinking about the instruments for this Parliament, at least for this Chamber of our Parliament, deserves praise. This is particularly true when it comes to preparing a variant for the toughest means of control available to this Chamber, namely the right of inquiry. Proposals to strengthen the position of this Chamber can always count on a very willing ear from the VVD Group. The only question is to what extent the present proposal actually strengthens this position. I have a number of questions about this. Today we are discussing the proposal for a new parliamentary instrument, first of all, namely parliamentary interrogation. A closer look, however, shows that it may not be as new as it seems at first glance. A parliamentary interrogation committee is simply a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Anything the temporary committee proposes is already possible. That is why I would like to begin by asking the question of the usefulness and necessity of this 'new instrument', at least as it has been described. The committee writes: "To give practical form to the application of existing legislation in the context of parliamentary interrogation, the committee makes a concrete proposal to the Chamber for a temporary protocol parliamentary interrogation." She further writes: "Although the existing legal framework is used, the parliamentary interrogation can be seen as a new instrument of the Chamber in view of the nature, design and scope of the investigation. It can be positioned between, on the one hand, the regular hearing (or round table) in which third parties participate on a voluntary basis and, on the other hand, the usual way in which parliamentary surveys are organised, including extensive file examination and usually long lead time." The parliamentary questioning must therefore be kept between a round table and a parliamentary survey. The number of hearings and round tables, like the use of almost all other parliamentary instruments, has increased considerably recently. In 2015, almost three times as many hearings and round tables were held as in 2012, i.e. 56 versus 141. Can the committee say how many of these hearings and round tables would have been converted into a parliamentary questioning? Can the committee also give an overview of those who have refused to attend a hearing or a round table in recent years? Mr Van Raak stated in a television broadcast that this is happening all the time. So I trust that he has sufficient examples in place. It can be seen that virtually all parliamentary instruments are subject to inflation. Oral questions are rarely so urgent that, if they are not allocated, the petitioner converts them into written questions. There are so many written questions that the answers are hardly read anymore if they arrive on time. Motions are now submitted almost per kilo, with the result that it is gradually more effective to send the government a postcard if you want to achieve something. The parliamentary survey seemed to escape this trend. She "looked" that way, because in the last six years we've had three more. The author of the motion on which this proposal is based, Mr Segers, stated on 3 February in a broadcast by Nieuwsuur: "Parliamentary interrogation is a means that can be used much more often and much more quickly'. In the same broadcast, Mr Van Raak stated that it is his experience that new instruments of the Chamber are often used. If we start the parliamentary inquiry now with the frequency with which round tables are being held, do we not run the risk of having the same fate as the other instruments I have just mentioned? The investigation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry often coincides with investigations by other bodies, such as the EU, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the FIOD and the Tax Administration. If the Chamber is looking for specific information from companies or individuals, has it no longer been able to obtain documents? But according to the protocol, the parliamentary interrogation committee is not allowed to do so. This committee must first return to the Chamber. It is even more important to note that witnesses in interrogation of a parliamentary interrogation committee cannot be prosecuted for the statements they make under oath, because that is contrary to the right not to cooperate in their own condemnation, as included in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. So people will no longer be allowed to be prosecuted much more often. As a result, different legal proceedings will be obstructed. Has the committee investigated this risk? Does the committee agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that this might achieve the opposite of what the parliamentary questioning is about? Is the committee prepared to elaborate on the relationship between parliamentary questioning and Article 6 of the ECHR? In this light, has the committee examined the extensive case law of the European Court of Human Rights in, for example, the D. case against Austria? If not, can the committee still do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u3	First of all, I think that Mr Taverne does not do justice to the role and instruments of this Chamber, such as the oral questions, the written questions and the motions. Indeed, their number is increasing over time, but the argument that you better send the government a postcard than you can file a motion is really far from my point of view. He really doesn't do justice to what we're doing here. Now to the content of the argument. Mr Taverne asked a number of questions. That is possible, but does he recognise that there is a gap between the voluntary appearance at the round table as we know it now and the deep and long parliamentary survey that we now have? Those are two extremes, where there's nothing in between. The committee has now put forward proposals for this. Does Mr. Taverne recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u4	I do not know if I can acknowledge that, because I do not know how often people who are invited refuse to take part in a round table. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u5	That was not my question, but I must now seize the opportunity to ask a follow-up question. I do not quite understand what the VVD Group is afraid of. The Chamber itself is present when it is decided to set up a parliamentary interrogation. And, as I say, we do not have to do this three times a week. In my view, the committee also writes that we should be a little cautious with this, precisely in order to prevent the substance from being eroded. It is quite a matter of a means! So I do not really understand where Mr Taverne's objections are. Questions may be asked, but what exactly is the opinion of the VVD Group? Can Mr Taverne state his objections and explain where his fundamental questions come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u6	I have included some of my objections in the questions I have put. A number of questions will also follow. In my view, Mr Van Nispen and I share the analysis that parliamentary instruments are used much more often. Maybe he even agrees with me that they sometimes lose their strength. Now, my questions arise from the consideration that the last means which so far seem to be able to evade that process could proceed in the same way. I have quoted Mr Segers, the author of the motion on which this investigation was based. He said that it is intended to be used much more often. I have quoted Mr Van Raak, who also provides for this. I think that makes a lot of sense, and I get that. It's also a bit the intention, because otherwise you don't have to come up with something new. However, I think that we should take due account of the possible consequences for the means of parliamentary inquiry. If it leads to further erosion, I think that's a risk we need to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u7	I'm always for good thinking, but I think it's the other way around. If you want to be sparing on the parliamentary survey, you have to avoid using it too quickly. That's exactly why you need the parliamentary interrogation. For example, if someone does not want to appear on a round table, you do not need to resort to the long-term, deep-seated, intensive parliamentary survey. This way you avoid that this medicine is subject to inflation. Therefore, if the VVD wants to be sparing on the parliamentary survey, I hope for a little more enthusiasm for the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u8	I get that. The point is just that that's exactly where it wrings that it's not really a new instrument. The right of inquiry is used, whereby we make the agreement with ourselves to do so in the lightest form. I would find Mr Van Nispen's arguments more relevant if we were to introduce a new instrument with its own legal basis. But this is about the right of inquiry, where we agree on how to use it. This has no legal force and does not protect the right of inquiry that we now know from erosion. That is the crux of the VVD Group. I'll follow. The parliamentary survey is an ultimatum remedium; I am actually replying again to Mr Van Nispen's question. Does the committee share that view? What, according to the committee, is the purpose of the parliamentary questioning? If the goal is to get detailed information if a minister repeatedly refuses to share information, isn't the use of the heaviest agent shooting a cannon on a mosquito? How does the committee read Article 68 of the Constitution in this respect? Does the committee agree with the VVD that the Chamber should simply call the Minister to the Chamber, after which she can table a motion? If that motion is passed, the Minister must implement it. So why a parliamentary interrogation committee? A witness may, in the course of a parliamentary questioning, send a written statement prior to a witness hearing. What is the status of such a written statement? When the Parliamentary Survey Act was adopted in 2008, the proposers considered that all provisions relating to the questioning of witnesses and experts should, from the point of view of legal certainty, be laid down in the law itself, and not in the Rules of Procedure, let alone in a temporary protocol without legal status. Can the committee comment on this further? Not only is the Court's most serious instrument potentially being undermined, but also the ministerial responsibility could be put under pressure if this proposal were to be implemented. The committee writes about this in the report. The Parliamentary Survey Act, the Parliamentary Survey Scheme, other means of investigation and the Protocol contain "sufficient safeguards in the decision-making process that contribute to a careful consideration of usefulness and necessity. A real erosion of ministerial responsibility, in so far as this would already be the case in theory, is considered very unlikely in practice." On what basis does the committee base this firm opinion? Has the board consulted directors? If not, is the committee prepared to do so? Mr Segers and Mr Van Raak foresee that the parliamentary questioning will often be used, as witnessed by their earlier statements. However, it is proposed to evaluate only after four years. Why wait so long when it is foreseen that it will be used so often? Is the committee prepared, for example, to evaluate after two years? Finally. In the review of the Parliamentary Survey Act, the Council of State in 2006 advised negatively on the idea of setting up a mechanism for other investigations alongside the current parliamentary survey. In fact, that's exactly what's happening here. Is the committee prepared to ask the Council of State for information on the protocol now proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by thanking the Temporary Committee on Evaluation Act on the parliamentary survey. It's quite a job she's done and managed. In addition, she has written a clear report with a concrete proposal for a regulation. There are still a few questions about how the procedure is going to proceed in the near future and how careful application can be central to this. We should not use the instrument of parliamentary interrogation too often, but certainly not too often: a round table or hearing where possible, a parliamentary inquiry where necessary and this as an intermediate form. The draft regulation is in line with the committee's expectation that the Chamber will consider matters carefully and ask its questions carefully. I do not hear much about the question of when, in the opinion of the evaluation committee, the appeals would be justified. However, the working methods and safeguards should be adapted to this. What type of subjects would parliamentary interrogation be the most appropriate? When will the rules of the temporary protocol best come into their own? Has there been a situation in recent years, which the committee thinks 'it could have clarified'? A little more clarity will help to weigh carefully when which parliamentary competence is best suited. I understand from the documents that a proposal for parliamentary questioning goes through the Bureau and that a majority of the Chamber must agree to it. But what happens before it is even a proposal that goes towards the Presidium? Can I get a standard setup, just like before a round table meeting at the Registry, which I only have to fill out? What assistance does the evaluation committee provide for by the Registry or other chamber officials when writing a research proposal? Chamberwork is, of course, very important. I know from experience how much work it takes to combine a parliamentary survey with parliamentary work. If we do this, it will take some time. I have a few questions about that. Once set up, the interrogation committee will take action and see who should be heard. To what extent does the evaluation committee expect that, given the limited scope of this study, the appointed members will still be able to focus on the other chamber work? Or does it require the full attention of a Member of Parliament, as in the case of a full parliamentary inquiry? To what extent is it still real for smaller groups to participate in a parliamentary interrogation committee? After all, the attractiveness of the instrument lies in the ability to set up such a committee more easily and earlier. Interrogation is expected to occur more frequently than a survey. How then is it ensured that the committee is balanced and that the preparation and questioning are careful? Finally, I come to the position of the witnesses and experts. They are subject not only to the rights but also to the duties of the Parliamentary Survey Act. Who can a witness or expert object if he or she considers that the interrogation committee has acted improperly against him or her? It is possible to object if he or she is called upon to provide information under oath, which is not reasonably related to the subject matter of investigation. This is more likely because of the shorter preparation and lack of extensive written research, whereas such a failure may have major consequences for the witness or expert. Is it an idea, for example, that such a person could address his or her complaints to the President of the Chamber? I would also like to hear a comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join those colleagues who have begun to express their thanks and appreciation for the work they have done. It is always a joy to take note of this and it touches the heart of parliamentary work. Pursuant to Article 69 of the Constitution, directors shall have access to the meeting of the Chamber. We think that is quite common, but it is sometimes good to say that it is very special that we have a special trade area here in our room, in which we have a courteous and hospitable reception of our directors. In return, I should like to say that the Chamber can expect the directors to provide the information requested by the Chamber with the utmost care and truth. That is the least consideration that can be given. That is why this is guaranteed in Article 68 of the Constitution, which establishes the Constitution. There must be confidence that this is done in care and loyalty, and in truth. That must be beyond any doubt, because it is the heartbeat of our parliamentary system. However, the Court also needs a good research tool for itself to gain more knowledge of the substance, at least in order to have access to it. Article 70 of the Constitution therefore provides the right of inquiry or inquiry, which, as has been rightly pointed out, is the ultimate parliamentary means. In principle, these are usually less far-reaching instruments such as hearings, round tables or a parliamentary inquiry. The parliamentary survey, as I said, is the exceptional means, the extreme and the toughest means that we can use in the field of information. The proposal we are discussing today actually provides for a light parliamentary survey. It is possible under the rules, even now, but it is not being used in practice. The picture is that a parliamentary survey of its nature is by definition very long and can only take place after years. The committee has examined this thoroughly and this has resulted in a thorough report. The Committee acknowledges that it is already possible, in fact, under the Parliamentary Survey Act, to lighten a parliamentary survey or an interrogation. Now we know that when we talk about drinks, whether light or not, sugar content doesn't matter very much. This metaphor actually applies to either the parliamentary survey or the parliamentary survey light. In this respect, no additional rules are actually needed. The proposed temporary protocol provides more clarity, but is not strictly necessary. As a definition for the slight variant of the parliamentary survey or interrogation, the temporary protocol defines it as a short-term debt and that is what you really have to put a dash on, I think, is a parliamentary inquiry aimed at obtaining oral information through the hearing of persons under oath. That sounds simple and attractive, but caution is needed. Precisely because there is no extensive file investigation, hearing under oath also has risks. This leads to three questions which I would like to put to the temporary committee. How can we prevent a person, an institution or a public authority from being placed in the suspect's bank in advance by questioning in such a short-term parliamentary survey? Such an effect can be reinforced by the principle of public interrogation. How do we realize that it is clear to everyone that it is not so much a question of finding the truth in the sense of "the bottom stone will and must come up" but that it is actually a means of providing information to the Chamber? Well, then it's gonna get a little different character. How do we make it clear that the latter is the case: information acquisition? There is a chance that, for example, the hearing of officials will be applied quickly in order to determine whether the Minister has spoken the truth. This would be contrary to the Minister's obligation to provide information. That must be prevented. How do we prevent this being used in advance as a sword against rulers, because we actually feel that we are not being provided with the right information? These comments lead to the SGP not expecting miracles from this dusted instrument. The SGP believes that the means of the survey, including in the form of interrogation, should only be applied to a truly serious and wider social problem. If possible, less far-reaching means should be chosen; proportionality, so to speak. Only under these conditions can parliamentary interrogation rights have real added value and provide clarity within a short period of time on a subject where the presumption that the truth may have been used is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating the members of the committee and the staff for the work they have done. The SP also likes the outcome. There will be a possibility of a parliamentary interrogation under oath without having to proceed immediately to a lengthy and profound parliamentary inquiry. That was the one extreme. The other extreme was the voluntary appearance at the hearing. There was nothing in there. That hole is being filled now. I also congratulate the committee on its practical approach, because why be difficult and complicated when it can be relatively simple? Persons may be heard under oath in a parliamentary interview using the existing legal framework, the WPE 2008, the Parliamentary Survey Act. The committee immediately submitted a concrete proposal: the Temporary Protocol parliamentary questioning. This is a guide to a structured and sufficiently secure application of the existing survey tool. These guarantees are, of course, necessary. Even if it is perhaps a mini-survey and not a traditional parliamentary survey, it has profound consequences for third parties. There is an obligation to cooperate under Article 14 of the Parliamentary Survey Act and persons may be heard under oath under Article 9 of the same law. We do not have to decide lightly on this. That is also what the committee says in the written round. Can the committee please go into this again, just to be sure? How do we avoid thinking too easily about this new instrument and that the speed would win the due diligence? We don't want that. We are, of course, here as Chamber itself, but I would like to get a response to this question in order to remove those concerns, as far as they still exist. How is the coincidence with the safeguards of criminal law regulated, for example the right that you do not have to cooperate in your own conviction? Does this not give rise to tension with this mini-survey, as with the "ordinary" parliamentary survey? The toolbox of the Lower House is now being filled a little further. This could be a useful parliamentary tool, although it will, of course, show how things are going in practice. We in the Chamber have the important and heavy responsibility to deal with this well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, on behalf of the CDA Group, I would like to thank the committee in box K for its exploration of the instrument of parliamentary interrogation. Thank you, of course, for the expert support in the second row. The CDA Group supports the committee's conclusion that the 2008 Parliamentary Survey Act should be the legal framework for a parliamentary questioning. A parliamentary interrogation is as much a parliamentary inquiry as an investigative instrument of the Court which entails profound obligations for third parties. A parliamentary interrogation will therefore have the character of a compact parliamentary survey. I see it as a small, practical innovation in the parliamentary democratic process. So far, the Chamber has conducted only long-term parliamentary surveys. Thus, in practice, the survey has become an instrument that the Court will only use in the extreme. It takes too much time and money to use it all too often. However, the Chamber needs an instrument that goes beyond a round table or a regular hearing. The CDA Group would like to make two suggestions to the committee for supplementing the protocol. The motion Segers c.s. speaks of a short but thorough preparation. This thorough preparation is necessary, including for a parliamentary questioning. I'd like to pay attention to that. Secondly, the CDA Group would like a parliamentary questioning not to start without consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office. After all, a parliamentary interrogation can interfere with a criminal investigation. I would like to receive a response from the committee to these two amendments. The question of whether a parliamentary interrogation is the most appropriate instrument can only be answered by trying. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, the Chamber can work on this on the basis of the committee's good work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the committee. I am not going to read the full name of the committee, because I have requested two minutes' speaking time, and if I start reading that huge title, I think those two minutes will be over. But my compliments on the work done, including the official support. Let me be clear, the PvdA is for a means between a non-binding hearing and a heavy parliamentary inquiry. The questioning under oath will enable reliable information to be gathered in a short period of time. I think that the use of the existing legal framework for this instrument is very sensible. Why would you invent a new wheel when there's a wheel that works just fine? There is no need for new legislation and a handle can be easily expressed in a protocol. The Labour Party is therefore entirely in favour of this. I do have a small question. Previous speakers have already mentioned this. How can we prevent this medicine from being taken too quickly? It is not easy, because we have agreed that there should be a majority for it, but we do not want any parliamentary quickies either. Has the committee considered this and what does the committee think about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u14	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I don't often see things happening that fast. The committee will respond at a time to be determined. I shall suspend the sitting until 6 p.m. That includes dinner break.
