ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, who has now arrived.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Through Nieuwsuur, we have learned that Minister Dijsselbloem of Finance wanted to reduce the projections for the number of asylum seekers in 2016, while the Ministry of Security and Justice had serious doubts about this. Last week there was a meeting with Secretary of State Dekker of Education, who could not tell the MPs how many refugee children needed education in 2015, let alone how many children this year. This morning, word came that municipalities are failing thousands of shelters. Do you think it's crazy, I'd almost like to say. I see a cabinet sticking its head in the sand. Doesn't the Cabinet know, or doesn't the Cabinet want to know? Unpleasant forecasts are wiped off the table and then a story is invented on how to sell this magic with figures to the municipality. And that while in the Netherlands a lot of city leaders and volunteers are doing their utmost to manage everything in the right direction. I have two questions. During the plenary debate on 11 February last, this Secretary of State said that he is not betting on his own for achieving the necessary reception places in 2016. How cynical is it, then, to have to read now that for political reasons a lower prognosis than calculated has been chosen? I would like to hear a response from this Secretary of State. My second point is this. Do the COA and the Ministry have enough people, time and money to look with municipalities at the now proposed smaller reception locations? And will the Secretary of State talk to the municipalities to find out the reasons why there are not enough places and homes for asylum seekers and status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Keijzer asks: don't you know? No, the Cabinet doesn't know exactly how many people are coming. No one knows that at all, and that also makes it difficult to respond. That is why we have been working for years to adjust, year in and year out, if necessary, the resources needed to accommodate people. At this time, when we are seeing even larger flows trying to get here, and when measures are being taken, fortunately also in a European context, to control that influx, it is even more difficult to make good predictions about it. I was quoted as saying that I wouldn't bet on myself, but that statement was about arranging adequate care if there were indeed more than 93,000 people coming in this year. I can see that municipalities want it all. We work hard together, but to really arrange this in an orderly way is a task that goes beyond the ability of the Netherlands. Last year it was predicted that if you don't do something, 93,000 people will come. I am pleased that other members of the cabinet did not draw the conclusion from this that there should be money for 93 000, but the conclusion: then we should not do nothing, then we should act. We now see the fruits of the agreements with Turkey. We are now seeing an influx that would have been lower than if we had not made those agreements, if Europe's policy of waving through had not been brought to an end and no border barriers had been introduced. Do we now have enough resources and people for smaller-scale care? Am I speaking to the municipalities and provinces? The urgency and the shortage that arises if we do not recover quickly is due to the fact that I went to Groningen last week to talk to Drenthe, Friesland, Groningen. I also went to Den Bosch to talk to the people from Brabant and I also had the national direction table. So, yeah, I'm there and we're having this conversation. That's where the urgency comes from. However, I also hear the VNG say about small-scale reception: don't make it even smaller now than is provided for in the administrative agreement; keep it at 200 in the satellite variant and use even smaller variants just for the status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u4	In The Hague you can count on a ministry with scenarios. At municipal level, in a village or in a city, you just have to try to get it done, with the volunteers you have. However, I find it hard to see that one of the most important issues at the moment, the refugee crisis, is the government, as far as I am concerned, negotiating with figures. In doing so, it leaves the municipalities in the cold. This morning on the radio, a journalist concluded that municipalities, COA and this secretary of state are talking side by side. I speak to aldermen and mayors who tell me small places are denied. I speak to aldermen and mayors who tell me that the subsidy scheme is insufficient. An amount of €6,000 per place is simply not enough to achieve good places. I don't understand why this government doesn't want to use the higher proceeds of the landlord's tax................................................................................................................................................................................................................. What is this Secretary of State really going to do to ensure that more places are created so that we do not miss thousands of shelters this summer? Should European policy fail, there may be 30,000 gaps by the end of the year. Then the blackbird is laid down with all those aldermen and mayor who do their very best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u5	I'm gonna distance myself from that last one right away. I've never left a blackbird with a local driver before. I have a lot of conversations with local drivers. I don't respond directly to a conversation with one or a few mayors and aldermen. I'll start by talking to the rest of you about what's good for everyone in the whole country. With the few mayors who want space for experiments, I'll speak in person later this week. I also speak to all those other directors who, for example, want to house 1,200 people in their congregation. That is fine, but in that sense there should be no confusion that it could have been 120 people. In this field of tension, I finally have to arrange the shelter together with the mayors, the aldermen, the Commissioners and the security regions. I want to be careful and not immediately draw my plan in response to every cry. Then there are the subsidy schemes opened up by Minister Blok. These schemes have been developed in consultation with the housing associations and the municipalities. The arrangements have been calculated in advance. We already have 10% of the entire budget applications running. Things are happening. However, I also believe that there are aldermen who say that this cannot be done here. I would like to speak to him to see whether it is a communication error about the regulation or whether there are barriers that we can remove. There is a big gap between the number of times I hear 'aldermen find this' and the number of concrete cases I am faced with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u6	Finally, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u7	I hear 10% of the budget has already been signed in. That's 14,000 homes over a number of years. So that's really nothing. I am sorry that this Secretary of State is not prepared to discuss the issue with municipalities about where it is stalling, to really see what is wrong with the regulations and to realize places. It's not just fine words that matter. The CDA Group is also waiting for proposals from the Spring Paper to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u9	...to generate the money for this. Mr. Chairman. I've got six seconds left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u10	I find the conclusion that I do not want to talk to people difficult to reconcile with my comprehensive answer in which I indicate what conversations I had last week and this week. I also indicated that I have conversations in the schedule. I can only make progress with mayors and aldermen by talking about the concrete bottlenecks and removing them. At least we'll make sure it wasn't us. I also realize that it is still quite a tour for all those mayors and aldermen to get that much needed care in their community.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u11	I have two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u12	Two questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u13	Which I'll put in one sentence. The Secretary of State has spoken to Brabant. It called for a fair distribution over Brabant. Is that what the Secretary of State is taking over? The mayors of Boxtel and Heusden have argued for pilots. It's been going on since February. Through "satellite numbers" of 50 or 100, they may reach 200. When will the Secretary of State decide on this so that these municipalities can deploy their capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u14	I was referring to these two specific mayors and their plans when I was talking about the appointments I have this week. So I'm talking to them about that this week. Before taking a decision on this matter, I first drew my light on it in a broader sense. It is not just a question of satisfying people in two places, but also of preventing twenty mayors from standing on my doorstep saying: what are you doing now, because now I am stuck. I want to do that carefully. I don't have to deal with two municipalities. I have to deal with them all over the country. I have to comply with the entire assignment. I'm having that conversation this week. I just mentioned a couple of provinces I've been to. There's more on the schedule. It's a continuous conversation to make sure it comes of it. I have every intention of avoiding obstacles on our side. It's hard enough to take care of it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u15	I would like to address the issue of information. If you look closely at the documents that Newsuur has wobbed, you can see that between two different ministries, namely between Finance and Security and Justice, there was apparently a discussion about these two scenarios. Why didn't they choose to indicate that bandwidth and let the Chamber know that the estimate is between 58 000 and 92,000? I thought you could have done that with a statement from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u16	I could have, but I didn't think it would be serviceable, not even at the support level, to communicate a number where I say right away that the cabinet is going to make sure it doesn't come to that. You see a period of discussion because, if I chose to budget at 58,000, of course I wanted to have political commitment to take the measures necessary to ensure that the influx would not reach 93,000, but lower. The Chamber has heard that before from the cabinet. It's time-consuming. You can see his impact on that trajectory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u17	In the State Secretary's reasoning, the scenario if we didn't do anything would be 92,000. There's a lot to do with that. The scenario would be 58.000, or a lower number, if the policy advocated by the cabinet is implemented. But anyway, that could have just been shared with the Chamber, couldn't it? Now the Secretary of State actually says that it was not a good time to share that scenario with the Chamber. This gives you the impression that you want to propose a completely different story to the Chamber, the COA, the IND and all the municipalities. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u18	The scenarios in which you can get in the 90,000 if you do nothing have already been discussed with the Chamber in the budgetary procedure. I didn't think that was news. Mrs Keijzer made that transfer on the basis of the European Commission's estimates. So we would have had that discussion here by now. I think it's a confusing message if you officially bring out: if we didn't do something, it'd be this, but we're gonna do something, so it won't be. The cabinet has decided that doing nothing is not an option, that 93.000 in a year is not feasible for the Netherlands. Then of course you cannot say: we do 58.000 and we hope for the best of it. No, then you also have to take the measures and say to each other the commitment that you are going to make it lower. If there is, I think you should communicate that, too. Then you should also say that you are estimated at 58,000 and that you are working on a lot of measures that do not control 58,000, but much less. Even lower is even more pleasing. The measures are there and we now see that they are working.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u19	Doing nothing is indeed not an option. We must not end up again in the situation of dragging children from crisis relief to crisis relief. I see the Secretary of State is fighting hard for that. Municipalities will also have to make an extra contribution, especially the municipalities that are doing nothing now. My question concerns the status holders. Block is responsible for ensuring that in municipalities...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u20	The Minister for Housing and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u21	The Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst is responsible for ensuring that additional houses are actually being built, not only for status holders, but also for other people on waiting lists. What extra steps can we expect from him?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-6.u22	I will ask Minister Blok to give the Chamber the detailed answer. I don't know what else he has in mind. It is true that we have opened up the scheme, following last November's governance agreement, and that we are currently considering what further improvements could be made in the discussions on its development with municipalities and provinces. Those conversations are going on right now. The figures and measures are now being put side by side to side to see where the bottlenecks are. If there are opportunities, we will follow up on this with the municipalities.
