ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, EenVandaag focused on a major research by the Vrije Universiteit and the ACM on cartel formation in Dutch ports. The conclusions are shocking, according to D66. One in ten companies in the port of Rotterdam and other ports admits to making price or market agreements. In addition, 20% of these companies tend to make prohibited cartel agreements with competitors. The level of knowledge about competition rules appears to be very low at all. Of the 400 companies examined, only half are aware of the basic rules for fair competition. D66 finds these conclusions rather shocking. We cannot and should not accept this kind of practice of rotten apples in that beautiful port in Rotterdam. 'Cause who's gonna be the victim in the end? That's the customers and the consumers. I have the following questions to the Minister. How did this situation arise? The Rotterdam port will be one of the spearheads of the ACM next year. How does the Minister feel about that? In the broadcast of EenVandaag it became clear that the companies via Deltalinqs indicate that the rules are very complex and not always clear. Does the Minister find it interesting to point out that it would be good to talk to Deltalinqs, perhaps together with ACM, to see which rules are complex or unclear? D66 is also a supporter of lick-on-piece policies and high fines, but that does not mean that we should leave other things, such as providing good information to businesses. We're wondering if the odds of getting caught are high enough. If not, my question to the Minister is what he will do about it. How harmful are these practices for the Dutch economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-5.u2	Madam President. Mrs Belhaj said it was a study of the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. She's right about that. It is true that this research was commissioned by the ACM, who wanted to know what it was like in the sector of the port of Rotterdam and beyond. As Mrs Belhaj says, some of the entrepreneurs do not know the rules and break the law, in this case Article 6 of the Competition Act, which is the prohibition on cartels. They do so by making market sharing agreements and price agreements. Those entrepreneurs themselves must ensure that they know what the legal rules are relevant to them. That's part of their responsibility. The agreements they make restrict competition. This is bad for customers, for consumers, for entrepreneurs who do comply with the rules and ultimately for the competitiveness of the port of Rotterdam. I think it is quite right that the ACM is in the process of enforcement. I also think it is right that it has said that it should be given priority, given the situation. Ship-generated waste collectors have now received three fines amounting to EUR 2.7 million. Four penalties have been imposed on the owners of cold stores and freezers up to EUR 12.5 million. There are still a number of investigations in progress. If that's what it takes, there'll be more fines. Entrepreneurs have to follow the rules. It's really not that complicated. If you are an entrepreneur in the port of Rotterdam, you know what's going on around the Competition Act and the cartel legislation. Two things are being done. The first line of the ACM is that it is maintained in the way I have just mentioned. The second line is that behavioral changes are being provoked and information is being made. Together with Deltalinqs and the Port company, there will be a meeting with the entrepreneurs to talk about unfair competition, what the rules are and what needs to be done with it. This is how we tackle this problem: improving information and awareness, but also maintaining the most logical rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-5.u3	I am pleased to hear that the Minister had the same idea as D66, namely to have a good discussion on Deltalinqs' comments. The minister says you can assume that companies know such rules. It's just as worrying. I can imagine him sitting in that room with all kinds of companies making agreements with each other, but the report refers to a certain culture in which it seems legitimate to do so. Cultural changes are a story apart. You can expect the cabinet to come up with a clear vision as to why such a culture is undesirable. Let me mention at least one: about 180,000 jobs are specifically related to the port of Rotterdam. It is about billions of added value for our Dutch economy. The fact that there are so many who are not aware that you should not want this at all remains worrying for us. I would like to invite the Minister again to say a little more about it. What does he think of that 20% that has indicated a tendency towards making such cartel agreements? Of course, many of these companies may also be wondering how big the chance is and whether, if they are fined, they can bear that fine. Mr Verhoeven, my esteemed colleague from D66, tabled a good amendment not so long ago to make the maximum cartel fines not dependent on the duration of a cartel. If it turns out that these fines are so low that they are taken into account, is the Minister prepared to look at this option? In the meantime, some companies, who understand but are fooling around with it, may be given a financial incentive not to show this kind of behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mrs Belhaj's figures are good. 10% of the companies in the port of Rotterdam violate the rules on this point, 20% do not see a bone in doing so and even consider it. 70% of companies are doing well and comply with the rules. Mrs Belhaj is right that it is also a cultural issue. So we have to deal with them in two ways, with information and awareness, but also with enforcement. I agree with Mrs Belhaj that the chance of getting caught is very important. The fines are high, I can assure her. The proposal by her group colleague was, with all due respect, a marginal proposal in this respect. Indeed, high fines can be imposed on the basis of turnover. I also think it is very unwise for companies to take lightly what is going on here. We believe that Article 6 of the Competition Act, the prohibition of cartels, is an important legal provision which must be complied with. There are high fines on them and they will also be imposed. The ACM is working on that, too. I think it's important that we do both. We need to work on culture and awareness, and we need to provide information. At the same time, we must be tough on those who deliberately break the rules. We'll do both.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-5.u5	Of course, this behavior can't be. However, we can also see that entrepreneurs have the most spicy in the port of Rotterdam and that other ports, such as Hamburg and ports more south of us, are being migrated. One of the problems in the port concerns the transit times of customs. Is that also from the discussion points that the Minister takes with him in his consultation with the people in the port? Does he include his colleagues from V and J and Finance? That's what we need. There is also another problem. We'll talk about that in an AO tomorrow morning, like nuclear matters coming through the port, cocaine and so on. We are not always happy about that either. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-5.u6	Time-limits for customs and cocaine: I do not directly see the link with what is at issue here, namely infringement of Article 6 of the Competition Act. I said what I could say about it. I think that my colleague responsible for customs, who is the Secretary of State for Finance, has the necessary attention and will be happy to speak to the Chamber about this. In general terms, the things that play in the port that are important for the port's position, including the competitiveness of the port, have my attention. I am always prepared to discuss with the organisations concerned and the entrepreneurs concerned the possibilities for the government to function better in order to enable them to do their job properly. In any case, together, we can see that we have created a situation in the Netherlands in which, with our port, with all other companies and with our export position, we are the most competitive economy in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-5.u7	Then I have a very specific question. If the Minister talks with the port, would he like to talk about the strong competition that the port is facing in terms of fruit and vegetables? A lot of important Dutch players go to other ports. This has to do with, among other things, customs transit times. I think that's a problem. I like to keep them in the Netherlands. This is also in line with our international competitive position. Does the Minister also wish to make an effort to this end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-5.u8	I have already said that I would like to discuss with the sector and with individual entrepreneurs all the factors relating to the functioning of the Dutch government which are of interest to the port sector in Rotterdam in this case. The same applies to this point. So I will keep an eye on the fact that the discussions that are taking place with the sector, including this point, raised by Mrs Mulder, receive the attention it deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-5.u9	Following on from that last point, I would of course like to express my wholehearted support for the Minister's words on the importance of the port of Rotterdam, including for international competitiveness. Of course this has to be addressed, but it is always good to see whether we are doing much better than the rest and whether we are constantly highlighting how well that port of Rotterdam is doing. In the context of this subject, my question is what is the situation with regard to price fixing in other ports in Europe and whether Rotterdam is actually doing very well and that other ports should catch up. Where are we in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-5.u10	I have no idea, but I do not rule out the fact that what Mr Monasch is suggesting with his question could be the reality. I am convinced that if we ensure that the Competition Act is respected, people do not make price agreements and market sharing agreements are not made. Apart from what they do in other ports in other countries and other parts of the world, we are responsible for Europe's largest port in Europe's most competitive economy. We need to keep that top of the bill. I'd like to make a commitment to that. I also feel supported by Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you. This brings us to the end of Question Time.
