ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State and those present in the public gallery. The next item is a general discussion report, a follow-up to a debate between the Chamber and the Secretary of State on 2 June. That means that speaking time on the part of the Chamber is short. Mrs Thieme is the first speaker on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State stated in general consultation that VAT is ineffective as an income, employment or behavioural instrument. I would like to draw him's attention to the reduced VAT rate for construction, which has led to a change in that sector, and of course to the scientifically proven effect of VAT reduction on hairdressers and shoemakers in 2000, among others. This has shown that more than 10,000 additional jobs have been created. So I would like to have another response to the fact that we can use VAT as a driving tool for increased employment or behavioural change. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that every opportunity should be taken to make our society more sustainable;]] [[drawing attention to the "polluter pays, sustainable savings" principle;]] [[noting that adapting the VAT Directive offers opportunities for taxing the consumption of sustainable and healthy products, such as including the possibility of bringing products such as (organic) fruit and vegetables below a 0% VAT rate;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to a European VAT action plan which also focuses on fiscal greening,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission announced in the VAT Action Plan that it would like to amend the VAT Directive;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to a VAT Directive with maximum policy and tariff freedom of the Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-277]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-278]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u3	Mr. Chairman. According to the Civil Code, the NAM has to compensate for the damage it has caused in Groningen, but it is acting in a bizarre way. Groningers must have the name of the NAM on their invoice with the notary - even if they themselves order repair work to be carried out. They are now dealing with an inspector who may visit and with tax arrangements that they have not asked for. That's unacceptable. We believe that the government should be committed to ensuring that the Groningen people, who have enough on their minds, do not have another problem with the fiscal construction that the NAM has devised for them. I therefore want the government to go after this and make sure that the NAM has no further interference. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that under the Civil Code, the NAM is obliged to compensate for earthquake damage;]] [[whereas the resolution of the damage by the NAM has been distanced and the handling has been invested in the implementation organisation Centrum Secure Wonen (CVW);]] [[whereas the NAM still has a significant indirect influence on the settlement of claims;]] [[invites the Government to do justice to the Groningers and to ensure that the NAM deposits the agreed damages for repairing the damage or demolition/new construction without further interference (from the NAM and CVW) into the (depot) account of the injured parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-279]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u4	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group is surprised that it takes four letters of office and answers to letters of office before Minister Kamp and the NAM together admit that a form of falsehood is committed in writing. In the letter from Minister Kamp, the NAM itself says: "In the meantime, even in cases where the NAM is not directly the client, it has been decided that invoices are no longer made in the name of the NAM." That in the name of the invoice of someone who is not the client is punishable, the Secretary of State admitted. This act was therefore prohibited because the account must be in the name of the client. And that wasn't the NAM. In the debate, the Secretary of State stated that this is a criminal offence. What action is the government taking, this Secretary of State towards the NAM now that it has been acting illegally for a long time? Can the government indicate when the NAM has ceased this compulsion? I'd like a precise date. Furthermore, we asked about the conclusion agreements of the NAM with individuals throughout the Netherlands who also have a confidentiality agreement, not only Groningen but also Twente, for example. We didn't get an answer, and that's why we're filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport has indicated that secret agreements with victims of medical failure will be prohibited;]] [[noting that the NAM has admitted to having concluded secret fixing agreements with victims of various types of damage;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that:]] [[the Lower House is given an insight into the nature and number of the secret fixing agreements concluded by the NAM over the past five years;]] [[the NAM shall no longer enter into and/or conclude secret fixing agreements;]] [[those who have a confidentiality clause in their establishment agreement are not bound by it;]] [[calls on the Government to report to the House of Representatives before 1 September,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Thieme, Mr Groot, Mr Klever, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Smaling, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Van Vliet and Mr Bashir.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-280]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u5	So it's about the secrecy that's been imposed. If the person himself wants to keep the amount secret, then of course he can. The point is that he can't be forced and that if he talks, he can't be punished under that treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u6	A brief comment for the Acts. I think it is a nice motion, but I said earlier in the AO, which I would like to repeat here, that in my opinion this is not a tax issue and that this motion should have been discussed in a debate with Minister Kamp. The agreements that are being made have fiscal consequences, but that is not what this problem is about. I welcome the motion and have also signed it, but under this remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u7	It's been noted. I now give the floor to Mr Van Vliet for his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u8	Mr. Chairman. I have heard that there is still uncertainty about medical devices in relation to the annex to the Sales Tax Act. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the wording of Table I of the 1968 Sales Tax Act, which has become obsolete, confuses the determination of the correct VAT rate for medical devices, which allows inspectors to reach different judgements even in the case of identical devices;]] [[whereas further discussion with the government is required but there is an acute problem with the definition of kidney dialysis fluid in item a 6 that we can now resolve;]] [[Whereas today dialysis concentrate is used instead of dialysis liquid in exactly the same application;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Explanatory Notes to heading (a 6) that dialysis liquid is also intended for dialysis concentrate and to include in heading (a 35) that dialysis liquid and concentrate without registration number (RVG number) are regarded as "parts/parts of an artificial kidney',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-281]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u9	Mr. Chairman. I look forward to responding to the motions and/or motions. Mr Van Vliet's questions just now. In consultation with the Secretary of State, my group drew attention to the impact of VAT rules on schools. We'll get another letter about that, which I'm looking forward to. We should not stand in the way of schools, for example, in cooperation. The same applies to questions I had asked about intra-European trade and the use of online gaming certificates, for example. Our entrepreneurs are lagging behind others due to differences in tax treatment. The Secretary of State would clarify that. So I'd like to look forward to the letter. We have discussed the case of the NAM and the manner in which invoices should be made in the event of damage recovery. Mr Omtzigt was just talking about that. In the letter we received, it says that this has recently been done by the rules. My group also has the question of'since recently'. Was that after the general meeting? That's kind of interesting. It's good to see that it's finally recognised that things didn't go well here. For a lot of Groningers this was an extremely annoying case and headache that they really couldn't use. It's okay if this ends. We will closely monitor whether this is a thing of the past. Furthermore, like many colleagues, I have co-signed Mr Omtzig's motion on the imposition of secrecy. My group does not want people, because they want to find a solution, almost to be forced to sign a non-disclosure agreement and thus to be silenced. Those cases must be brought to an end. The motion calls on the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u10	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for providing much clarity on the rights and obligations relating to VAT legislation that also apply to the NAM. The debate was about the European VAT Action Plan. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the volume of VAT carousel fraud in Europe is estimated at EUR 50 billion per year;]] [[Whereas VAT carousel fraud is mostly a cross-border organised crime;]] [[whereas Europol has a role to play in combating organised crime;]] [[whereas Europol does not have access to Eurofisc, the system to combat VAT fraud in Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to give Europol access to Eurofisc in order to better enable Europol to tackle the organisations behind large-scale VAT carousel fraud,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-282]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u11	In a minute, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u12	For which my compliments. However, we are going to slow down a little bit. We're not gonna suspend, but we're gonna wait for the Secretary of State to have the motions available. He can then respond immediately to any motions filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u13	Mr. Chairman. I'll go through the motions as much as I can. Occasionally, I'll meet a question on the way, which I'll try to take with me. Mrs Thieme asked why I do not regard VAT as the ideal steering tool. I don't, because it's very complex. We have different rates. Especially when you're talking about meat or vegetables, so make it one more expensive and the other cheaper, that's an almost inexhaustible whole with even a very limited influence on behavior. Bricks can sometimes be separated from other elements of our economy, but meat and vegetables are no longer carried out. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u14	The Secretary of State said during the debate that it has not been proven that a VAT instrument can be used as an income, employment or behavioural instrument, but I have demonstrated in my contribution during this VAO that it does have effects. I mentioned, among other things, the reduction of VAT for hairdressers, shoemakers and other manufacturing industries. I would like to know from the Secretary of State on which he bases his statement that it has not been proven that it can be effective. Perhaps the Secretary of State does not think it is politically desirable to have a vegetable instrument, but that is a different story. He claimed that it has not been proven to be effective, but I have just fought that with a number of examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u15	These examples are all sectoral. If you make hairdressers cheaper, there might be people who cut their hair more often. In any case, I do not see this happening sufficiently with the current rate, as one can see. However, the CPB has shown that employment does not grow on balance. The same applies to income policy, because it is not a very effective instrument there either. I've written that in letters to the Chamber before. It may help one sector, but it may also hinder the other. In our economy, greater differentiation of VAT does not, in any case, lead to more employment in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u16	The arable and horticultural sectors produce very clear products: fruit and vegetables. The application of a zero VAT rate for fruit and vegetables seems to me to be a very clear and simple method of VAT differentiation. I do not see why that would lead to additional administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u17	This is because, for example, these products are also sold in combined form. In this way, the Tax Administration cannot decide which share of a product belongs to which VAT rate. That would all be extremely confusing. I was hoping to have convinced all the listeners here that we should not make things any more complicated with the Tax Administration. In any case, I do not often go to the hairdresser and I do not eat meat either, so Mrs Thieme and I can have a conversation in that regard. I come to the Thieme/Great motion on part No. 278, which calls on the Government to commit itself to a VAT Directive with maximum policy and tariff freedom. I consider this motion, in line with the previous AO, to support the policy. However, I would like to refer once again to the package leaflet, because we all know that it will still be difficult for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u18	You're leaving the judgment to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u19	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Bashir on part No. 279, in which the government is asked to do justice to the Groningen people through a deposit account. I will come straight to the motion-Omtzigt c.s. on any secret establishment agreements. I repeat a bit of what Mr Van Vliet said earlier, but this goes so far beyond my field that I cannot judge the motions at all. They're not about taxation either. In two days' time there will be a debate with Minister Kamp, who will write the letter I have promised to the Members. It therefore seems useful to me to hold these motions until a later date, so that we can first discuss them with Minister Kamp in the AO. That is what the AOs are for, and that is why we are here. I understand the legitimacy of the wishes, which is clear. However, I cannot judge at all whether this is the right way to respond to this. With regard to the VAT issue that might apply to this point, I would like to say once again here that perhaps with a little less flour than the previous time, the Tax Administration is monitoring proper compliance with the VAT rules, including with the NAM. That is precisely what the inspector is doing. Mr Kamp's letter shows that the irregularities, as far as they were concerned, have now been repaired. I believe that this has been the case since January 2016, at least that is what I can remember from my colleague's letter. That is something that is being monitored, and we have clear rules on which everyone has to abide, and that is what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u20	The Secretary of State said, in response to my question, that the policy has apparently changed since January 2016, but unfortunately that answer was not in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u21	I thought it was in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u22	Is there any further action towards the NAM for the fact that before 2016 it encouraged people to put invoices in a name other than their own, while they were clients?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u23	Every effort is being made to ensure that the victims in Groningen are not again duped by anything in the tax sphere. VAT is thus collected where it is to be collected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u24	It is good that VAT is collected where it is to be collected. However, my question was about something else. In fact, the NAM admitted that it was a text that was in quotes, from the NAM, that it had in the past asked people to put invoices in the name of the NAM, while they were their clients. That's a forbidden act. That's an economic crime. The NAM has therefore encouraged people to commit an economic offence while they were in a vulnerable position. Their house was broken. They couldn't go anywhere and had to sign. Will the Secretary of State consider that and reconnect to us, or that will lead to action towards the NAM?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u25	I leave Mr Omtzig's interpretation of the text of the NAM on his behalf, as well as the words he used to judge it. I think it would be better if the precise arrangements were discussed in the debate with Minister Kamp. I repeat that these victims will in no way get tax-free between the wheels. I can only say that from the fiscal point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u26	Nevertheless, I have a clarifying question. I fully understand that my motion is being referred to Minister Kamp. However, we are talking here about a purely VAT issue. Minister Kamp is about a lot of things in the context of earthquakes, but VAT is about the only thing he's not about. That's what the Secretary of State for Finance is about. This letter admits that pressure has been put and that people have been forced to change the name of an invoice, namely in the name of the NAM. Those people said the same thing to us. The Secretary of State himself has said that this cannot be done. It's a crime, but the Secretary of State says he can't talk about it, given Article 67. The NAM is likely to have triggered an economic crime. Does that follow action towards the NAM? Do we only take small savers or do we also dare to tackle larger companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u27	My answers can only be fiscal. Taxly, it all needs to be done neatly. Mr Omtzigt takes a more criminal turn in his speech, but I am not talking about what he says. There hasn't been a single report. There is nothing at all here that I can talk about and not something I am talking about. All this has been dealt with from taxation. It has been done nicely and VAT has been paid where VAT has to be paid. Unlike that, I do not have many answers for Mr Omtzigt on offer, because it is outside my sphere of influence. It could be found in the more generic agreements with the NAM. That is what my colleague, Mr Kamp, is talking about here in this Chamber in two days' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u28	I understand that we should confine ourselves to taxation in the debate with the Secretary of State, but he said that before 1 January there was another practice. A number of colleagues, with the D66 spokesperson, have said that this is how people are encouraged to do something that is not allowed at all. The Secretary of State now says: from 1 January 2016 that has changed and resolved. Good, but that period before that? Should I understand the words of the Secretary of State in such a way that the Tax Administration is still on its way to the NAM to recover cases that occurred before that date and which apparently were not according to the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u29	The Tax Administration is there not only to point out to taxpayers how things are going from now on, but also to apply, if necessary and justified, corrections on the past. As far as is necessary and where necessary, the inspector will generally do so. We can therefore expect it to be appropriate in this case as well, and if necessary. It is a large taxpayer, which is also visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u30	The Secretary of State does not say it in so many words, but I can only conclude that corrections have been made to things that went wrong before 1 January of this year. The question then is what form it is. Is it just a correction? Or are there other consequences, as is the case with citizens who do not comply with the rules, and I am not talking about criminal law, but simply paying a due amount? This is true of someone who cheats with a benefit and it is true of people who make mistakes with taxes. I assume it also applies to large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u31	Each taxable person, as well as the taxable person, shall be laid down in accordance with the applicable enforcement measures. This taxable person is also treated like any other taxable person. But I really can't say all kinds of things here about individual taxpayers. That makes me someone who's acting against the law, and I don't want to. I do not think Mr Van Weyenberg wants to provoke me to do that either. But again, this has been handled by the Tax Administration in an appropriate manner, in line with the action taken against other tax obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u32	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u33	Mr Van Weyenberg, I note that it should not be a trend for us to interrupt in threes. But I will allow this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u34	For me, it's just the conclusion that things happened before 1 January that weren't allowed to happen. The Secretary of State says there's enforcement. I will then draw a clear conclusion: one and one is two and so there has just been action by the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u35	I would like a response from the state secretary to the conclusion that has just been drawn. It is a legitimate point that if citizens do not comply with the law, the entire Chamber is standing at the interrupt microphone to ask the Secretary of State to act hard. Then action must be taken and fines imposed. Now the fellow minister of this Secretary of State sends a letter to the Chamber in which it is written in black and white that things have happened by the NAM that were not allowed to happen. They're being corrected. That's what the letter says. And now suddenly they talk with flour in their mouths. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that the law is being enforced and that, if taxpayers have not complied with the law, appropriate sanctions will be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u36	The law will be enforced. If the applicable standards give rise to intervention, the Tax Administration will do so. I can't go beyond that. There are no practices other than existing practices according to applicable standards, laws and regulations. This applies to this taxable person and to any other person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u37	I would like to receive a letter from the Secretary of State or his colleague on the two motions that have been tabled and which are not being responded to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u38	I wanted to raise that point, because what exactly did the Secretary of State suggest?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u39	I think it would be more logical to question Mr Kamp orally in the AO first on these concerns and then to see what happens to the motions. There may still be some kind of official opinion, but it seems strange to me to have a number of important questions answered before the debate, while this has not yet been discussed in any way. I can imagine that Mr Kamp can give a very good answer to these kinds of questions. Members of Parliament may then consider what they are doing with it. If we now deal artificially with one of the subjects by letter before the debate, I do not think that will benefit the debate. I would like to pass on the request to Mr Kamp, but I do not think it is very logical. Please note that the debate will take place in this Chamber in two days' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u40	But the formal side of the matter is that the motions have been filed. It is up to Members of Parliament whether they are still asking Minister Kamp about that. That makes sense, but that's up to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u42	Minister Kamp will give an appreciation, possibly in the debate, before the Bashir motion (31066, No. 279) and the Omtzitt motion c.s. (31066, No. Debates of the European Parliament They may be arrested or withdrawn, but that is what we see in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u43	Not a bad word about the underlying concerns, but this seems to me to be an appropriate way of doing things. In the end, of course, the Chamber itself is about it. I come to the Van Vliet motion on part number. 281 (31066). I understand that Mr Van Vliet does have some sort of concern, because the explanatory notes to Table I of the Sales Tax Act will soon be updated. I do not think it is wise to anticipate that with this precision and therefore advise against the motion. At the same time, I respect and thank Mr Van Vliet for presenting this in-depth story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u44	When is the update of that table coming, because I am assured from various quarters that this really is an acute problem? Suppose I change the operative part to "the government requests in the explanatory notes to item a.6. to be taken into account that dialysis liquid also means dialysis concentrate'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u45	I think Mr Van Vliet overestimates me many times, for which I am also grateful to him. He thinks I'm so good at the same time in taxation and kidney dialysis, I can judge this. I can't. I cannot therefore respond to his proposal either. I suggest that Mr Van Vliet receive the congratulations, withdraw the motion and demand that this correction be made shortly. If he asks me to, I'll promise. Can't we just sort it out like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u46	What's soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u47	For Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u48	I am always very constructive and I understand the Secretary of State, but this is a very, very acute problem. It is very concrete and has no budgetary implications. I would like the motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u49	As chairman, I must insist on an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u50	Then I'll stay, with equal respect, in dissuaded. I can't judge the exact content. I would only like to carry out motions exactly as they are as sensible as they are. I maintain my suggestion that we are simply making haste, that the motion is withdrawn and that the congratulations and the laurel wreaths go to Mr Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u51	I'm not withdrawing the motion, but I'm holding her on because I want to keep that finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u52	At the request of Mr Van Vliet, I propose his motion (31066, No. 281). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u53	Then there is Mr Groot's motion. In at least one way, Mr Groot and I belong to the same camp. We are both supporters of the teachings of the exchange of information. We believe that this will lead us to find fraud, abuse and other villainies. However, the appeal in his motion is not fruitful for the following reason. Eurofisc is not a system but a network of experts. Whether you like it or not, there are very wide concerns about privacy in Europe. The basis for this is very limited if we in Europe are to argue in favour of it. In fact, the more privacy-friendly colleagues of mine in the Netherlands also have serious doubts about this type of exchange. The rule is that we exchange information with Europol in criminal matters. That's not the point. That's why this appeal, however unsympathetic... Sorry, however sympathetic I speak of a common hobby and then you may speak of it once, but this call is more of a common lovership than something that is feasible and fruitful. I do not think that we are driving the debate in the right direction. With transaction data, there is a huge amount to be gained in the field of carousel fraud. Carousel fraud isn't just tax avoidance, it's really stealing taxpayers' money. You get something you never paid for. On balance, you take out the state treasury and in many cases you use it to finance terrorism. That is a very serious problem and we are going to put very serious things against it. I'd like to put this sheep on the dry land first. In the meantime, I don't want to argue for things that really aren't feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u54	As the Secretary of State himself says, these are large sums of money. It would be very good if Europol could get a finger on it. I challenge the Secretary of State to give an example of privacy interests that are at stake when Europol expands its investigative tools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u55	My argument was not that I could list a long list of things that I rightly believe are damaging to privacy. I am just saying that this fear is widespread in Europe, in many countries. The fact that I'm going to breathe more calmly myself is another matter. This is about feasibility and not about my private objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u56	I understand that this concern is widespread in Europe. That does not alter the fact that the Secretary of State can advocate this in a European context as stated in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u57	You can do that. Anything can be done, but it doesn't help. At the moment, this request is without a chance. It interferes with other things that are very promising and that I find very important. We really want to roll these things out because we will all enjoy them very much. First, I want to have the other sheep on dry land and not damage the process with things that are not feasible at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u58	I'm still trying to get the next sheep out on dry land.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u59	I'm still missing an appreciation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u60	With some regret in my heart, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u61	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. The Secretary of State would like a five-minute suspension. It's possible.
