ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-25.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Taverne. Mr Boon and Mr Hazenkamp of the VVD Group and Mrs Liedorp and Mr Fleurke of the Ministry of the Interior supported the proposal in box K. Normally, the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations would be present as advisor to the Chamber, but he is absent due to illness. I thank the Minister for Living and National Service for showing his willingness to attend this part of the legal process on behalf of the Cabinet. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The response will be discussed at a later date in consultation with the initiator. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Veldman, who speaks on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-25.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to begin by expressing a word of appreciation to Mr Taverne for drafting the Temporary Experiment Law on electronic provisions in elections. Apart from the subject matter or the content of an initiative proposal, the author deserves appreciation, so I congratulate Mr Taverne. As a historian, I always like to look back and then look forward. If you do that with regard to electronic voting, Mr Taverne's bill is actually quite special. Who had heard of the DigiD, Facebook, Twitter and all kinds of home automation in the mid-1990s? The latter, President, means in good Dutch home automation and the integration of technology and services. I don't think anyone had heard of it since we were used to voting with a voting machine in those years. During most of the 1990s up to 2007 almost all municipalities used a voting computer. Anno 2016 we are looking ahead in terms of technology and we are talking about 3D and even 4D printing, printed organs that can replace damaged organs, self-managing cars and the robotization of society. All technology evolves to a higher level, but when we go to the ballot box next year, we sharpen the old-fashioned red pencil again. As all technology develops, we have taken a step back in time in terms of the voting process. Mr Taverne's bill is quite special, given the momentum. You'd think we should've handled this a long time ago, wouldn't you? Why isn't it? I am not asking that question to Mr Taverne, but to the Minister for the Interior. How is it that one of our colleagues from the Chamber should come forward with an initiative legislative proposal to make electronic voting legally possible again? In 2013, the Minister indicated that he would work on electronic voting as a matter of urgency. What happened? I would like to see from the Minister a timetable in which he indicates which route has been completed in those three years, including the associated costs. What explanation can the Minister give for not offering a bill himself in the end? I come to the content of the bill itself. It is a temporary experimental law which creates the possibility of electronic voting. The concrete implementation will have to be done through an AMvB. I understand the chicken-of-eidelemma that Mr Taverne has also run into. The market does not develop if there is no legal possibility and legal standards are difficult if the market is not yet there. I appreciate that Mr Taverne is breaking this deadlock with the initiative legislative proposal. Can he indicate how far the market really is now? How quickly could such an AMvB be drawn up? What is Mr Taverne's timeline? The original proposal also included the possibility for Dutch people abroad to vote on the Internet. Why did the initiator choose to take that out of the bill? Does he agree with the VVD that internet votes are still desirable for Dutch people abroad? Mr Taverne proposed experiments with a voice printer and a vote counter. The VVD Group can imagine this. After all, it is a clear improvement on the current process of manual counting, which is time-consuming and prone to fraud. The opinions obtained on the proposal give a largely positive picture. However, there are still a number of doubts, for example about the voice printer. I can imagine that further development in requirements and specifications in the AMvB and possible ministerial arrangements will be able to address a number of concerns. Does Mr Taverne share that view? Further elaboration can also lead to other forms and experiments. Does the Temporary Experiment Act give you room for that? How does Mr Taverne view this? I would also like to ask the Minister this question. What picture does he have in 2016? The red pencil and pencil sharpener can't be the dream future for this minister, can they? Society is moving from 1.0 to 2.0 and even 3.0 in many areas. It is time to make up for the delay in the voting process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-25.u3	Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes the idea of electronic voting and the intention to examine the possibilities for this. At this modern time, in which everything, even with the government, is increasingly digitally regulated, from tax return to driving licence application, the red pencil fills a ballot obscure, like a horse with a squatting car in a flashy science fiction film. In the past, as everyone knows, introducing the possibility of electronic voting has proved to be a bumpy road. Because of the importance and vulnerability of the subject, attempts to do so have all been stranded over the past decades. This is part of my group's admiration for this renewed attempt to bring the Dutch voting process closer to its time, where, despite the Digital Government Project, the Minister does not give home. I would therefore like to express my appreciation for the commitment and determination with which the author has approached this repulsive problem. Nevertheless, I still have a number of questions about the legislative proposal. Firstly, there are two further questions that the initiator did not answer in the note on the report. The initiator intends to separate the electronic voting and counting of those votes. In the past, integrating these two processes caused problems in terms of voting secrecy. However, my group fears that splitting up these two processes is a somewhat artificial method which will bring about a real modernisation of the Dutch electoral system of rain. It is a half-hearted interpretation of the desire to digitize. Last year I was in Estonia, among others, with the European Affairs Committee. There we had an excellent explanation of voting over the Internet, a system with which we have already had extensive experience. In this context, we are looking forward to the views of the author on the experiences in other countries. Does it occur in international context that, for example, these two processes are split up? If so, what experiences do these countries have with this and to what extent do these countries further develop this voting system towards a more integrated form of electronic voting or Internet voting? In addition, my question on how the possibility of experimentation is allocated has not been fully answered or at least has not been answered. The initiator points out that in his opinion the size of the municipality, the number of inhabitants, is a criterion. He argued that, in order to make the experiment as representative as possible, both small, large and medium-sized municipalities could be part of the experiment. However, my group wonders whether there are other criteria on which the above choices can be made. The initiator states in the amended explanatory statement that one of the main objectives is to increase accessibility to the mood for people with visual, motor or other physical impairment. Fine, but would it not be wise, in that context, to take specific account of this group in the allocation of municipalities? Is the initiator willing to make this possible? Then there is one more point of principle. This concerns the intention to expose the voting process to experiments. This temporary legislative proposal will, in future elections, only some Dutch municipalities and therefore only the people who live there will be subjected to an experiment. This may mean that citizens will be used as guinea pigs without their explicit consent in the implementation of one of the most basic and fundamental rights, namely the exercise of an active right to vote. My group believes it is important to examine the possibilities of electronic voting in order to ensure that our electoral system goes with time. Free-minded politics is choosing to involve citizens in democratic elections, but my group also believes that it is important that certain vulnerable groups should be taken into account in the establishment of the electoral system, just as the initiator states in his proposal. But isn't it asking for problems to experiment in this context? Is it justified to use an important right of people as test material? In my group's view, it is not for the public to explain that their vote may not be valid, simply because they may have made a mistake as a result of participating in an experiment in which they have to exercise their voting rights in a completely new way. Invalidity can also be the result of errors in the counting process. In this sense, my group wonders whether it is not much better to first create a kind of laboratory set-up, a pilot set-up, in which, without the pressure and interests of real elections, all children's diseases can be quietly discovered and then eliminated. Then we do not need a temporary experiment scheme and after a successful experiment, in addition to the current red pencil, the whole of the Netherlands can vote electronically again. My group would like to hear from the initiator how he thinks about this. This bill is a brave initiative. The initiator has shown the courage to stick his neck out for a renewal of our electoral system that everyone has been waiting for for for a long time. That alone deserves a compliment. There's still a couple of hooks in his proposal. My group has put some outstanding questions to the initiator. We are confident that he will come up with liberal answers to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-25.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Taverne wants a temporary arrangement to experiment with something that we do not yet have. I have studied the proposal very carefully, and I find it very sympathetic, but I was wondering if it was not a bit premature. That's the question I'm asking the Minister. It has become clear to me today from the media that outside this Chamber there is an expectation that we will discuss and introduce voting machines today. That is not the case. Mr Taverne's proposal does not state that. We had these computers once, but we also abolished them, because they were far too susceptible to fraud. Technology is progressing, as I say to Mr Veldman, but the possibilities for fraud are not less harsh. For the time being, we will not have voting machines just because they are too susceptible to fraud and because elections are too important. Something else is that we must always think about improvements, for example in counting. Counting may be accelerated and errors may be prevented. This is theoretically possible by e.g. counting paper votes electronically, but I have not yet seen any concrete proposals from the government. I'll ask the Minister what's going on. Are there concrete proposals for voting machines? I don't think so. I do not think we are going to do that for the time being, because it is too dangerous, because it is too susceptible to fraud. Are there any concrete proposals to allow electronic counting of paper votes? If so, will they lead to acceleration and less errors? And don't forget what it's gonna cost. The initiator makes this proposal because "we can only have it arranged." If we want to experiment in the future, we will have to change the law. We can do that now. Then we must have done our homework. I don't think that's a bad argument at all. Doing your homework on time is always good. I still see a problem of state law or a legislative problem. If we want to start experiments later, it is customary to regulate this by law. The Election Council also pointed that out. According to Mr Taverne's proposal, this will be done by General Measure of Management. This is not only unusual, but also means that the Chamber is forced into another less important position. I would ask Mr Taverne to reflect on that. Is that necessary? Does the profit we gain by regulating it now for the future outweigh the fact that we are about to settle the matter at General Measure of Management? If this law comes through this Chamber, it seems to me that it is also a matter in which the Senate, the Supreme Court, will have serious questions. So why does the initiator come up with this law right now? We will not be doing anything with voting machines for the time being, but I can imagine that in the future, for example, we will proceed to the electronic counting of paper ballots, whether they turn out or not. We don't know when that will happen, but if such a proposal ever comes, I ask the Minister, is it a waste of time if we do not change the law until then? What's the advantage if we change the law now? Will that lead to time savings in the future? I can very well imagine that we are going to discuss such an experiment in detail at that time and that the government or Mr Taverne is putting a legislative process through it for me. Those are the questions I have. Again, I think it is a nice proposal, but I'm afraid it's a little untimely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-25.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Taverne. I know, like no other, how much work this entails and how perseverance you need to have in order to achieve this. I therefore begin by congratulating Mr Taverne. He has tabled a second initiative proposal, and we appreciate that. I now turn to the content of the initiative proposal. As far as we are concerned, it is extremely important that at some point we can vote in such a modern way, digitally, and that these possibilities are safe and reliable. Next week we are probably talking about an experiment with a new model ballot. There were also experiments with central voting. Furthermore, Dutch people abroad are delighted with an e-mailed ballot and a trial of internet votes is being conducted among them. In addition, research is ongoing into the introduction of electronic voices through voice printers and vote counters. It looks at how this process can be set up safely, reliably and user-friendly and what it requires. In addition to this, the experimental law proposed by the initiator does not regulate very much. It is a framework law, a shell, under which a government decision can be suspended. I understand the initiator wants to speed things up. I also hope that we will be able to vote electronically as soon as possible, preferably via the Internet. You also open the door for Dutch people abroad to vote. The first version of the petitioner's proposal also attempted to do so, but unfortunately that element has fallen out and there is not much left in that regard. First of all, I would like to hear from the Minister the latest state of play on this matter. How does he intend to involve Dutch people abroad in experiments with electronic voting? Is it possible to put voice printers and counters on embassies? Is that good and safe to realize already? Back to the pending law. If the Court now adopts a framework law that allows experiments, it will have nothing to say about how transparent, safe, verifiable and reliable it will be. Back to the pending law. If the Court now adopts a framework law that allows experiments, it will have nothing to say about how transparent, safe, verifiable and reliable it will be. As far as my group is concerned, that is the key problem. It also undermines the principle that voting rights are so important and so fundamental that rules on this matter are laid down in the law. My group and the Election Council attach great importance to this. I would also like to mention the urgent need. What exactly is the urgent need, when we do not yet know or discuss the conditions within which experiments are to be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-25.u6	Why can't the Minister's investigation first be waited to see if ballot counters and printers are transparent and reliable? However, thanks to the Expert Group electronic voting and counting, it is already known in the polling room that a voice printer can count on little support. But even if we want to vote electronically, it takes some time to develop and order the equipment. Municipalities will also have to train people. Preparing for elections starts early. In that sense, too, this seems to be premature. If there is broad support for such an experiment, we should first get a substantive and well-motivated law, rather than an experimental initiative law. The expert group already mentioned has examined in detail the specifications for electronic voting and counting. Thereupon she gave a cry of heart. The consequences of ICT in the electoral process are often played down. The election process is more complicated than many people think. The lessons of voting machines have not yet been learned by everyone. Security experts say that they have considerable reservations about voting printers, because of the risk of breaking the voting secret. How do we make sure we're okay now? What conclusions does the initiator draw from these findings? I have a question for the Minister about these risks. The other day he sent a letter about the progress of the new ballot. Does he also specifically investigate the combination of that banknote with an electronic voting counter as a separate variant on the voting printer, combined with the voting counter? I'd like an answer to that. Finally, I assume that the petitioner has spoken with the Minister about the process. This seems to interfere somewhat with the Minister's investigation. Can Minister and initiator indicate what communication there has been about this bill and its timing between government and initiator? What were the conclusions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-25.u7	Mr. Chairman. Mr Taverne is very concerned about the technique of the debate, but a lot less about its spirit. He uses cordon plumbing: he excludes my party when it comes to signing motions. That's his right. He says that he is carrying out his group's policy. Once again, that is his right, but that also gives me the right to doubt his democratic attitude in this matter. I find it strange that, on the initiative of Mr Taverne, we should have a debate on voting machines, but that the spirit of democracy in his hands is a lot less in good hands. My group has noticed that her contribution has been included in the report on the legislative proposal, so it has been received by Mr Taverne, but that it is not mentioned in the note on the report. Mr Taverne has received our contribution, but he has not responded to it. I think that's really weird. Maybe that's part of his cordon plumbing against my party. I have raised a number of issues which Mr Taverne has not responded to. Luckily, we do have the chambermaid. That is the magazine of the employees of the Lower House and of the MPs. Mr Taverne gave an interview on this subject. So I was able to distill some answers along this road. It is nice that the Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst is present, because voting via the computer is quite something. That takes quite a logistical operation. You can't get those computers to the HEMA. They also need to be watched 24 hours a day in their place. They have to be transported to the polling stations as if this were the transfer of the gold stock. You can't ride around with that a little bit. It's a very complicated process. We have twenty electoral circles and various lists in the Netherlands. It's a very complicated case. It is not for nothing that we have introduced voting machines in the past and then abolished them again. We see all over the world that computers are being heavily cheated. SWIFT has been a fraud; Bangladesh's central bank lost just as much as 81 million by using trojans who were able to falsify everything. Foreign powers can break into our voting process. The voting secret is not guaranteed, because these voting machines also store information that can be consulted later. There is a danger of privacy. From a distance, you can watch with computers. From a few meters away you can just follow that. It's also an expensive joke. We have been allowed to attend a briefing in which an amount of EUR 250 million was mentioned at a time. There were industry people who said that wasn't true, but that 250 million is quite something. That is more than the annual AIVD budget. Mr Taverne is asked in the Chamber what his voting system is going to cost, and his answer is: we do not know that now, because it is not legally permitted for industry to produce voting machines. That briefing was attended by all kinds of people who said: we have them on the shelf, so to speak, and we are also prepared to demonster them. I do not understand why there is no price tag on this initiative proposal. That information is easy to follow. So the question is, what problem are we going to solve with this? Mrs. Koşer Kaya already hinted at that. It breathes a bit of the atmosphere: there are computers and these are modern times, so we have to do this too, otherwise we are lagging behind. The most bizarre things, which we all regret now in the Netherlands, have been introduced, because we had to go along with our time and should not be left behind. Today again the Betuweline. There can be no cuts in the staffing of the polling station, because people simply have to go there. The voting booths stay too, because there's got to be computers somewhere. There's no way we're cutting back on the ballots. Moreover, the price of these ballots is very limited, because they are simply printed at the same time as millions. Will older people and disabled people benefit from this? A lot of elderly people have a huge computer fear and are really not waiting to vote via computers. Another advantage would be that the rash is done faster. That's a time saving of maybe four or five hours. I always find it exciting on such an election night that first the results of Klaaswaal arrive, at some point the results of the larger cities and finally the results of Amsterdam; then the SP still gets a few extra seats. Who's waiting for the election results to be announced at 8:00 p.m.? What's the advantage of that? The crucial question is what kind of problem we solve with this. Aren't we gonna bring in a Trojan horse? Don't we create a lot more problems that we might not have when we vote old-fashionedly with that beautiful, romantic red pencil?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-25.u8	Mr. Chairman. It is always worth a compliment when a colleague takes up his role as co-legislator and comes up with an initiative legislative proposal. I would therefore like to offer my sincere congratulations to Mr Taverne and to his support. The PvdA Group is in favour of electronic voting, provided it can be reliable, without excessive costs and safe. The electoral process must be transparent, reliable and accessible. Elections are the basis for political legitimacy, and they must therefore be beyond doubt. We have learned in the past from too much optimism and too little critical thinking in the introduction of electronic voting. We should not make such a mistake again. If the results of elections cannot be fully trusted, we have a very different problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-25.u9	The PvdA Group broadly supported the outcome of the Van Beek Committee's report, on which Mr Taverne's proposal is almost seamlessly in line. In addition, the PvdA Group considers it important that the whole process of reintroducing electronic voices is done carefully and with particular attention to privacy. We must rule out the possibility of fraud involving the voting printers and machines to be tested. We would like to hear how the initiator intends to ensure the safety of the process. Mr Taverne says that the industry wants to know where it stands and that innovation in the field of electronic voting must not stop. Look, that's how we remember the VVD: the industry first. But is this the right guidance? The PvdA wants to guide the process and the objective. It is thinking of reducing the number of invalid votes, promoting the inclusion of votes and promoting self-determination. After all, it is a question of safe voting in a way that is accessible to almost everyone. I said 'almost everyone', because the initiator also admits that for some groups accessibility may become more difficult. After all, there are and remain groups of voters who find it difficult to deal with computers. We just heard some examples. For example, I am also thinking of people with visual disabilities or a disability, whether congenital or not. The PvdA Group believes that all experiments should pay particular attention to this. In the evaluation of the experiments, this should be high on the checklist. Of course, thresholds can be lowered and computer fear can be partially removed by letting people practice with the machines, but not every voter can be reached with this. What does the initiator think about this? We also read that electronic voting will result in less invalid votes. That is what the initiator assures us, and that is also one of the aims of electronic voting. We wholeheartedly support this, because it will also benefit the democratic process. Municipalities can apply to the Minister of the Interior for an experiment, but only if the city council agrees. Joining an experiment will not be free of charge. I am thinking here of practice sessions and additional information. That kind of thing brings a lot of extra costs and burdens for a municipality. Does this not create a threshold for certain municipalities? Is the initiator going to ask for some extra attention? We also want to exclude that fraud can be committed with the voting printers and voting machines to be tested. In the Landerd case in 2006, the president of a polling station was convicted when it appeared that suspiciously many preferred votes had been cast on him. The initiator guarantees that this form of fraud is impossible because the voters themselves put their ballots in the ballot box. On what basis does he base this definite statement? As many of the issues in the proposal are further developed in an AMvB, according to the initiator, rules are also drawn up for releasing the voice printer. For the PvdA Group, it is important that this point be properly dealt with, given the objective that the democratic process should be at the forefront and lead. How does the initiator view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-25.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that the initiator is putting the electronic tools for elections back on the agenda after almost ten years. It is worth a compliment to have this discussion properly. On a number of points, the CDA Group agrees with the author of the initiative proposal that we are discussing today. The CDA Group agrees with the petitioner that electronic tools should be used in elections, both when voting and when counting votes. The CDA Group also agrees with him that the electoral process can be improved. It is a gain if more people with physical disabilities can vote independently, if fewer votes are cast wrongly and if votes are counted faster and with fewer mistakes. The CDA Group also agrees with him that these electronic devices will have to be experimented with. Today, however, we are not at all able to talk about the electronic devices that allow experiments to be carried out. The bill is therefore, in fact, an empty shell. All elaboration should be done in General Management Measures. That doesn't seem like the CDA group is the royal road. The author states that parliamentary involvement in the content of the experiments has been secured by a pending procedure. His main argument is to save time. A careful legislative process takes him far too long. That is not a convincing argument, given the almost four years that the initiative proposal is already in process. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, the use of electronic devices is not an end in itself. A fair and transparent electoral process is indispensable for confidence in politics. That is why we cannot simply experiment with elections. This takes time, but certainly care. The Election Council was right to point that out. Not for nothing is the rule that everything relating to the right to vote must be regulated by law. This is precisely about the fine print. The Corthals Altes Committee has formulated eight safeguards that the electoral process must comply with. These include transparency, accountability and voting secrecy. The Court itself will have to examine whether these safeguards are met in an orderly legislative process. An orderly legislative process involves an orderly consultation process. What does the Council of State think of the current bill? After all, the author has completely redrafted his original proposal. The CDA Group needs an opinion from the Council of State on the proposal as it stands. Last week, the VNG sent the initiator a response to the current proposal. Through Parlis we have not yet received this advice. Is that right? The UNG stresses in its opinion that no structural electronic voting is currently taking place in any country. The risks are not yet sufficiently clear and the question is how the cost-benefit analysis will turn out. You can't do elections again. That is why we cannot afford to make mistakes in elections, according to the UNG. How does the applicant assess its opinion? Haste rush is rarely good. That goes all the way for the Tickets Act. The petitioner shall give the Minister the necessary homework. How does that relate to the steps already taken by the Minister? How far has the Minister himself come in drawing up the recommendations of the Van Beek Commission? Does he think that this initiative legislative proposal is actually complete without further content? The CDA Group is not convinced that the initiative legislative proposal, in its current form, brings the use of electronic tools in the electoral process in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-25.u11	However much I know that Mr Taverne is eager to answer, it is going to take a little longer. We've come to the end of the Chamber's input. At a later date, the answer will follow in the first period and the second period.
