ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Slowly but surely we crawl out of the biggest crisis after World War II. Our economy is growing again. Public finances are better. Both consumer confidence and producer confidence are increasing. The purchasing power cards are better than they have been in years. The number of jobs is increasing and unemployment is falling. Yet too many people are still standing aside against their will. We must therefore do everything we can to increase their chances at work, for example through better personal guidance by the UWV. It is good that the Minister has recently made additional funds available for this purpose. Where there are opportunities, they must also be taken, for example by returning work to the Netherlands. It is a good thing that the cabinet is also working on this by encouraging the so-called reshoring "the Chamber" to know that I am a great supporter of this, but also by jumping into opportunities just across the border, in Belgium and in Germany. Because there are opportunities there. We talk about that regularly in the Chamber. For example, during the last budget debate of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, my colleague Mrs Nijkerken-De Haan and I tabled a motion to release EUR 2 million for the mediation of people to cross-border jobs. Last weekend, in the news, trade unions and employers, together with the border regions, agreed on the promotion of frontier work under the sectoral plans, with concrete numbers of people. Hundreds of people are helped to get to work. The PvdA likes this news, especially for the people who can find a job now. It is a good thing that extra efforts are being made and that extra investment is being made. However, I would like to stress the importance of proper prior information. Working across borders can and will be a solution for many people, but they do have to deal with other rules, Belgian rules, German rules, Dutch rules and European rules. Those are also complex rules, because let's face it: we haven't made it easy for all of us. Where do you build your pension, what happens when you get sick, where are you insured for and for what? Successful mediation involves good prior information, tailored to the needs of the people and the circumstances of the case. I ask the Minister if he agrees with me. I also ask the Minister whether he agrees with me that we are in the happy situation in the Netherlands that we have a number of bodies that excel in it. I am referring here to the Bureau for Belgian Affairs and the Bureau for German Affairs of the Social Insurance Bank. I assume the Minister agrees with me. The previous cabinet wanted to abolish these offices. I'm just saying it was simple. Thanks to the Chamber, this has been prevented and the Office for Belgian Affairs and the Office for German Affairs can continue for the time being, to the great satisfaction of frontier workers, potential employers and trade unions. The importance and opportunities of frontier work are now widely recognised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u2	Do you want a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u3	I'd love to. I'm almost done with my first questions. Motions in the Chamber but also the plan presented last weekend bear witness to that. I therefore ask the Minister whether he is prepared to allow the Office for Belgian Affairs and the Office for German Affairs of the Social Insurance Bank to play a clear role in all the activities which are now being undertaken to stimulate frontier work. That would provide more certainty, even for the future, because opportunities across borders are not suddenly over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. We do believe that there are good opportunities for people to get to work. Unemployment is high in some areas of the border regions, but there are job vacancies that are difficult to fill just across the border. We know it's not easy to work across the border. It is therefore important for people to be accompanied, in terms of language and culture. Information should also be provided. Experiences with the Pentasz project, on which Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan and Mr Kerstens pointed in the budget treatment, are taught. Mrs Schouten, too, has often drawn attention to the opportunities of frontier work and the obstacles that exist. To inform people well and personally is part of the approach in the sector plan, the initiative of trade unions and employers. I hope to learn from this, too, so that a larger group of workers can then be able to overcome obstacles and get people to work right across the border. The Office for Belgian Affairs and the Office for German Affairs of the Social Insurance Bank have genuine specialist knowledge. What does it mean for me personally by arrangement? This knowledge remains available through the border information points where people can contact with questions about border work. If they come up with a complicated question, it will be passed on to the specialists of the Social Insurance Bank. We'll keep them at their posts, at least until 2018. Then we will look into what could be a new role for those specialists now that border work is developing more. I am convinced that good information, knowing where you stand and what the advantages and disadvantages per person are, remains important to take advantage of these wonderful opportunities of living in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u5	I am pleased to hear that the Minister also thinks that successful mediation should be preceded by good information, especially when it comes to frontier work with all the complex questions involved. I know that the Office for Belgian Affairs and the Office for German Affairs until, say, 2018 was kept in the air thanks to the Chamber and that an evaluation is taking place. My specific question to the Minister is: would it not be wise, knowing that frontier work remains a phenomenon and knowing that the agencies really meet a need, to bring forward the evaluation and to make a choice earlier to give them more opportunities in the future, or at least to give them future? Is the Minister otherwise willing to extend the funding beyond 2018? It would be a real shame to throw away the chicken with the golden eggs, as it is called, too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u6	We are now living in the beginning of 2016. We are working on the sector plan to get 800 people out of businesses or out of benefits from next month, right across the border. That's wonderful news for those people. Good information is part of this. When I come back to the sector plans, I will report to the Chamber on how things are going. Then I can also show what happened to Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan and Mr Kerstens' motion. In this context, information returns as an important part of helping people find work across borders. Until 2018 we have plenty of time to find out how to do that well. I fully agree with Christmas that it is also very important in the future, even if rules become simpler, for people to know where they stand when they start working in Belgium or in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u7	Together with Mr Schouten, I have tabled several motions to make working across borders attractive. I am pleased to see that the Minister has been actively involved in this. Until June 1st, an action team will be active. Is the Minister willing to let that action team go on for a year? I do not see that in the letter, but perhaps the Minister would like to do so and would like to do so today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u8	I apologize to Mrs. Mulder for not mentioning her just now. It is true that broad attention is being paid in the Chamber to the opportunities of frontier work. I also get that back from a lot of regions that are suffering from high unemployment. That action team is very important for that. Before the deadline of the action team expires, I hope to report to the Chamber on how the sector plan works. I can think of that with Mrs Mulder and other Members of the Chamber as a good next step. Maybe that's extension of the action team. I certainly don't rule that out. Maybe you can shape the cooperation in a more structural way. If the approach turns out to really work for 800 people, it offers potential for many more job seekers. Then maybe we don't need that action team. So I am not ruling it out, but let us consider it as one of the possibilities we are looking at in the follow-up to this really promising journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u9	I read that the plan has been successful if 600 people go to work, and that for EUR 10 million, to be achieved over a two-year period. Only 15% of the routes concerned are people who are helped to work from the assistance. Does the Minister consider that the costs and benefits are in balance and that this plan is ambitious enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u10	We are talking about a greater number of people and it is not just about people in welfare but also about people in the WW. In the aftermath of the crisis, many people who have ended up in the WW are dying to get to work and are not finding it enough. This plan involves 800 people, but I have said from the outset that we need to learn from it to help larger groups get to work. Then you know that there are more people in the border regions who are in the WW or the assistance and who can benefit from the experience of this sector plan. So yes, I think it is proportionate, because it takes more to get people to work in Belgium or Germany, because of the obstacles we know. But let's do it in such a way that after that we can see the benefits for a larger group of people. In the end, more people come to work from the benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u11	First of all, let me say that I am pleased that the problem of employment in border regions is at last on the back of the cabinet. It is a good thing that an action team is already working on it. The problem is not new; it has been going on for years. Mrs Mulder and I have been working on this for a very long time, but the regions have been doing so for a long time. The regions themselves have already made many plans, for example Square for Work in the Emmen region. It also happened in East Groningen and Zeeland-Flanders. I hope, however, that this action team does not mean imposing all kinds of new plans from above, but that it is precisely the intention to join all those initiatives that already exist in the regions, which know the situation very well. I hope that way more people will be helped to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u12	I can reassure Mrs Schouten. It is true that we are not thinking here about how to do this, but that the seven border provinces are making more promising initiatives from regions, municipalities and in this case. There will also be funding. The trade union movement is putting money into it, the employers are putting money into it and the regions are working on it. I mentioned the successful Pentasz approach from South Limburg. In recent years, I have learned more examples. The purpose of this is precisely to strengthen it, to make it concrete and to link it to ambitions that we can reconnect to individual people who are dying to get to work. Then it can take place on a larger scale. So I think we are responding to the wishes expressed by Mrs Schouten, Mrs Mulder and many others here. Make more of that and put that energy into it. It does cost more money, because you have to make more effort to get people to work there. I expect a lot of that.
