ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Fyra Committee. On Tuesday, the Chamber discussed the report in the first term. Today, the chairman of the Fyra Committee will reply in the first term and answer the questions asked. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. May I first of all thank the spokesmen for all the compliments, comments and many questions? During the first term of office, it became clear how much interest in this dossier is and how much interest in the railways is among the passengers. It was very pleasant to see the great involvement in our research and the interest in our results. You have sent us on the road, and we have been pleased to work with it, in the interests of the traveller. That was our focus from the beginning. We are now concluding this investigation with a debate with you, but you can be sure that your spokesmanship has aroused our interest. This is a very interesting subject which we, as spokesmen, had hardly been in touch with. We have seen what a wonderful task you have every time on this file. It is also a pleasure to be back in your midst, because we realise that, on the basis of the debate we are having today, you will return to the debate with the government. In the end, that is the crown of our work, that we can see what is being done with our recommendations and conclusions. We have also found it very special and nice not to look up the differences, but to look at what binds us. We would like to share that with the Chamber. How do you arrive at a common conclusion and common recommendations? In this political arena, we always look at what separates us. The elections are coming up now, and that gap will always get bigger. This is a very nice opportunity to take a look at what binds us. That's very valuable. Thank you for that. The Chamber has quite rightly been so gracious about our staff. They're back around us now, partly behind us and partly in the civil servants' lodge. They're all so much involved in this subject! They each made a crucial contribution to our research from their own expertise. Let me say something about this in response to what Mr Madlener said: has this research been kept within his budget? In the end, we will draw up the accounts properly, as we did in the interim, but I can already say that this is absolutely the case. We have plenty of money left. We also really watched the money very carefully. The largest cost, over 80%, is the labour costs for our staff, whether they are people who have been internally lent to the committee or who have flown in externally. That's the budget. I also say immediately how wonderful it is that various organisations want to take responsibility for our parliamentary work. These people are usually posted. Companies and organisations have therefore been willing to give people ample time to work for the Chamber. I am talking about the General Court of Auditors, the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure, the Research Council for Security and the Vrije Universiteit. All these organizations have lent our great staff to us in order to do the job. We thank them very much for that. The nice thing is that we also managed to keep a few for our beautiful company. Not everyone has returned or gone elsewhere. We have also managed to get a number of people in our midst. That's very special. That is again profit from our survey in itself. I am now moving on to our own research, to the findings, conclusions and, indeed, the recommendations. When we started with the question "Why didn't the intended transport come about?', We saw that many people already had an answer ready. Of course, you can have different views and approach routes. However, we saw that people were very quick with their judgments, for example with the judgment: they simply should never have bought a train in Italy, especially from a builder who has never built a fast train. That was the image we read. The NS would have bought the cheapest train and we all know: cheap is expensive? We have often seen this reasoning again. Or: it's all because of the market, that's the cause of everything, that's why the place is derailed. These are all statements that we read at the start of our investigation. It was up to us to find out, on the basis of the facts, what actually happened to ensure that the intended transport was not carried out. Of course, if the Fyra had not been removed from service, the transport would not have been carried out. That would be a simple blow. Then the question remains whether that was the intended transport. That must then be looked at. We have of course seen that if the train stops driving, there is an answer to the question. However, that is not yet the case. Mr Hoogland was right to ask whether the train was not too complex, whether it was not a mission impossible. Mrs Van Veldhoven has asked if ERTMS is not unnecessarily complicated. That can be all, and it was also very complex, but that does not necessarily mean that it would have been impossible. The committee has seen no reason to say that it was completely impossible to do so, including with regard to safety systems. After all, there is also a Thalys. It is therefore doubtful whether the assignment was completely impossible. We do know that Ansaldo Breda did not manage to deliver a train within the time limit that met everyone's expectations. At least that's clear. What has been involved in this? Definitely the time pressure. Of course that sounds a bit crazy when we think that it took five years before that train finally drove. It's crazy that we can still talk about time pressure. Still, there was time pressure. Of course, we went to see where that time pressure came from. It was motivated, among other things, by financial reasons. Money had to be made on a journey and a train had to run over it. Then you want that train, too. Time pressure certainly played a role. We also looked at that transport right for which a huge amount of money was paid. So that's what caused it? How did you deal with that? Then you're gonna move on and analyze it back to that tender. What made the amount so awfully high? We have seen that at least the NS had everything to do with the right to transport. There's also a huge amount of money paid for it. I'm sure the Chamber will remember the interrogations on this matter. So we slowly but surely crawled back in time, from the train that didn't do it anymore to what has actually gone before; what were the building blocks that led to the end result of "not the intended transport"? In this context, we have seen the picture of all those transport ministers who are extremely enthusiastic about the need for rapid transport between the big cities: together they have to bear the brunt of it. In the end, we saw what that "together the shoulders underneath" meant in an international context. That was extremely disappointing. Once we had gotten a pretty sharp picture of all those different links that eventually resulted in the intended transport not being achieved, we clearly realized that there was a kind of blanket over it and that there was something to distill out: there was a lot underneath it. Moving along, walking through that situation, we found that all parties had mainly flown the business out of their own interest. These interests were also quite contradictory in certain respects. We see the state's interest in recouping the investment. That, of course, is where the desire to organise a kind of tender began. We see the importance of the NS not allowing other carriers to compete on the railways. The importance of the NS became very important. We see the interest of the Belgians not to allow competition for a transport in which they had their own interest. We also see the financial troubles at the railways in Belgium. Then we see the importance of the NS when it became very financially complicated not to get involved in the cards, so that the State did not really get a look at the financial problems. We also saw that within the NS the interests were sometimes contradictory: a "filialization" as the Belgians can call it so beautiful. We'll discuss it in a moment, but we're also talking about NSFSC, for example, the company that finally bought the trains. You can also see the different interests within our government, from the different departments. Those who deal with transport and those who deal with money all have their own interests. I would also like to mention today, above all, the importance of Ansaldo Breda to get a foothold in transport in North-West Europe. That is also of great importance. We have seen the interests involved in the game between Chamber and Cabinet, especially the information position of the Chamber. I'll come back to this in great detail. So we see that there are all kinds of partial answers imaginable. However, if you fully understand it, one analysis is actually rising above it, namely that one's own interests, the other interests have always prevailed over the interest that was once so clearly expressed by those transport ministers: we are going to do something for that traveller; that traveller must be able to be transported internationally. That means that we have come to the main conclusion. We have seen that there can be accents; we have worked all this out in partial conclusions. In the end, we have come to the main conclusion that it was actually a major conflict of interest. We have tried to make that clear to you. It is, of course, very pleasant for a parliamentary committee of inquiry to see that the Chamber is right to ask how we are going to proceed. A lot of the questions were focused on that. How do we proceed, whether or not we operate on the market? Then how do we prevent this conflict of interest? How do we think the track could be used better? Then why does this committee still believe in a possible positive attitude on the part of the Belgians? As Mrs Van Veldhoven has made clear, in the first term we have given a nasty insight into how totally inaccessible our southern neighbours sometimes wish to be. Then why do we still see what's going on? What lessons are there to draw from the whole system around this tender? How can we ensure that certification and authorisation can ultimately lead to a safe train? And not insignificant, especially in this house: what about our own information position? What success could we make in that? Those were actually the important questions. Of course, I will weave the various partial questions in our answer, but we have listened above all to some of the main points of the Chamber. How does the committee view that? This is because the Chamber wants to continue with the cabinet, which is the crown of our work for us. The first point is market forces, the word that is always linked to our research. For three reasons, we indicated that we did not formulate the final answers on market forces. I briefly mention these reasons and work them out: the interpretation of market forces; one case, a non-driving train over a route; the n=1 researchers immediately know what I mean; and the fact that it is a political choice. It is important that we give the Chamber some handles: how can you look at it, what can you do with it if you look at our research? I'll explain that further. Let's start with the interpretations. We have heard the word'market forces' 45 times in the first term of the Chamber. We have also heard at once how many different interpretations are given. Is this about privatisation of the Dutch Railways or is it self-determination? Should a relationship be established with division or cooperation between NS and ProRail? Is this only about public procurement, or should we also look at direct grants and ways in which you might be able to recover infrastructure? Is it a level playing field, or is it other parties? These are all kinds of reasonings that are rightly indicated. They are all aspects of the great concept of market forces. But that has already made it difficult for us as a committee to talk about'market forces'. That is a first reason why it is difficult for us to say that the conclusion is: the market must operate in this way. Another reason is very important. I already called it "n=1." It would be almost presumptuous for a parliamentary committee of inquiry into one train that does not work, on one track, to say: on this basis we are going to tell the Chamber about the future of public transport. I understand the wish very well. As a committee, of course, we have seen all kinds of times: it could be different and it is better arranged there. At the same time, we realized that we were given an assignment from your Chamber. From our Chamber, you should actually say as a parliamentary committee of inquiry, because at the same time we are also part of the Chamber. We have set out a task with each other to look at why this intended transport has not been carried out. It is remarkable to say with a brief blow that we think that this is the solution, when we have actually only examined one case. And, the main cause is: it's a real political choice. But I'll work it out in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	That's an introduction to my question. The Chamber is hopelessly divided over the future of the railways, at least in terms of market forces. Europe was. Europe has embarked on a path of privatisation and market forces, which are actually leaving again. But in committee I see the same political parties that do not emerge in the Chamber. My question is what really is the role of the committee. Is it now up to all these political differences to look at the best solution or have these differences also led to political divisions in committee and has the committee not been able to answer the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	I immediately wrote down Mr Madlener's words, 'hopelessly divided'. I can say immediately that this committee was not hopelessly divided. But I do not think that the Chamber should be hopelessly divided either. What is happening here in committee is that we are looking at a theme from different angles. The nice thing about a parliamentary committee of inquiry is that for a long time you are not really very busy with your own political position. That makes it possible for everyone, for that reason alone, to look at it much more considerately. I can tell you quite clearly that the committee was not divided on this issue. Of course, the various Members have their own political perspective, but it is precisely in order to see what has happened that we have come to these steps. For this committee, the following was the most important thing. 1. What is market functioning? 2. Since it's one train, one track, do you have to tell the Chamber what's going on? Then we realise very well that it is a very politically loaded subject. Sometimes, as a committee of inquiry, you can take a step towards making a slight recommendation. We found that way with each other, but we came out surprisingly well when it comes to how we look at things. When we asked ourselves whether this was true for the whole of transport, we were right to have a debate, because some say that in our regions things are going very well with the different parties on the track. Then someone else comes and says, "I was there the other day and it was pretty complicated." You're not worth a slap in the face if you can't really do a good research on that, but you're gonna tell the Chamber, "So fix it this way"? So we've had to limit ourselves. Surprisingly, that had nothing to do with division at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	So I understand that the committee does not consider this example of the Fyra, in which it was so wrong between different parties, to be representative of what is wrong on the track and that it does not, therefore, say anything about the future and the choices that the Chamber has to make in order to deal with these problems in the years to come? The parties have different views. Some say that we should not go down the road of moving parts away, of splitting ProRail and NS, and of further privatisation and market forces. We have parties who say that we must do so. The VVD and D66 want that. And we have the CDA, the party of Mrs Van Toorenburg, which says: let's skip a little bit in the middle as we do now. That's pretty much the image of what's living in the Chamber. That question was a little out of the way for the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	No, we did not avoid that question, because we see that it is very complicated. But only looking at this case, we see that was originally thought: we are going to put the NS at a distance; it must be more a company. Then that company started acting like a company and there were all kinds of problems, but then it was so tied up that the problems of the NS became the problems of the State. What we have seen above all is that an apparent choice was made that was not actually a choice made. Then everyone started mopping. There are all the time different consequences of behavior than the consequences that come with a particular choice, and then throw that whole choice aside, push NS to the chest and solve the problems. At least what you shouldn't do is make a political choice at the beginning and then look at how to complete that choice. You have to think very much in scenarios. We are not the ones who have to make a political choice, but think of it as a process and answer the question of how to ensure that, if you do something, you know what its consequences are. So act consistently on that and know where you want to come out. I'm sure you'll think about the risks. If they occur, have thought in advance about what you're going to do. And look at the game between the different departments. For example, we have tried to give the Chamber some tools to be able to make the choice and not sink into a indeed hopeless swamp of political differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	I think your introduction to date has been clear and not yet fully completed. Since Mr Madlener is opening this debate, I would like to ask a question about it. Maybe you'll come back to it later. You're sketching four scenarios. I understand very well that you think it is presumptuous, and thank you for the explanation. As mentioned above, the report lists the four scenarios that can be investigated, including all intermediate forms. Then you de facto come to: explore all possibilities. Why, in that light, was it still chosen to mention those four scenarios? Or do I misinterpret "and all intermediate forms"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	That's what's happening in the public debate that's started. Even if you make a choice, you should have moments in between to take a good look at it. Therefore, analyze what the intermediate forms mean. You do it either as a private transport party, or as different parties, or as a transport service "to the chest" we have explained that also considering what you can do in the intermediate forms. You know that on our Dutch network you remain highly dependent on each other. Then get over there. It's important that you run the different scenarios. If you don't do that very sharply, you won't end up doing it, which is actually a missed opportunity. That's why we say make those scenarios very clear. I have already mentioned the different interpretations of market forces, the n=1 problem and the political choice to be made. So I don't have to explain that any further. As a committee, we would really find it a missed opportunity if we sent the Chamber into the woods by saying: look, this is a nice case, figure it out. That's our honor too. That is why we have indicated the lessons to be drawn from this HSL-South case, where you can see that the problems of market forces have played a role. So make a very clear choice about the layout of the track and I indicated the following in an interrupting debate: trade consistently and coherently. Make sure you don't sail a wandering course when things are a little off, because you've gotten so tied up with each other. These are longer periods of time, so that complex situations can arise over time. You then, as this file shows, almost from the delusion of the next day acting, which is not good. It is precisely now that we can think about what we are doing after this concession and how we can make sure that we do it better. I see a number of Members looking at me questioning me, referring to the 2008 Memorandum of Understanding. Then you saw very clearly that suddenly a different course was being sailed. So there are some very important moments ahead and we know that this concession will end eventually. Get right on that. Mr Madlener was right to point out that there will be quite a fight in the coming months. We are going to get elections, but there will of course come a time when we will return here as Chambers and make sure that we do resolve it in a decent and orderly way. Let's take the time to work it out. In the end, a careful process needs to be carried out around 2018 to see how these scenarios can relate to each other and how best to set that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	The committee has deliberately made this recommendation, perhaps also in order to prevent the Chamber from coming forward with all sorts of motions in the political debate on this matter in order to get things right again. Then maybe you'll get what you have now, which is a scenario that's not fully worked out. The committee is therefore very consciously advising to take the time and to develop a number of scenarios, so that you will indeed find a coherent structure. That is a very important recommendation, and I ask the chairman of the committee to confirm it. In addition: take your time, but not too long. Perhaps you should take six months to a year for that, in the run-up to the end of the present concession, to set everything in motion properly in view of the structure which the Chamber then intends to achieve in a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mrs De Boer clearly formulates the committee's thinking. It is also very nice to see that there are many people standing up around this debate to say how they look at it. I can very well imagine that you are using that knowledge and expertise together with the cabinet. We have also seen that the Secretary of State really wants to roll up the sleeves and solve this. The Chamber will then look at it with a great deal of interest. The spark skips and the question is how to anchor it well for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	I think that the committee's advice is to the Chamber not to allow this to take years but to have it thoroughly examined for six months to one year and to have different scenarios worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	Absolutely. If we can't do it in six months to a year, we'll take a little longer for that. It doesn't have to be with steam and boiling water, because you better do it very well than you'll have to act again later because you didn't get something quite sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	The period from six months to one year may also be in line with the midterm review of the concession. Then we could take steps in 2019. Is the committee now saying that during this concession period there is nothing more you can do for the traveller, and that it is only about the period after that? That's what Mrs. De Boer was just asking about. Or does the committee say: if you can take that time, could you also see in 2019 if you can get more out of it for the traveller in the period 2019 to 2025? So I would like to have a clarification of the committee's recommendation on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	If the Chamber focuses on this with all its energy, knows how to involve everyone, gets the cabinet on the line and she really knows that everything has been thought about, who are we to say: sit on your hands for a while longer. I think it's very ambitious. I am more interested in what Mrs Van Veldhoven says about what we can do for the traveller. I think there are other things that can be done. I'll talk to you about that in a minute. I don't think it's either or and you can only mean something to the traveller when you've solved the situation surrounding the market as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	Clear. But Mrs Van Toorenburg herself said in her introduction that there are a lot of different interpretations of the term "market operation." Let me make it clear: it is about the possibility of giving other companies the chance to take the hsl. Does the committee say that, provided that this is properly thought out, it is in principle something that could be done during this period? Or has the committee in its investigation actually come to the conclusion that, given the discussions you have to have to do so carefully, this is not a viable map?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	I think it's definitely possible. This is also apparent from the whole discussion; we are going to talk about this. However, it is not up to the committee to say: do this or do that. However, if we ask the Chamber to take a good look at this, it is important that it includes all the scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	The traveler is in the cold. That's what we read in the report. The main conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry is that it was mainly a competition between the State and the NS. My question is in line with Mrs Van Veldhoven's questions. The crux of the matter is that the traveller is still in the cold. How are we all going to ensure that it is no longer in the cold but in a warm and very fast train? Does the committee go into the position of the NS: should it be able to continue to drive on that expensive HSL line? Is the NS the right place to keep doing this? Regardless of whether you opt for market operation or any other scenario, perhaps all the way back to the State, the question is whether NS, in any scenario, is the right company to take advantage of our main rail network, on which passengers stay in the cold every time. It's not just the hsl.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	We only go over the hsl, let that be said immediately. Our main recommendation is that the HSL should be better used. If the NS is able to provide a better service and offer more and if our cabinet can come out together with the Belgians, so that there can be a proper ride as intended, then that is worth a sweet thing. It can also be done by another company, but that's not our concern. Our core point is as follows. Beside an expensive Thalys or a bus that is faster for decent transportation along that route. This brings me to a point which I will go into in detail, namely how to make better use of transport. Again, it's not up to us to say "that's not allowed with the NS." However, we say that what is now being offered as a full alternative is not complete as far as the committee is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you to Mrs Van Toorenburg for her introduction. In fact, the word "market forces" was at the heart of this. Hasn't the Empire actually put the NS in a particular position, which is why the main conclusion of the report is that it has become a conflict of interest? The interest should have been the public interest. In the 1990s, choices were made that contributed to the fact that at some point there were all kinds of conflicting interests. Does the committee draw that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u20	Yes, the committee concludes that's where it started. The focus was therefore placed on the huge amount that had to be recovered. This has provoked strategic behaviour, which is why this is the first sentence in the explanatory statement to our conclusions. However, we are dealing with a fully-fledged company which has dealt with this in a certain way. The committee is also strongly critical of this. Of course, that doesn't mean that you're throwing over a strategic offer that you already know you can't never make. It is then up to the State not to accept this knowledge. That's how it's moving on. It starts with the focus on the fact that money has to be recovered, a huge amount. That the Dutch Railways have acted on this in their own way is also reprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u21	Okay, I can follow this reasoning. The committee comes up with a number of scenarios. Part of what is proposed, I think, has already been done within the framework of the long-term railway agenda. A scenario should be: go back to where we were before the 1990s. In answering the actual questions I see a small mouse hole to take the HSL-South out of the main rail network and then to go back to contracting. I think you're back to square one. We'll have another survey in 10 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u22	In my opinion, our colleague is trying in a very charming way to seduce the parliamentary committee of inquiry to say that we should go back to a certain way. That may be the best, but that's not up to us. Let us work out those scenarios that Mr Smaling rightly says are already very important building blocks for each other, precisely because certain problems have arisen in that focus on money. So take that with you, too. Take the issues of this research when you analyze those scenarios and maybe we come up with a scenario that is the view of the SP fraction, but perhaps on a different scenario. It must be properly analysed and we should not be asked to tell the Chamber what scenario we think is best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u23	I have another question about the division in the Chamber and perhaps in committee. Mrs Van Toorenburg says that it has actually played no part in the conclusions. Now I would like to mention a newspaper article by the day before yesterday, which Mrs Van Toorenburg probably knows. In that article, an anonymous person at this committee says: "The Fyra Committee was too divided to be harshly judged. What do you think: with VVD'er Ton Elias and SP'er Henk van Gerven in one committee. They are directly opposite each other on such an idealistic subject as market operation." Because he's anonymous, I can't control this, but hasn't this really affected judgment or not? I must honestly say that there is no hard assessment of this market operation, so that is actually strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u24	I am very pleased that Mr Madlener is asking this question, because I have, of course, read it. When I read it, I thought, "How far could you have gone from the committee to think this?" Let that be the answer: the person who has said something about this really knows nothing about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u25	So, Mr Madlener!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u26	I think we've said enough about the scenarios for now. Perhaps we can deal with a few points about the roles of the State, because of course there have been serious questions about this as well. Mr Hoogland has also indicated that at some point the shareholdership has shifted. For the committee, it was particularly interesting to see that it was a very passive shareholdership at first. We have asked critical questions about this in the public hearings, because at some point the shareholdership just seemed to mean almost nothing. At some point it shifted to Finance and then it became at least a more active shareholder. We have actually heard all those involved in the public interviews say that this shift was a profit, because then you saw more clearly what really had to happen. The scenarios also show that it is very complicated in terms of the roles of the State. When a company encounters financial problems, the financial problem lies with the way we organized it, with the Ministry of Transport. If it is otherwise arranged, the financial problem lies with the Ministry of Finance. At the end of the day it's just one big financial problem for everyone we work hard for every day. These aspects must therefore be taken into account. I come now to another important point, which Mr Van Vliet has already given us a start, namely the better use of the hsl. That point has rightly been made very clearly by everyone. With the planological core decision, in which thought was given to how to ensure that your people would be transported internationally in a good way, great goals were set at the time. They also wanted to be able to mean something at national level, but it was mainly about the international aspect and the connection of cities like Amsterdam, Brussels and Rotterdam and perhaps even more: Paris and the Hague was also a wish at certain times. At the end of the day, a fast line was chosen that could be driven very quickly, namely 300 km/h. That thought was created. Of course, there has been a lot of discussion about this in the Chamber: should it actually be 300 km/h, because why do you have to drive 300 km/h from Amsterdam to Rotterdam? After the start you can actually immediately press the brake again. However, it has been chosen to remain as flexible as possible. As far as the concession is concerned, there has been a very clear discussion about this speed. In the end, it was decided to let something less good be enough. We are now quite rightly being asked why we believe that the transport that is currently being offered as a so-called full alternative is insufficient. We are looking at what was originally intended for this line. The aim was to establish international connections with many trains. Preferably let us be very critical about this, we would have talked about it, also with the whole Fyra project, that people who would decide to go on a journey could do so at some point. If you want to do it a little fast and buy a ticket the day after tomorrow, you pay a lot of money. If you think of it much longer in advance, it's cheaper. When we wanted to take note of a number of things, including abroad, we lost €180 to go back and forth, by the way, Mr Madlener, on our own account. Let that be said. We can smile about that; what does it matter to us? You spend that, but of course there are a lot of people who just can't afford it. Of course, this flexibility is particularly important. We've talked to people about this, and we've seen this on the Internet fora. Of course, there are a lot of contacts between the Randstad and Belgium. If you have an important meeting until 5:00 p.m., if you have to return at 6:00 p.m. with the Thalys and if that meeting ends for 15 minutes, you can't take the next Thalys. None of that can be done; that was never invented. It was precisely this flexibility that was very important at that time. We do not really need an in-depth investigation to establish that what was then conceived is now not being offered. We have also seen that something has been nibbled off each time. At first it was also about The Hague. That fell out and then came back in, but in the end The Hague turned out to have disappeared in all kinds of arrangements. That has not been communicated very clearly with the Chamber. Gradually there are already some steps taken, like less often driving but also on other points. However, let us congratulate ourselves on the fact that what can be done on the HSL is quite in order internally. As far as this committee is concerned, the problems are mainly in the international sphere. There would be 32 fast trains a day to Brussels, 16 of which would go on to Paris. The arrangements are now: 16, and 9 to Paris, and sometimes not even completely. That's half of what it's supposed to be. The Benelux plus train actually takes longer. We found that the most deceptive. This is also an answer to Mr Hoogland, who asked: what surprised you? That's why that train takes longer than before the whole hsl was built. That's kind of crazy. If you want to move people internationally quickly, do so. However, if you live in Rotterdam and want to go shopping for a day, you can easily be in Utrecht in 35 minutes. Do you want to have a cup of coffee first, then you get on a train later. And if you want to go back, you go back. But if you want to go to Antwerp, you have a huge challenge. Then why is that? That is not what we want with each other in Europe, is it? Oh, come on. I think that's very important. I might bring this a little populist.. I realize that but you can also look at it very tight and businesslike. We had a few tight targets, namely making the Randstad reachable and making sure that people get off the plane and get on the train. Mrs Van Tongeren was right to make a comment about this. It was a legitimate wish not to burden the environment unnecessarily. With a good international train connection you can make sure that people don't go flying and not all by car stove in succession. In the end, we have created the situation in which there is not the offer that has been agreed. It's a shame to say that we wouldn't have been there with what the Fyra had been, because the Fyra only drove for a while. When he got out, people were very angry. I remember the forums. We did an analysis of how that went back then. It was a huge wish; everyone was looking forward to it. If you have a good offer, you also create a demand. So in the end, there was a huge interest. Then the Fyra flew out and everyone was pretty depressed. And if it was never put down in a decent way, how can you say it was full transport? If we had organized more market demand, perhaps other companies could have presented themselves to offer something. We know there were several providers. There have been commitments to speak with this, but there have also been commitments to do so. We very much regret that. We cannot, of course, talk about what the Secretary of State has already shared with the Chamber, but she has already said, fortunately, that she also thinks that we should look at how we can make better use of this. Our thought has been continuous: how can we better serve our traveler?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u27	I share the committee's conclusion that the transport originally envisaged was not carried out. We share that conclusion, but how should we proceed in the future? The committee shall make a recommendation to that effect. She is not talking about the amount of trains and how much cheaper, so I would like a reflection on that. I believe that a better offer can only be made if you ask it out in the market. The main key performance indicator is: how can you attract more passengers on this journey and what does the market offer? Can the committee confirm that that's the only way to find out? The committee does not quantify its recommendations on this point. I also hear the chairman say: at 300 km/h you have to brake again immediately. Do we need high-speed trains in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u28	We know there are parties who have raised their finger. We cannot judge whether these are real requests. We cannot go into that, but it is important that all kinds of possibilities are already sought to better serve the traveller. Trains have been purchased. If you don't stop those trains at the Belgian border when they start driving, but with the Belgians to see if you can cross the border, I think you're a lot further. We believe, in particular, that you cannot simply say that it is complete if you have not made a serious analysis. Why is what is now a first step? Then take a serious look. Check with any other parties. Make sure with those who have now bought the trains that they can continue to Belgium. That brings me to the other point to which the Chamber has rightly asked. Why do we believe that there is still a possibility of getting out with the Belgians? It will not be easy, because the Belgians have interests, but we think that we should keep trying to get out of it together, so that we can finally get through to international connections. We must do the same because, as we have pointed out to the Chamber, we are paying EUR 375 million to the Belgians for the route. Then we must not drive over it. Hello! That is what we must continue to discuss. We need each other on a lot of files. Then it's a bit too bad to go with the legs in the air and leave it that way. There is also an agreement that the Netherlands will pay Belgium an amount for any losses on the international piece. If you make it unattractive, the amount may be much higher. We must therefore continue to think economically and ensure that the train continues to operate internationally. Once again, we cannot answer directly the question of whether we are dissatisfied with the use of rail in the national section. Trains have been purchased. That is why you should try to ensure that you can continue to international destinations in an international context. That was the reason for the hsl, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u29	I wonder how we're gonna do that. How do we find out what the ideal offer is? I think I heard the chairman of the committee say at the beginning of her reply that you should ask another question in the market. I think, and I share that with the committee, that is also the only way to find out what the optimal transport for the traveller looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u30	A commitment has been made to the Chamber that everyone is spoken to, including the one who is doing it now and who has made a serious effort to serve the traveller, the Dutch Railways. She's doing her best to do that, too. See what NS can do and what other companies can do. This way you can offer the traveler the best. Once again, we are not talking about who is going to do that, but let us see how we can best serve the traveller internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u31	We all share that last objective. The chairman of the Committee of Inquiry said one thing I wondered about. She said we paid 375 million euros to the infra in Belgium. Her exclamation about this, "Hello!', is significant and I think is shared by the Chamber. However, to what extent is this amount linked to the transport offer? That does matter for the easy or less easy conduct of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u32	You can't say there's an obligation in there. It is not enforceable, we realize that very well. But let's be honest, even the things that were enforceable, because there were just contracts left over, we didn't get it done. I think it's the reality that we don't have much fiduciary in these formal matters, but that doesn't mean you can't put this back on the agenda if you do discuss a lot of things with your southern neighbours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u33	There is a painful point here: we have not even managed to do the things that are fixed in contracts. The Belgians have almost been negotiating again and again, and we seem to have been unable to resist it. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u34	The committee has noted that the agreements made at the very beginning were not sufficiently well thought-out. In the beginning, no clear agreements were actually made. Then the government did conclude contracts with the railways about what they were supposed to achieve, while it was unable to sign off on this with the Belgian partners. You're gonna let the company get away with it. We have, of course, seen Descheemaecker in the public hearing. He was sitting in a couch. We put him in a chair, but he said he was in a chair. If you don't segregate things internationally in advance and you don't make better agreements from the start, you offer each other the space to ultimately not take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u35	So you note that the order in which the Dutch State acted, namely to make vague agreements with the Belgians and to conclude hard contracts with the companies here, has been the basis for the problem. As a result, after 10 or 12 years, there was still no agreement with the partner on the international line and the train that had to run on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u36	Yes, and at the moment when it was actually thought that the train would start driving, something had to be arranged very quickly with steam and boiling water. In the end, it has become less than we had agreed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u37	Hearing all this, what, according to the committee, is the cause of the failure? Does that have to do with simple incompetence of the NS leadership? Does it have to do with bad management? Does it have to do with the fact that the government sat too much on the seat of the actual decision-makers, i.e. with displacement? I am very curious about the committee's view on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u38	We noticed that insufficient thought has been given to the interests of our southern neighbours in the creation of international transport. What is the wish of the Belgians? How is their rail network set up? In the Netherlands a fixed appointment is made to drive over something, but if you do not realise enough that there is a payment by train in Belgium, there is immediately a difference of insight. If it is the wish to have as many trains as possible, that is an expensive joke; that is what happens in a very different way. In the Netherlands it is precisely the case that if there is a lot of money to be paid, as many travellers as possible can be transported; that is the earning model here. So you have not given enough thought to the international earning model, so you know very little about the Belgian interest in achieving international transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u39	I hear in the answer that it was actually a lack of expertise, of expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u40	On how to achieve a common interest with the southern neighbours, we have realised that there was too little awareness of how it works there, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u41	Every summer I go to Belgium, where I participate in the open Belgian chess championship in Ghent, which coincides with the Ghent Festivals. That's always insanely funny. I was once in a café there and asked the Flemish barmaid what makes Belgium so fun. Without a moment of hesitation, she said: because there are so few Ollanders. Is that because Minister Jorritsma stepped out of ongoing negotiations with the Belgians at the time? I'll just call it anecdote. I mean, how do we get the Belgians back our way? The Thalys is a big profitmaker on the international route. Belgium increased the user fee. How is Mrs Van Toorenburg going to get more trains to Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u42	If I could do that on my own, I would have done it tomorrow, because I also want to go to Ghent, but not to play chess. We know we always need our international partners. We are currently President in Europe and we need each other all the time. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Met die gedachte moet je met elkaar opnieuw om tafel om te spreken over de vraag hoe we het internationale vervoer eigenlijk hebben bedacht.]] We also make international emissions agreements. If it is agreed to reduce car traffic, there is a common interest. There are many times when you can bring that common interest to the fore. And yes, there are individuals in Belgium who like it when the Dutch are not there, as individuals in the Netherlands say: the Belgians are stupid. That's a joke; we've seen how smart they were to make sure they went for their own good. Let's get rid of all these ideas about each other. We, as politicians, must be generously generous, and that is what the Belgians can very well find out again what we want to achieve with each other. When we have a good train again, the Belgian traveller also finds it pleasant to return to our beautiful centers and to our beautiful museums and all the beautiful things we have to go in the Netherlands. Then you have a common interest. I think it should be put back on the agenda in a generous way and that should never stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u43	But if the committee concludes that the NS does not have a full offer on that route at the moment, then I wonder whether we would be able to count on a full offer in the foreseeable future. I have the impression that that conclusion puts the NS and any other providers in an impossible position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u44	No, because I think the State should be next to the NS or other companies if they make a good and realistic offer. The journey we are going to London, for example, is not really something that has been agreed with Belgium. So apparently we can go somewhere across Belgian territory without being a contract. Apparently, there are possibilities. It has also been agreed internationally that you cannot limit your own tracks to your own carriers. So there have been developments that may allow you to make much more possible by doing something yourself rather than just being dependent on each other. You're gonna have to talk to each other in a generous way, tied up with other files.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u45	I would like to touch on the very justified point raised by the Committee of Inquiry, namely that the earning models differ very much between Belgium and the Netherlands, which meant that the parties actually had a different incentive in these negotiations. Looking at the future, my question is where the committee sees opportunities, despite these differences in earning models. What then are the most pressing points which, given the current lack of supply, should be addressed first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u46	That we travel tighter to Belgium than is the case with the Benelux train. Eventually it takes you so long that you don't actually have a full offer on a high-speed line. I don't think the focus should be on the money. Mrs De Boer rightly said that money should play a role, but if you just focus on how you earn it and how you start organizing it economically, you'll still leave that traveler in the cold. So speak to each other, also in the different transport ministries. The Chamber may then be able to do so in the Benelux Parliament. It's about people we want to transport. Then let's take a good look at that together. It is therefore important that you organize it more strictly in the international field. If you organize the speed, you may not have to do it with the luxury of a Thalys, it's about being flexible. The same applies to subscription holders. We all want to work cross-border, but you can see that it is very difficult to achieve transport in a good way. So: cross-border, the importance of the traveller and easy and flexible. Let that be the priorities. In this case, it is a question of being able to do as much as possible more than what is currently being offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u47	Clear. Is there also the number of places from which you can travel directly to Belgium, something the committee thinks should be looked at again? The Breda-Antwerp connection has been on the radar for a while. The conclusion that you are faster by bus is of course very dramatic to have to pull after so many investments. Is that something that the committee also says should be looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u48	Of course you may never clap out of a committee, but there are two Brabanders in this parliamentary committee of inquiry and of course they were happy with the thought that came up in all kinds of files to broaden and blow it up, in the sense that you are not only from The Hague and Rotterdam fast in Belgium but that you take Breda, for example, as well as Eindhoven and Den Bosch. What you can do more is fine, but let's at least make that part where we cross the border flexible. We already have good connections in Brabant from the different cities, but make sure that they connect more easily to the international part. So it doesn't have to be the focus right away, but every Brabander gets happy when it's easier to travel south by train. This morning it was a challenge to come north from Den Bosch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u49	I would like to make one thing clear from the Committee of Inquiry. The President said just now that the political choice of which system you release on the public transport market, namely market forces or something else, is not the mandate of this committee and that it does not concern itself with that. That's obvious. However, I hear the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry say several times in a row that the aim is to get people out of the car and into the train. I myself have a beautiful Mercedes and old Opel Astra and in both cars I travel considerably more comfortably to Antwerp than on any train. Surely it can't be the purpose of a committee of inquiry to tell the Chamber that you have to leave your car at home? That's our choice as a consumer, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u50	The Chamber instructed us to see why the intended transport was not carried out. It was intended that people would actually come from the Randstad to the south more easily and that there would be substitution of air traffic and car. So that is a political choice that was not made by the committee but by the Chamber. It was made by the Cabinet, with great support from the Chamber. So, yes, as a committee, we did not want to renounce that. Everyone can enjoy their car, whatever car someone has, up and down to Belgium. However, we think it is important that everyone should have a decent track offer. That is not a political choice, that is to offer alternatives. You can keep squealing around in your car, but we think everyone should also be able to take the train.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u53	I would like to say a few words about the tender, otherwise it will become a loose block. Mr Houwers and Mr Madlener asked. On this point, too, we read something in the article in the sense of 'there was no thought at all about the fact that there was no need to tender'. I guess half a chapter wasn't read by whoever wrote this. We analyzed whether it was necessary, because that was the game at the time. It should not be strictly speaking, but precisely because the focus was on the high amount of money to be earned, a way of finding the balance in the market and no one was favoured had to be devised. As a result, almost nothing could be done other than to tender in a certain way, but there was still room for manoeuvre. It has rightly been said that people have also been consulted who were active in an international playing field. Eventually more was possible, but precisely the focus on money made it the first stone of the overall difficult construction. I come to the chapter on procurement. The Court has rightly stated that the committee has raised a number of points on the procurement procedure, but that they are quite general. Let me say one thing about this: it is very interesting to see how our society is currently reacting to that chapter. We are approached by professors who say that they are very happy to see with their students what could go wrong in the procurement field and how it sometimes works. It is a very clear case on the basis of which they can in practice train people and learn how things are done. Members of our committee have also been invited by law firms to analyse the game properly. It is therefore very difficult to make the recommendation on the basis of this case, especially since it is also companies. We would therefore immediately say where the law needs to be changed. In this respect, the survey has been more of a challenge in finding the truth of what has happened than in thinking of changing the world in the area of procurement. We have seen that a number of things have not gone well, of which we are very clear about what it is in particular about. Mr Hoogland wondered whether the committee missed a crucial moment of choice. We did not see it as a crucial moment of choice, because eventually you choose a train. If the expectations are that that train will eventually do it, that is not a moment of choice. As far as the train itself is concerned, we have indicated that it was a crucial moment of choice for us when the transport was actually deployed when people knew that it did not meet the expectations. In fact, it was decided to use the transport, while this had not yet been taken over at all. That was a much more important choice for us. So there has not been so much a big problem in the choice for the train. However, it is striking that builders with whom we had more experience have indicated that they saw enormous complexity and therefore had a number of reservations and that there was a builder, whom we did not know well, who said "we comply, we comply, we comply." Eventually you see in the trajectory that everything that has been said "we comply" becomes a bit complicated and you almost caused for yourself that those problems occur. That has been a very important point. We should also note that the question has arisen as to whether there have actually been criminal law issues, whether there has been persecution or suspicion. On this subject, on which we, as a committee, have asked him very seriously, Descheemaecker has clearly indicated that he has not seen any element for which he would lodge a criminal complaint with anyone. In the Belgian legal system, and that is of course also the difference between the Dutch and Belgian legal systems, there is, moreover, the need to indicate if something could not have gone quite well, after which it is examined whether there is a plausible explanation for it. In this case it was situated in the fact that the trains at the end suddenly became much more expensive. The trains were gonna look different, too. They went faster all of a sudden. There would be less of them bought. All this has made the trains more expensive each, because the development costs must of course be included. For Belgium, in the Belgian system, that has been the need to report this to the court. There was no follow-up after that. As a committee, we did not find anything that would make us think: 'Hey, that really is cheating, legal or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u54	I've been waiting for the end of the block. Inventing a fifth moment, to put it that way, in which we are talking about a bad marriage between NS and AntalendBreda, the result of which is the Fyra, I was dealing with the following. At the moment that was chosen for AnsaldoBreda, there should have been reasonable doubt at NS whether AnsaldoBreda could accomplish the task. The committee has the question "why didn't transport come about?" Answered. This has been an important decision-making process. At the time Alstom had an alternative, when there were indications that the application of its own rules would exclude AnsaldoBreda, no action was taken. I understand that it is difficult to evaluate a tender process on the basis of one case and also to draw conclusions from it for the procurement law. In this case, however, you could say that this decision should not have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u55	It is perhaps interesting to note that in addition to this, I think Mr Hoogland considers it important to know that the Dutch Railways themselves have also made an analysis of the way in which it has been carried out. The company has learned for itself from this, for example, that the experience of a train builder has not actually been taken into account. NS has therefore also considered how one would do it in the future and has looked at what learning moments there are. This is definitely one of them. In the long run, it's more important that you drive a train that you don't know if he's going to do it than you say: okay, we choose to do a train builder. Let us be honest: there have probably been a lot of people in Italy and there are really fast trains there, in which Antaldo Breda also has a share. The average Dutchman loves it when he is in, for example, an ERT 500. The idea that the Italians can't build trains that go fast, we really need to talk everyone out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u56	I share that analysis. However, a complex tender has been chosen and a turnkey delivery: the train is delivered, you turn the key and it will drive. Of course, that has been a choice from which you can ask questions afterwards, especially considering the history of the NS as a fairly technical company with a knowledge of technology. If you outsource that entirely to a company in Ireland, only on the basis of financial choices, that is something that I say was quite decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u57	Absolutely. That is also rightly stated. In the first term, Mr Hoogland did not ask many specific questions about this, but I am very pleased that he is doing it now. This has indeed been a very important point. In such a tender, knowing how complicated it is, knowing that someone calls "we comply, we comply" when you really don't know if he can do it at all, it has been a very unwise decision to take your entire maintenance company out of play. That maintenance company will eventually have to work with that thing to make sure it stays on track. It has been an ill-advised decision to think that all financially driven, only acting on a contract, can ensure that those trains will do it in the Netherlands. We have also seen this quite vividly in the interview of our Italian train builder, in which he said: we are also a bit abandoned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u58	We're on the verge of tendering. I actually mean the two phases: both the choice of the Dutch government for the bid of NS....................................................................................................................................................................................... Isn't there a structural problem here? When a state-owned company procures something, buys something, the risk is always for the public interest. Freerider behavior may not be the right term, but responsibility never ends up with that state-owned company, because that state-owned company can always pass it on to the public interest. NS made a very high bid, because they knew that it was eventually a pocket pocket. The government accepted this, but also afterwards, in the risks the NS took with a turnkey tender, the NS knew that any risks would never land in the end with the company, because they always ended up in the dividend payment to the State. Isn't there a structural problem in tendering with a state-owned company? What are the committee's recommendations to deal with them better in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u59	On the one hand, you have to look in the scenarios at how you can make that knotty a little less. On the other hand, the Chamber itself is there to see when it wants to learn and not to learn. There are countries that implement this more consistently. It's a choice, but in America they go black. Of course, you have to try to avoid that finale. There are all kinds of steps that you can take on the basis of which, even if you are dependent on each other, you can still decide to intervene. It's very difficult, but it's something you have to take into account in those scenarios. What kind of dependence do we create? We realise that we are a small country with a single rail network. At what points can you do this and at what points can you not do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u60	This distinction must therefore be considered in the scenarios. How can you unlink in a good way, so that such a party can be taken? What should the government learn in doing procurement in this kind of unrealistically high offers? Of course, Article 5 has just been applied: we are overlooking the fact that this is totally unrealistic and are going for it. How do we prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u61	If there is one provider making an offer that is not at all comparable to that of other providers, there should be alarm bells ringing. We know that they have been ringing in this case. It was chosen not to act on that. I think that's a learning moment, including for the cabinet. What do you do, even as a company? You can organize it in a certain way and you can make the risk, if it occurs, the problem of the other, while you know that the problem of the other becomes your problem. We are putting these aspects very critically. It's the learning moments. We have made some recommendations for this. Even though they may be gratuitous and seem like open doors, sometimes you have to say it: be extra alert when you have one provider. Take the courage when you see that. We have looked at it with experts in procurement law. If something isn't realistic, you should be able to say you're not going to. At the same time, this is difficult, because you have to explain why it is not realistic. Then do it. In this case everyone knew and was thought: it is your responsibility; find out. That's the process you saw going on at the tender for the trains. Even then you think: it gets complicated, it's your responsibility, figure it out. And then we end up with nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u62	And that's the way it goes all the time. It's those very simple things that anyone can think of. They will go wrong, and that will lead to enormous damage for taxpayers. All taxpayers who hear this and see how much money they've wasted think: what about those responsible? Isn't there people on the board of directors and the board of directors of the NS you can expect them not to make this kind of childish mistakes in such a tender? How many responsible people have been sent home without huge regulations? How many supervisory boards have been dealt with? I don't think very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u63	In part, public accountability has been made. It's very good that that moment was taken. Then it is not up to this parliamentary committee of inquiry to judge. But when Mr Madlener says that it is quite appalling that some parties have not done what they should have done, the committee agrees with him. That's what we wrote down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u64	Yeah, and that's kind of sad. I understand that that is beyond this committee, but it is our task as a political task to remind those responsible of their responsibility and to ensure that they are paid in full. If responsible people are hired for huge salaries far beyond the beaming norm, and then they make this kind of simple, stupid mistakes, then I think those people should be addressed on their responsibility. The Ministry of Finance has remained virtually out of the loop, while it plays the shareholder role. As a shareholder, of course, you have to look at bids that are unrealistic. How is it that Mr Dijsselbloem, as responsible minister, has not been invited to a public hearing? Doesn't Mrs Van Toorenburg also think it is his role to look critically at this type of procurement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mr Madlener has asked two questions. I can respond very briefly to the first question: it is not the case that we nail one person to the brink by saying 'you are responsible for not achieving the intended transport'. That's too easy, because then you can say "you did it and get him." There is an entire chain and there are all interests and that makes it a little more complicated. However, we have questioned certain people quite critically, which makes it part of the parliamentary survey that public accountability has been made. Furthermore, it is up to the Chamber to give a follow-up. That's question one. The second question concerns finance. I would have liked to talk about this at the end of my story in connection with the role of the Chamber, but I can also take it with me now. We have, of course, paid a lot of attention to the finances. We did question other rulers who were responsible for the finances at the time. In particular, we have also interviewed policy makers. In her selection of the people she wanted to hear publicly, the committee considered whether someone was needed for the story. Do we expect something from this person that is new and that can shed another light on the matter? In all honesty, he had nothing to add to the committee. We could have chosen the ritual and let dolls come along who had nothing to add. We didn't, because we could write down what we had to write down. In addition, it is up to the Chamber to decide on their behaviour. That makes you make choices. On the one hand, you can say you should have invited him. On the other hand, I think we should have the courage to question those who need to be questioned. We saw no added value in that, even with Mr Dijsselbloem, and that is why we did not invite him. Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I must of course say "the Minister of Finance."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u66	I have heard the questions and answers so far, but I am incredibly pleased with the recommendation that four scenarios should be thoroughly explored. If that were the outcome of this parliamentary survey, we would have already made huge profits. We really need to do that seriously with our government and the Chamber. In my term, I made a comment on the examination of the First Chamber, which states that the parliamentary process is not really capable of achieving such a huge complex, as the committee has built up. This goes from the market incentives in Belgium, France and in us to the choices that have just been discussed. Then the roads actually separate between that part of the Chamber that thinks "the system can be, but all kinds of different people in it are not right" and that part of the Chamber that thinks "such a market functioning system with parliamentary control and a monopoly provider cannot". This can be seen in these four scenarios, and I would like to congratulate the committee on that. The Eerste Kamer writes something specific about market operation and rail in her research into rail. This committee didn't do that. Is it possible to give a little more body to the way that discussion went?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u67	I think it was precisely the strength of the First Chamber that she was ordered to investigate it much more widely. The First Chamber examined the track and made important recommendations for it, recommendations that could benefit the cabinet and the Chamber. Again, I know it is unsatisfactory. We only do one train and one track, but take all the tests. Economics has done research. The First Chamber has indeed done research. Take all these studies with you to ensure that you can have a proper debate on the basis of the different scenarios. Mrs Van Tongeren also said in the first term that we must do so through the regulation for large projects in order to be able to stay on top of it. You then work on your information in a structured way. If the Chamber does not have that expertise, try to attract it. I do the estimation myself, and the President too knows better than anyone that we have not even exploited the research budget. Then we say: we don't really know what's going on. We have fantastic researchers, but there is underexhaustment. Then use those people! That is the way in which the Chamber in the future can properly monitor these big projects, if they are well placed in the climbers. But you'll have to start working on it in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u68	So, if I can sum it up like that, is the committee's conclusion that all this could have been done, provided a whole series of people hadn't made stupid mistakes? Then we would have had a just, affordable, traveler-friendly Fyra with satisfied Belgians and satisfied Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u69	I love asking like-dan questions, but never answer them. So I can't say. I can't say that it would have worked, because then we might still have had the situation that that train didn't work in the end. Then we just wouldn't have researched what the interests were.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u70	Let's get back to that most important conclusion, the twin-guard problem. The finances were always leading. There is a strange paradox in this: the finances were leading, while we are actually dealing with a huge financial noose! Nevertheless, the finances were apparently leading. Anyway, that aside. I just heard the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry say that we did not think it necessary to invite Dijsselbloem. I don't understand. The finances have played a role, but then it is decided not to hear the most important person in this, the shareholder of the NS. I have also mentioned the problem of double-hatting in my contribution. Could you also reverse it by saying that things would have turned out very differently if there hadn't been double caps, if there had been another shareholder?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u71	At all the crucial moments in the dossier you can say: if another choice had been made, there would have been another path that might have led to a completely different end result. That's probably true here, too. I would like to say one more thing about Dijsselbloem. We have indicated that we wanted to look very critically at what actually happened. It is not for nothing that we have had closed pre-consultations. We have received a great deal of information in that regard. We have had a detailed interview with the Director of Financing & Participations. That's the one we've been asking about what happened. Then, at the end, it was complicated in the game between the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Transport. We totally unraveled that. We have also spoken to the person responsible for this. If as a committee you know it doesn't add anything to hear someone, do you have to do it for the form? We didn't make that choice. You may charge us with that, but we have tried to do it purely. It's about finding the truth and public accountability. This Minister is Minister. If you speak to him, you can call this in. For us, it had no added value to hear him. In that you must act purely, we find. Not only for the form, for the fun public game, you have to give the dolls the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u72	Finally, Mrs De Boer. The interruptions must be really short!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u73	I'll also try to answer shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u74	Someone has indeed been heard at official level, but I think this is about political responsibility in this matter. Important conclusions are drawn on this politically responsible person. Once again, I do not understand it, but this has been a decision of the committee that we cannot reverse now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u75	However, it is up to us as Chamber or that person to be held public. Nothing stands in our way to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u76	Your fourth interruption, Mrs Van Veldhoven. The fifth even, I hear! I want to keep it moving a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u77	Sure! Still, about Minister Dijsselbloem. A firm conclusion is drawn about him, namely that he did not inform the Chamber in full. I am therefore still surprised that Mr Dijsselbloem's reaction has not been sought. That too could have been a reason to invite him. My question is about alternative supply. The committee concludes that this is not enough. Minister Dijsselbloem has also been explicitly involved in the choice of the final alternative offer. How does the committee assess the influence of finance, and therefore again the role of money, in the choice of alternative supply?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u78	We noticed that because at some point the decision was made to take the train out of service. An intervention from Finance has made that decision an ex post decision. We've analyzed that. Once again, we have indicated where the Minister of Finance should have informed the Chamber more generously, especially because he himself had promised to do so. Then you get to the facts. We have been able to write them down and present them to you. If you think that should have consequences, it is up to the Chamber, not us as committee. We have been very keen in that. On the contrary, we would very much like the Chamber to look at the other recommendations to change it in the future. In this sense, we are not concerned with judgment, but with the facts so that the Chamber can form a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u79	Some others were given the opportunity to reflect on those facts themselves. I only note that this is not the case with the Minister of Finance. He didn't have that opportunity. I also asked a substantive question, namely how the committee appreciates the involvement of the Ministry of Finance in the alternative offer. Has the money been chosen too quickly or has the balance with the other interests played a sufficient role?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u80	In any case, we have seen that the NS did not dare to deduct their hands from the Fyra until they were sure that the concession could be retained because they had sufficient signals for that. We wrote that down pretty critically. Finance also plays a role in this. Next, the withdrawal and alternative transport also looked more at the money than at the traveler. That has also alienated us. That is precisely why we say: do not stop, but try to make sure that it is possible. Then don't just look at the money again. This also came back in the interruption that Mrs Van Veldhoven just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u81	I should like to comment on whether or not to speak with Mr Dijsselbloem. Somebody's come to firm conclusions. In the context of hearing and hearing again it is always nice to speak with him himself. I would like to hear another reaction to that. I asked for that, too. Isn't it strange to find out in advance that hearing someone adds nothing without having spoken to him? Just by talking to someone, you can see whether or not it adds anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u82	That's a fair point. My reaction to that is next. A: It's not about hearing and hearing again, it's about finding the truth. B: We have spoken to Mr Dijsselbloem and on this basis the committee has concluded that he had nothing to add. We talked to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u83	I continue to find it unsatisfactory. I cannot make any other conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u84	I would also like to comment briefly on the fact that Mr Dijsselbloem is not being heard in public. The committee states that he had nothing to add. Could it be that the consideration of not hearing Mr Dijsselbloem in public was also motivated by the fact that the same minister was busy in Europe at the time and was re-elected in a European position? Is it true that in that context a painful interrogation would not come in handy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u85	No. In this sense, we consider ourselves to be the most important. We are sometimes accused of working on our own. At least we didn't stand in the way of that for a second; if we had thought he had to appear, he would have arranged it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u86	I understand that this consideration has never been discussed in committee in relation to whether Mr Dijsselbloem should be heard in public or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u87	No, because we answered him and we didn't care about anything. We have spoken to him in private, I mean, let me keep it strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u88	Let me come back to a previous point. I heard the chairman say that the committee had signals that the NS were sure in advance that they would not lose the concession anyway. I don't read that very hard in the report unless I've read about it. Then I apologize for that. Can the President explain what signals the Committee of Inquiry has had?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u89	We wrote that down. It has also been very clear in the correspondence and in the interviews of the NS. They keep saying, of course, "we didn't know" and there was no signature under the promise that the concession never will be removed. Only when there was enough comfort, and we did get that confirmation, did they have the courage to say: now we stop with the Fyra. Financial reasoning has then been added. That train could still drive.I'll take that point right now... but eventually a different choice has been made than the refurbishing of the trains. Countless reports show that the trains could have been refurbished. However, there were other considerations. It was about confidence, about the financial aspect, which made it almost more favourable not to drive it or to drive it, and about the aspect that the concession would not be withdrawn directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u90	Mrs Van Toorenburg, please continue with your speech. I would point out that there will be a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u91	I'm going to do a few things because I think it's important. We just talked about the officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u92	I still see Mr Houwers running to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u93	I had to let it work on me for a while. Do I hear the committee chairman say that it was wiser or cheaper not to let the train run than to let it run? I would find that a very curious financial reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u94	Exactly. That is why we have worked it out in our report. At some point it looked at the duration, what had to be done and the chance that they could give it back. We have explained that it seemed more financially advantageous not to use the train in the end and to come up with an alternative than to continue with it. We thought that was rather special and therefore wrote it down. For Mr Van Vliet: it's all around page 369.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u95	Is that an additional argument or the main argument as far as you are concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u96	As far as I'm concerned, I can't say anything about it. The NS has made a trade-off: do we still have confidence in the builder, do we still have confidence in the train, what will it cost to patch it up, what is the total financial picture and what is the great danger? The great danger was the concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u97	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u98	A very important aspect that we have described in our report concerns the inspection and authorisation, the situation with the inspection authority and the ILT. In particular, we have been disturbed by this minimalist view of the task, that minimalist role. We have written about this in rather sharp terms. That's especially in attitude and behavior. There could be a lot more, but it has been chosen not to do so and not to act on signals that have been very important. We are particularly surprised that this train was treated like all the others, while we have been working on a very heavy system of security. We have developed a safety system that costs a power, a fast train has to run over it and we build everything on it, but then we treat the train as if it had no particular safety aspects. We found that very strange. Of course, you can never say: the whole house doesn't add up, because it went wrong somewhere. However, we have found it rather disconcerting that this one time that it really does go wrong, that happens despite the system that we have built to prevent those mistakes. In the end, we looked at looming errors. It is far too much an inspection of processes on paper. In this way certification does not achieve the objective. A quality management system can be right on paper. But when people watch in the factory and find that there is no maintenance at all, a train eventually still receives a certificate and an admission. A number of things really need to change in attitude and behavior. The Chamber has asked us several questions about this. It starts with a minister who has to bring about this change in attitude and behaviour by addressing the ILT. When it has gone wrong in such complex files, the starting point can no longer be "trust unless." Then you need to give the risk-driven supervision a little more body. We have had to puzzle for a very long time what risk-driven supervision is all about. It seemed to be about something quite different than about risks that we all saw emerging. Of course, that was pretty special. Let me say one more thing about it. We have said a great deal about it in the report and the interviews speak for themselves. We are a little critical of the battle that is being waged towards Europe. We are not saying that it does not go well if it is organized far. We say, however, that we are concerned that if the Netherlands no longer plays any role in this, you can hardly steer change in that attitude and behaviour. More importantly, we have analysed how it is organised in Europe. If there is a risky route, for example a train or a boat, one does not consider how to mitigate the risks. No, we are looking at how to prevent a country from setting up its control in such a way that it is contrary to the principles of a level playing field and market forces for suppliers, which should not be blocked. It is therefore organized from the point of view: as long as it does not distort market principles. It is therefore not organised from the point of view of security. The committee has looked the monster in the mouth; I say that more often, and that is something that must be laughed at immediately. But as long as it's not organized that way, I just don't want it to go away. Then the room must act on that. Make sure that safety becomes real safety. Don't walk like easy sheep after each other. Take care of an inspection body that writes all kinds of fire letters and shows what went wrong and arranges an inspection that actually inspects. So make sure that you can get through it at European level. We have said a great deal about this. For the sake of time I may not have to continue this whole point, which is a pity. We must try to implement in particular the real recommendations that make it safer for the traveller. The committee strongly appeals to the spokesmen in this area: do not be content with the route that is now underway; stand up, solve it and address the Minister and the Secretary of State, so that things change. I have a few short points before I get to the aspect of the Chamber. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke in detail about the role of the KLM. There was a thought at the time: we can do it alone, we don't need the KLM. But the KLM was brought on board because of the substitution of car and air traffic and because of the knowledge of the KLM about yield management, which is actually a nice word for you, if you want to stimulate something in numbers, doing something with the price. That's very much market forces; I'm just looking at my colleague from the SP. Mr Houwers has asked what happens to the trains now. We also asked Ansaldo Breda about this. When we questioned the company publicly, the trains were still in the warehouse. We haven't received any sounds that they're not in there anymore, but who am I to say that? I don't know where the trains are now. At least we haven't seen them drive yet. I don't know if they've been sold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you for answering my questions about the KLM. It is now clear to me what expertise the KLM has been asked for. I asked another question. When it became more of a drama story, it was all about the NS, while it was NS and KLM all the time. I've hardly heard them talk about why things went so wrong. The KLM is also a fairly large company, a large party that needs expertise on a whole set of these things. She sometimes orders a plane here and there. How did the committee look at that? Has the KLM really brought in its expertise in enabling market forces, ordering good things at a reasonable price? How'd that go, anyway? In the media, what I've seen of it, she's completely out of the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u100	She's not with us. We've made some progress. We've talked to people. We've got an image of the KLM. We have found that she has been brought in for a piece of expertise, especially given that the chance would increase that the offer would eventually be made, because there were more parties involved. The KLM has not only remained in the media very much in the background, but also financially. Her financial damage was up to 7 million. That was all premeditated. That is also the only thing the KLM has suffered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u101	So even with Dutch pride, one of the big companies in the Netherlands, in such a procurement process has it not been possible to order a decent product for an acceptable price?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u102	No, at that stage the KLM was still involved, but only because of its general expertise in the field of transport flows and economic views, and not so much in the field of the procurement of a train. Mr Van Vliet, who was once involved in taxation and will therefore always keep an eye on the money, asked us what happened. Allow me to read it, because I am always less enthusiastic about it. We have been confirmed in the interviews that the losses of HSA's NS subsidiary are about EUR 790 million over the entire duration. This is more or less in a U-turn or in a direct line with the taxpayer. 1.85 billion will be received for the use fee, as estimated by the General Court. There have been several mutations. We have tried to explain this in our report. Under the negotiating agreement, 1 billion has been charged, which is also borne by the taxpayer. Mr Van Vliet did something I also did, namely to look at the costs of the HSL-South itself, even though these are not costs for the Fyra but for infrastructure. Before that was initially somewhat less planned than was previously spent. For the infrastructure and what goes with it, the Infraspeed consortium has received money. Those amounts together are 11 billion. That's the infrastructure. We can't put them together again. I add up a little, but then we really add up too much. Our message is purely: much has been spent on the train and on the infrastructure. Then make sure you organize a good offer for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr Van Vliet, do you not need a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u104	Haha. You're so kind, Madam President. Is it perhaps possible to obtain a short state of the costs for the second term on one A4?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u105	I'm not sure that's gonna work for the second term. We have people in committee who have made themselves very meritorious in the parliamentary survey financial system before, so we can. It's all in the report...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mr Van Vliet would like to explain one more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u107	Mrs Van Veldhoven had an excellent suggestion, which I should have thought of myself. I would prefer to have an extensive statement of costs, but that can also be done before the debate with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u108	Of course. We can ensure that Mr Van Vliet is served there. That's very relevant, because it's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u110	We arrive at the last block: the provision of information to the Chamber. That's what the committee has cracked hard notes on. I started with the interests that play. Also, the Chamber has often focused on the position of the NS, more than on that of the traveller. Let us just say that to ourselves. We, too, have looked at the costs at some point as a Chamber, after which we have gone along with the reasonings of the cabinet. I think that at that point the Chamber can better fulfil its controlling task by really thinking about what is intended. Of course money can play a role, but if you lose sight of it, you can end up losing a lot more money. Let's at least put that as a central notion. The Chamber should assess the cabinet more critically when it comes to the value for the traveller and responsible use of public funds. On that point, the Chamber really is not lacking in grasping. She can do that. Mr Smaling gave an example of a 2009 motion by Mr Roemer on the maintenance of the Benelux train. The Chamber passed that motion, then it wasn't implemented, and we're not doing anything, we're just letting it happen. When Minister Camiel Eurlings states that the HSA is in a difficult position, the Chamber can of course also ask questions. Is there a financial problem that becomes so great that the risk of bankruptcy is present? Asking through, getting through, being tricky. You can do it, Mr. Chairman, go in front of the entire Chamber. Important. We may not be directly involved in negotiations, but we will not let a cabinet member get away with it if a negotiating agreement is reached. It's swallowing or choking. Then go ahead and make sure we know exactly what's underneath. The BOR can think about that with us. We really need to look at ourselves: we should not let that happen to us. You can always agree in advance how we wish to be informed, then ensuring that you are also informed. We have also made recommendations on the lessons that we can draw from the various committees of inquiry. Put it next to each other. Mr Elias led a wonderful research on ICT, from which certain points were highlighted. Put those next to each other, too. We did. Other points should be taken into account in the evaluation of the Parliamentary Survey Act. We have tried to contribute to this. Those are all kinds of ways to make sure you're even better at it as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u111	I understand that this is the last part of Mrs Van Toorenburg's speech. I suggest she finish her story. Then you will have an opportunity to interrupt, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u112	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u113	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u114	We have been asked what importance we attach to the mistakes made by the various govern ments who are still in office. We have included detailed descriptions of their provision of information to the Chamber. It has undoubtedly been noted that we have tried to give a little more direction and explanation than just the words "incorrect" and "incomplete." Sometimes you may not have said something out of some kind of sloppyness. That is also regrettable, but the Chamber can make an assessment of how angry it is when someone says something which is not strictly incorrect but which has caused the Chamber to be wrong. We have used that kind of terminology. I'm asking the Chamber to see how she feels about that. I think it is important that we do this right. They asked if the room should bite. Would the traveler have had fun if the room had bitten? In any case, by not biting the traveler we have not served as a chamber, let us be. You can't say, if we'd bite, it would all have gone well. We didn't bite and it didn't go well. We have been able to see that. Certainly in the case of alternative transport, we have talked about this extensively, and we have not bitten as a Chamber, but perhaps we can do so. Then let my final word be that biting really doesn't always have to lead to an arterial bleeding; come on! We can make sure that we put the cabinet in a position where it also goes through the door with nodding knees, and not only when it is called to account for something that has gone wrong, but also when we think that it should be different during a process. Let us be firm in that. I think we can do that. Let our report motivate you as a Chamber to do so as best you can under your leadership, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u115	Thank you. I'm giving you an opportunity for brief interruptions. I didn't just allow Mrs. Van Veldhoven to interrupt. Now I am giving her the opportunity, but very briefly. After all, the Chamber also has a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u116	I am going to tell you that in the second term I will try not to ask any new questions to the committee. The role of the Chamber is an important part of the report. The room can bark and bite. She can only bite through by a majority. The Chamber consists of coalition and opposition. Does the committee still draw lessons from dualism in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u117	An important lesson is that you shouldn't let it get so far that you can only go through the Chamber fighting in the end. Organize it better. Then you get to the scenarios; that's where it starts. Force information You can keep following that very annoyingly if you see that it is not going well with the information provided to the Chamber. Expose that. Don't do too much in private conversations, 'cause that's not gonna do you any good. Some Members of Parliament who have been questioned have also indicated this. We know that there are Members of Parliament who do not even look at anything confidential for inspection. So force more and more in there. Especially in such a long journey, as a coalition, you don't necessarily benefit from keeping things decided. After all, tomorrow may be different and you will suffer from it yourself. If you see that things have not gone well, try to follow the case even more critically; the beginning and the intermediate steps. Make arrangements with the cabinet about the procedure. Then you can stick to each other. Better use your own research resources to ensure that you can raise certain points. I think there's more to it. That is an important message from us. It is also in the coalition's interest to make things work. Otherwise, she will suffer at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u118	In the context of barking and biting, I specifically asked about the alternative which the committee recommends to us. I hear the chairman say: bite it; not so that it becomes an arterial bleed, but bite it. My question concerns the alternative. Should the Chamber instruct the Cabinet not to accept this alternative? Should she say: let other market players watch before the concession ends? Or does the committee say that only at the next concession do you have to bite hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u119	No, we say don't settle for what's now. In doing so, we do not say that it must be delivered by someone other than the one who supplies it now. I can only be hopeful because I haven't heard any other sound from the cabinet so far. It also feels that it is not good enough now. I don't even think biting is necessary. I think we're gonna come a long way with just a little shake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u120	The final point is that we can count on ourselves as a Chamber and we must also think about it. I may have missed one answer, but I would like to go back to the main conclusion: the finances were leading instead of the interests of the traveller. Can the committee make a recommendation to the Chamber on this matter? I do not see in the report what recommendation can be drawn from that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u121	It's as simple as it says: don't let the financial interests be guiding. Do not accept an unrealistic offer in a tender; that is also a contract with Finance. So be much more critical of that. Certainly, the changes to the procurement law can also be made with much stricter choices: choose not only on price but also on quality. So be critical of this in the legislation on procurement law. If you're just staring blind at finances, you're losing track of the traveler. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u122	That has everything to do with the problem of double hats. Should that be separated much more? Is that an important cause of the fact that we have allowed the finances to be leading, and was that perhaps different with another shareholder? Maybe, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u123	When the shareholdership and transport were still together, we saw total passivity. That didn't work either. The key to these roles is that they are properly filled out. Then it's actually no longer interesting where they lie, but what consequences you want to draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u124	Perhaps it is easy to talk from a political group that has not yet borne any government responsibility, but I see, in particular, that in large infrastructure projects, including the MIRT, when it comes to the Blankenburg tunnel, perhaps a small project compared to the hsl or the Betuwe route, that coalition groups are inclined to follow the ruler much tighter than in open or less costly issues. Has the committee been able to analyse whether there really is a line in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u125	We have seen that, but on certain points the government groups have also been very critical. However, they were particularly critical in the debates. In the end, when it was really about motions, they came up with a lame broth of what they had said before. So we'll see it happen. Therefore, let this investigation be a case to which it can be taken back. Anyone can learn from this, including the SP when it is in a coalition. The lesson is that it does not have to be this way and that as a Chamber we keep ourselves and the cabinet sharp every time we are sent in the reeds with a brat. We have often seen that the Chamber did ask the relevant questions. So you don't always have to bite, but you do ask the questions. But then there was an answer that everyone knew wasn't the right answer. Unfortunately, no one, neither coalition nor opposition, then went crazy. It's okay, and it didn't happen. They'll settle for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u126	I find this worrying, because outside and among people who are following this debate, the impression is given that in such cases, where so much is at stake, the government only wants to see at least 76 fingers going up or down. As a result, Parliament is actually becoming a cripple with regard to the biting you are talking about. If such a motion is adopted but is not carried out, only a motion of censure remains. He wouldn't have made it. So I see this as the bankruptcy of parliament as a biting dog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u127	No, I don't. The minister who is now dealing with transport has at some point done something that is not directly in the political line of her own group, namely really pressing NS to the chest and actually giving everything NS has always wanted. So you can at some point in a certain responsibility make a choice that may not fit the political colour. This is how the game has been played, but more importantly, we have brought forward that there have been tough talk but that no action has been taken in the end. If there were signs that it was not going well, they would not go through and they would settle for confidential reports and reports. So they followed it reasonably, but when it came to it, they cut off. Look at that as a room. All Members of the European Parliament, as parliamentary committees of inquiry, are also ordinary Members of Parliament who can take advantage of this in their actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u128	I myself was a member of the Committee on Transport with Mr Roemer at the time. I remember very well that we have had huge debates in which I remember the PVV and SP in particular were very much surprised at the enormous bid of NS. That amount was totally unfeasible. In fact, everyone knew that, but the cabinet eventually got away with it because the government parties said: we let it happen. Then, of course, as an opposition, you end up empty-handed. Then you can glands all you want, but of course it is not the job of the opposition to keep glands. The job is to stop something or not, but that is not possible in the current system. Can you elaborate on this lack of dualism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u129	In this case too, we have seen that at a certain point in time the Chamber has just left it at that. Sometimes you see that, if you go on long enough that sometimes takes a lot of time and attention, you do something, because if something isn't right, it doesn't eventually win. We've seen that now. Let that be an example. We cannot break the coalition and the opposition, but we have seen that it is too simple to say that it is only that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u130	I still have the point of the glands. We're often in an opposition role. Although the government has every appearance against it, the Chamber continues to support something. What else do you have to do? A motion has been passed and is not being carried out. So I agree with the SP that as an opposition you are empty-handed. How can it be that government parties, knowing that a wrong decision is being made, allow something to happen for opportunistic reasons? What are you gonna do with glands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u131	"Elders" seems like a cautious word, but it's serious. If every time we get facts and research data that we generate ourselves, we show you that things aren't going well, you've got something on the table. Eventually, you'll see that drop will drain the stone. We have to keep doing that. We have to take responsibility for that. If we just let it go, we have a problem. We can build it up and keep following it very critically. We have also devoted a separate chapter to it and we have taken it out, precisely in order to keep the Chamber a mirror. See when you can act. Too often people have thought in the end: never mind; on to the order of the day. That is also at the bottom of a motion, and it happened too often literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u132	Finally, in this first term, I would like to make a comment about the ILT, the Inspection Environment and Transport. The Committee of Inquiry uses the words 'unacceptable minimalist'. That's a long way to go. I think that the Committee of Inquiry is 100% right. Then the question is not just how to deal with supervision of trains and the hsl. The question should therefore be: what should be the position of the ILT? Supervision was also central to the housing corporation survey. Eventually the case was cycled under the ILT, while everyone knew that there is just a ticking culture there. It's been proven here. Could the Committee of Inquiry comment explicitly on what we need to do to wake up the ILT?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u133	Don't assume trust unless. I think the cabinet should engage with the ILT to discuss the significance of risk-driven supervision. But let us not think that it is only in the forms, because in Belgium the train is also allowed and there it is organized differently. Except they did a few smart things there. They did it temporarily, which might make it easier to intervene. There is also international supervision on an international train. That is precisely why we are making these recommendations, which I have now gone through a little short for the sake of time. The inspection is indeed becoming a tick-off culture, which examines whether the process is correct. That's why we're also saying, "take a sample and make sure something's okay." So go really look and skin not just on paper a judgment. You could have done that a long time ago, but it didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u134	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u135	So can I take this as a powerful signal that the cabinet should indeed look more closely at the ILT and start talking about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u136	The Chamber with the Cabinet. As a committee, we are really pleased that this may be the final word in the first term. Because it's in the ILT. It is not only about the easy transport of passengers but also about the safe travel of passengers. That is indeed something that Chamber and Cabinet must now seriously resolve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u137	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. We have come to the end of the first term on the part of the committee. There is a need for a short suspension. Then we proceed with the second term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u138	We shall proceed to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u139	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the committee for all the answers it has given to the questions put by the Chamber. We have talked extensively about the central conclusion that the traveller is in the cold and all the reasons for it. The ambitions were not supported by a realistic earning model. The recommendation is therefore to make a really good plan next time. There was no agreement with the Belgians, but already a contract with the parties. The recommendation is actually to do this in any case in reverse. The contract with the NS did not consider the impossibility of the high bid. The NS also dared to take risks, because in the end the risk was always passed on to the taxpayer. I think this is a structural looming error that we need to think about. The planning and budget were also unrealistic. Well, there's gotta be a different way. The quality inspection was without teeth. In addition, there is a structural wrong incentive that the producer ultimately determines who approves his product, rather than the customer. The risk-driven supervision must be filled in differently. There must be more customization, as I heard in the committee's replies. The committee has rightly highlighted the current European playing field, I think, very strongly. Yesterday we had a meeting with the Commissioner for Transport, Mrs Bulc. We have also brought this to her attention. I have promised her that I will forward to her the conclusions of this Fyra survey on this issue so that she can take note of them and draw its own conclusions. Speaking of conclusions, it is appropriate for us to thank the committee very much for its answers. We are going to draw the political conclusions in the debate with the government. In any case, the call to get more out of it, even during this period, has been very clear to me and will be the most important part of the debate with the government for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u140	Mr. Chairman. The answer also shows how thorough and thorough the committee has been. There is an incredible amount of detail and information on the table, of which only a few things have been reviewed today. In an interruption I have just said that two very important things have come out for my party. Firstly, there is the recommendation that four scenarios should be really well grounded and, in the longer term, what they mean. Secondly, there is the underlying recommendation that, once you have chosen a scenario, this is long-term. So we also need to look at our own role. During the period we are talking about, the Chamber has always set a different course. No wonder a decision, whatever you decide, isn't gonna work. Although we have left the creative society behind us, the report, under this discussion, hides the belief that market forces can provide the solution, as long as you deal with it in a good way. That idea is still clearly underneath it. You can also hear it in the questions of the colleagues. Another important point, which I have been working on for a long time from a different angle, is that we need to look closely at how an inspection works. At Moerdijk we also went after it together and we thought that it should not be so with those inspection holidays. You can see that the same thing has happened here, namely that it was only checked on paper. The committee has done a very good job in this respect. This is homework for us, as the House of Representatives, to ensure that we appeal to our government to carry out inspections properly. The other points are for debate with the government. I would like to thank the entire committee, under the distinguished chairmanship of our colleague Mr Van Toorenburg, and the support staff for this fantastic piece of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u141	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the committee. She has answered the questions exhaustively and adequately. One of the questions that then lives is what the committee is going to do next. I understand that the committee is keen to take over the spokespersonship of the spokesmen. I am willing to give up my spokesmanship. In my case, that is also possible, especially in view of the fact that we have received a lot of homework from the committee. So that's a hell of a job the committee gives to itself in this case. We will have to start with a follow-up study on the structure, on the transport supply, on the procurement and on the inspection. These are matters that we can do now and which, I think, can be taken up widely in the Chamber but at least as far as the PvdA is concerned. We will have to tackle the question of how coherent steps can be taken in the structure. Finally, I would like to thank the committee once again for its work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u142	As for your comment on giving up spokespersonship, I will pass on the short list of this part of the sitting to the secretary of the PvdA Group. I now give the floor to Mr Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u143	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the members of the Committee of Inquiry. I am sure the President will be grateful. I've had the honor of covering that part myself, so I know how many dishes you have to keep in the air. It's all worked out well for you, my compliments. Thank you very much to the staff, too. I know that most of the writing comes from your hands. So sincere compliments for that, too. I'll be brief. Of course, we are going to do business in the debate with the government. I would, however, urge the government to react quickly so that everything in this report does not get bogged down. It also needs to be done now and we need to move forward. Let us therefore dare to make the political choices that we have talked about here in the debate with the government. The procedural conclusions in the report on survey legislation are also very important to me. I participate in the Temporary Committee for Evaluation WPE, chaired by Mr Van Raak. Therefore, I will not fail to take on board all the comments made by this committee of inquiry as a member of that temporary committee, so that we can further strengthen and improve the instrument of the survey. I started with it and I end with it: the instrument of the parliamentary survey is very, very special and it gives our Chamber far-reaching powers. I actually fell in love with that instrument myself. So I'm also jealous of this committee because she's here now. This also indicates the commitment I have to this debate. The tool of the survey should not be used lightly because it is a very far-reaching instrument. Once you apply it, the entire Chamber opted for the temporary committee that led to this survey at the time. I am pleased that this committee has done so. About the recommendations, we're gonna fight the government hard. Thank you all very much!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u144	Mr. Chairman. I begin by thanking the colleagues and their staff who have done this difficult job. It's difficult, too, because it's a very complicated system. In our view, it is an example of a system error on the Dutch track. It must be noted that political insights and ideologies are so far apart that we are not really coming out of this Chamber. In our view, that is why this committee has not been able to answer that real question either. I very much appreciate the way in which, despite the political differences, the committee has been able to deliver this report. It's a piece of truth. Of course, it's sad that it was necessary. It's really a soap opera; you could make a movie about how things could have gone so wrong. I am almost ashamed of the Dutch taxpayer that this happened. Because it's intriguing and intriguing. I hope that politics can rise above ideologies and eventually become a good product for the traveller, which will not cost too much tax money. I call on ourselves to do so as a political one. Anyway, my appreciation is great. We are not participating in the joint motion that will be tabled shortly, because we cannot fully share the main conclusion. We had expected a little more and hoped that this committee could rise above ideologies. I have already expressed my appreciation twice; I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u145	Mr. Chairman. Once again, I also said it in the first term: my great respect for the work that has been done, both for the first row and for the second row in box K. I have also shown that it is very appealing to me that we have this instrument in the Chamber. There has been an extraordinary amount on the table on an issue which, as Mr Madlener said, is sad and has cost the taxpayer a great deal of money, which we can only hope will not happen again thanks to this report. But, yeah, you never know. We're pretty hard learners from time to time. Maybe man overestimates himself from time to time. We get to the moon and Mars, but a bit decent building a railway line seems to be very difficult. In any case, I am grateful to the committee for the report. We can get on with it. I think we can handle the debate with the Secretary of State in a very substantive and thorough manner. Hopefully that also means a change of course that goes a bit in the direction of the SP. I know that the committee is not about it, but it would be nice if we could just let trains run again, serving the common good, and that people could leave the car.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u146	Mr. Chairman. I would like to add my thanks to the first term for the way in which the questions have been answered. Sometimes you would have liked the answer to be a little more political and sharper, but I think it is very good how the chairman of the committee and thus the whole committee have stayed out of the political debate. That must be done with the cabinet. What consequences do we draw from the findings in this report? Those findings are clear and clear in the report. They're unheard of. I must say that the answer to the questions certainly does not give any reason to correct that picture. It was a disenchanting process, in which many factors played a role, except for the good, at least not in the right place. We are therefore looking forward to the discussion with the Cabinet on this matter and to a fundamental reflection on how such a public provision should be set up in such a way as to ensure the best possible interest of, in this case, the traveller. That is not the case so far. We all have homework and we are happy to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u147	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the committee and its support for the comprehensive response. The CDA is pleased that the committee has the institution that the traveller should be at the centre. That was also the reason why my predecessor Sander de Rouwe and Stientje van Veldhoven took the initiative for this committee. Just a brief word on the content. We have asked about the difficult or not always easy relationship between the State and the Dutch Railways and how we can solve this. How can this relationship get better? We have not really heard very much about this from the committee, and we need it very much towards the political debate that is yet to come, in which real political conclusions can be drawn from the matter. We have also discussed the fact that we feel a little bit pricked by the Belgians. We ask the committee whether it agrees with the CDA that this is Chefsache, that this is something that should also involve Prime Minister Rutte in contact with the Belgians. This is going to be on a higher level. Please note: provided that the traveller is in one state. The House of Representatives barks, but doesn't bite. The CDA Group has the impression that government parties sometimes operate differently from the opposition in the discussion in the Fyra debate. Of course you cannot always say that as a committee, but I think she has made it very clear. That's more common. I think that the committee, with the proper wording it has chosen, has put its finger on that sore spot. If I ask myself how we can bite, that is in the forthcoming debate with the government on this dossier. Then let's talk about it. A number of motions that have been tabled in the past must then simply be re-launched. We are still fighting with the alternative. I am thinking of the De Rouwe motion from November 2013, which explicitly asked for several market players to take part in the debate on the hsl. That motion was rejected at that time. I think we should just retable that motion. We need to change the year and maybe change a few words, but the intention may be the same. Then the motion gets another chance. In November 2014, a year later, I filed a motion for the first time, which was about letting external people look at the role of the ILT when things go wrong when safety on the track. That motion was also rejected at the time. Such a motion could now have a rematch to show that we want to bite through. I would like to thank the committee once again. I think she has really drawn many clear conclusions and made clear recommendations. In that sense, I believe that the committee has certainly bitten. Without going in the wild, she has given the Dutch Railways, the Dutch State, the Belgian State and also the Dutch House of Representatives a big hit. She did so in beautiful, neat terms, but very clear and also without looking at the background of people in politics. I recall, Mr President, that journalist Breedveld of the NIS asked the chairman of the committee who had misinformed the press conference. Without glances or blush, but without giving more or less attention to the rulers of certain parties, there was simply a list that said: that ruler and that ruler at that and that moment. Then I thought, "How many rulers can you give such a hard tap in one minute?" This committee did that at the time. You'll have a lot of nerve. Then you know you're not gonna say that without doing something. So thank you very much, also to the staff. I hope you will allow me, Mr President, to say that we, as CDA, were also very proud that Madeleine was allowed to say so. President. - I call the Group of the European People's We'll find that very nice. Finally, we have often heard the saying that the traveller must stand at one, two and three. The CDA thinks this sounds wonderful, but that the practice often turned out to be different. We say, at least put him on one. That's enough, if we just do it right. This will enable us to get to work in the forthcoming debate with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u148	Thank you. Calling only the first name we only do today; then not anymore. We do that on an exceptional basis. Finally, Mrs De Boer from the VVD Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u149	Mr. Chairman. I think we are having an important debate today. It is important that we have noted that we all want to work out different scenarios to see how we are shaping the structure of the track for the future, rather than making all kinds of changes again with sticky work. We're gonna take the time for that, too. In the coming year, we'll see what scenarios we have to submit to the Chamber next year. How do we get a better offer? That is an important recommendation from the committee, because how are we going to get a better offer? Of course, we do this by looking at how several market players could make an offer for the traveller. That's important. When can we do that? When can we see if we can create a better offer for the traveller? You could immediately look at how to expand the existing bid, but you have to tell Mr Van Helvert about it with the Belgians. You can't let a train run here if the Belgians don't allow that train to Belgium. It is an important observation that the Benelux train is now 15 minutes longer than it has been in the past. This is because the Belgians have negotiated well and made sure that the train went through Zaventem airport, to operate Zaventem airport in that way. We must see how we can sit around the table with the Belgians again in order to make a better offer. In addition, we must appreciate the performance of the NS in 2018. Maybe that's a moment to see how we can break open the concession. By 2024, there must be a new concession at all. The Dutch government has a double cap. This issue has now remained a little low, but we will certainly take it with us in the political debate with the cabinet. The Dutch government has two hats on, but should also serve two interests. It has been said a few times: the traveller must be on one. That is very important, but we still have an interested party, namely the Dutch taxpayer. This too will be discussed again in the political debate with the cabinet. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Fyra Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry was set up at the request of the House of Representatives;]] [[Whereas the parliamentary committee of inquiry has carried out thorough investigations and incorporated the findings into a very clear report;]] [[expresses great appreciation and thanks for all the work done by the parliamentary committee of inquiry, including official support;]] [[endorses the Commission's analysis and main conclusion;]] [[Notes that the report provides a good basis for an exchange of views with the Government;]] [[calls on the Government to give an appreciation of the conclusions and recommendations made by the parliamentary committee of inquiry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members De Boer, Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren, Hoogland, Van Vliet, Smaling, Bisschop, Van Helvert, Houwers and Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33678-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u150	Mr. Chairman. Normally we can only reply when we have the motion on paper, but we do not need to do so now, even if I would like to read it ten times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u151	Frame it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u152	Thank you for all the compliments that colleagues have given us, especially to our staff. A number of members gave a brief summary of the report. We also saw a compliment in that regard. Apparently, what we have been trying to tell the Chamber has come across clearly. We love to hear that there is already movement on the international playing field. The appeal made by the Committee of Inquiry has been well heard. We need to get to work on better transport, with a better offer. As a chamber, we have to work on the scenarios. In Recommendation 3.6 we tried to say something about the role of the State. It has indeed been somewhat underexposed in the debate. However, the recommendation is rather specific. We're grateful it gets picked up like this. Certainly the inspection really picks it up, and that is so important to the travellers. We will continue to follow it all, each from its own role, for example when we see the Chamber doing business with the government, for which we have seen it motivated. Yeah, we gave taps. Mr Van Helvert is right. We can only say that we really hope that we have not beaten anyone out of the field. There's too much to do. There is too much to do with the recommendations we have made, all in the interests of travellers. We thank the Chamber for its compliments and for the way in which the Chamber intends to proceed with this. We will follow it, because we have every confidence that the traveller in this Chamber will stand on one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u153	Now that we have reached the end of the debate with the committee, I would like to thank the members of the committee. I shall begin with Mrs Van Toorenburg. On behalf of the whole Chamber, I would like to thank you very much for the important role you have played as chairman of the Committee of Inquiry. I would also like to thank Mrs Vera Bergkamp, Mr Van Gerven and Mr Ton Elias in the order of size of the party, Mrs Mei Li Vos and Mr Ton Elias. I think it is very important that small groups have also actively participated in it. It is not easy to lend a Member of Parliament more or less for two years for an important role that serves the whole Chamber and transcends the parties. You have performed that role very well, thank you for that. I would also particularly like to thank the staff who supported the committee. Without that support, the report would not have come about this way. Thank you very much for everything you have done! The debate with the government will take place at a later date. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for the wonderful work you have done.
