ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-27.u1	I welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment and I am the first and only one to give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-27.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's a unique thing that I'm the only one who speaks here. Perhaps that is also because we, as the only party, have always been very critical of the Crisis and Recovery Act. For this reason, as is now apparent, because the second evaluation also shows that the law is only doing a small amount of what it was intended to do. The Chw does not attract additional construction projects and the acceleration is also negligible, according to an article in Trouw about the outcome of the evaluation. Moreover, the Administrative Court Division of the Council of State is too often affected by the accelerated six-month time limit. For example, the highest administrative judge in our country is put in the corner by a bad law and D66 does not think that is possible. Of course, in this debate, we are not going to completely reverse the Crisis and Recovery Act, which will be incorporated into the Environment Act, but let us at least ensure that our judges do not take the fall of the law. That is why I am tabling the next motion, and I would like to thank my colleagues very much for coming to this debate specifically so that I can table my motion. The idea of my motion, of course, is to ensure that our highest administrative court has legislation that is capable of working with it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that almost 60% of the projects covered by the Crisis and Recovery Act (Chw) do not benefit from the accelerated six-month delivery period;]] [[noting that this time limit is often not met because it is only too late to discover that the Chw applies at all;]] [[noting that in this case the highest general administrative judge in the Netherlands does not feel responsible for meeting the deadlines and thus essentially does not comply with the law;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that only if a Party indicates in time that the Chw applies to a decision, the accelerated six-month time limit for ruling is effective,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32127-220]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-27.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Veldhoven started by saying that some critical notes have been cracked from D66, but I would like to mention that this is an evaluation of 2014. It is now 2016 and we see in practice that the figures have improved considerably. Instead of the 60% still mentioned in the 2014 evaluation, only 40% of the decision-making period does not benefit from the accelerated decision-making period. So you see a further improvement and it also seems good to me that the Crisis and Recovery Act will eventually become part of our regular way of working under the Environment Act. In 25% of cases, this accelerated ruling has benefited and it has also been indicated that in a limited number of cases limited benefits have been obtained. All this is important, but Mrs Van Veldhoven's question mainly relates to the time that the judge has. The government agrees with Mrs Van Veldoven that something should be made known in time for the Crisis and Recovery Act. If I may take the motion in such a way that the government agrees with the importance of the awareness of Crisis and Recovery Law cases and the timely settlement of Crisis and Recovery Law cases, then I accept the motion, or take it over, I believe is the formal term. I'm not going to make a legislative change for that, because we're going towards Environmental Law, so that would be a little overzealous. I think it is particularly important to make it clear to the parties that they must say at an early stage: I am one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-27.u4	Before I ask the Chamber whether it can agree to accept the motion, I give Mrs Van Veldhoven the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-27.u5	I am very pleased with the Minister's intention, but let me take the point in that sense that when we deal with the environmental law, because that is what we are talking about, let me look at how we ensure that awareness and whatever we ask from project promoters. Then it is not just an argument between the Minister and me about the principle that it would be as beautiful as that, but also about the way in which we are going to give it hands and feet. Otherwise, it will remain an intention, and I would regret that. If the Minister says that this is a good thing and that she will come back with a more concrete answer when dealing with the introduction law, I can indeed have the motion taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-27.u6	You can also hold or withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-27.u7	I do like that the Minister shares my intention. I would have liked that recorded by taking over this motion. Then I would just like to announce to the Minister that, in the further examination of the Environment Act and its decisions, let us look again at how we can ensure that it is not just words, but that something really is going to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-27.u8	I hear that Mrs Van Veldhoven, at least that is how I read it, is pleased with my answer and that she would like to know later how it will take shape in the implementation law. Then there is no more Crisis and Recovery Act, but an Environment Act. I won't be here by then, but Mrs Van Veldhoven may still be here. I will at least tell my successor that Mrs Van Veldhoven is going to start this up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-27.u9	It is important that this motion be taken over, because it will remain a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-27.u10	Your point is clear. Which of the Members opposes the adoption of this motion in accordance with Rule 66 of our Rules of Procedure? Turns out nobody does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-27.u11	The motion will therefore not be put to the vote.
