ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. It is good to remove barriers to trade. Dutch entrepreneurs depend heavily on foreign markets and good relationships. Our business is at the forefront of quality and sustainability. Our business is ready for a smart 21st century industry. Just now, through TTIP, Brussels wants to harmonise standards with an economy that has stuck in the Anglo-Saxon fossil world of the 20th century. Through massive international treaties, Brussels creates large economic blocs, with national legislation in the financial sector, health care and food and energy supply being pushed into the background. The most important part of TTIP is the Investment Court System, the ICS. This is not substantially different from the previous ISDS. This will allow US companies to sue any European country that changes its laws. That charge is not dealt with by Dutch judges who apply Dutch law, but by international judges in a separate judicial body. The Christian Union believes that the Netherlands should give up a piece of its sovereignty and that this should not happen. That is why I ask the Minister whether the Commission has indeed urged the national governments, including the Dutch Government, to launch a pro-TTIP-pr campaign. Does the Dutch government participate in this TTIP promotion? How much Dutch money is involved in this? Does this mean that the Netherlands has already agreed to TTIP and cannot go back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u2	Madam President. It is not the case that Mrs Malmström has called for a PR campaign pro TTIP. That would be inappropriate, too, I think. What matters is that the Netherlands has a great interest in ensuring that good open trade is possible in the world. The Netherlands has a very strong export sector which in recent years, when our economy was struggling, has kept up the momentum by increasing exports every year. It is in our interest that this continues. Good international agreements offer good opportunities for our business. A lot needs to be done in the context of the TTIP negotiations. The 28 Member States unanimously authorised the European Commission to do so. The European Commission is now negotiating. There is a lot of interaction between the Member States and therefore between the Netherlands, in particular my colleague Mrs Ploumen, and the European Commission to share all kinds of things that are currently going on. What is going on is particularly reflected in the dialogue we are engaged in. We are not campaigning and we are not making propaganda, but we are engaged in a dialogue with all kinds of organisations, institutions and individuals who feel involved in TTIP. Mrs Ploumen has been working on this in many ways. European Commissioners are regularly in the Netherlands to consult with Parliament and at other times with employers and employees in order to find out as much as possible what is going on and what views there are. It takes that into account in the negotiations that are going on. There is no question of a public relations campaign. The Netherlands does not therefore feed it. As far as the agreement of the Netherlands is concerned, it depends a little on how the case is judged. Is it a treaty for which only the European Commission is competent or is it a treaty for which the Member States are also competent? In the latter case, the House of Representatives is also involved. In the first case, the Dutch contribution is made through the Council of Ministers and through the input on behalf of the Council of Ministers into the European Council, in addition to the input that will still be provided by the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u3	I hear the Minister say that there is still room for dialogue and that there will still be a lot of water flowing through the Rhine, but yet we see that Mrs Malmström is engaged in a goodwill campaign in Europe to make spirits ripe for TTIP, recently in Amsterdam. Follow the Money has reported on memos at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that failure is not an option. In short, TTIP must be there. I therefore ask where there is room for Minister Ploumen to negotiate in the near future. Can this Minister guarantee that European standards will not be lowered and that the Dutch State will not receive claims from foreign companies? What does the Minister think of the German judges' appeal against ICS? Is the cabinet prepared, for example, to ask the Dutch Council for its opinion on the question of whether it is actually giving up some of our sovereignty here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u4	A large number of questions go beyond reasonable in this Question Time, but I would like to leave it to you, Mr President, to have an opinion on them. In general, I note that Mrs Ploumen, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, is not negotiating. That is what we mandated the European Commission to do. The dialogue I have just mentioned is conducted both by the representatives of the European Commission and by the ministers of the various Member States. For the Netherlands, this is in particular the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The information that emerges from the dialogue, which my colleague considers relevant to the negotiators, will be exchanged with the negotiators. In this way we will see whether the final result is also a broad and well-balanced treaty which is in the interests of both continents involved, but certainly also of the Netherlands. Depending on this, the Netherlands or through the involvement of the Lower House or through the involvement of the Council of Ministers will eventually be able to give an opinion on the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u5	I hear the Minister say: we are not negotiating, we can enter into a dialogue and we can have an opinion on something at the end. That says something about this treaty, which is going to give us another piece of sovereignty. I have the impression that as a parliament we are allowed to put a point and a comma and that it is actually for us here in the Netherlands. I ask the Minister whether it is possible to send a letter to the Chamber showing how the cabinet intends to address the concerns of this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u6	I believe that much has already been exchanged between the Chamber and the Cabinet, in particular with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. On 8 June 2015, she sent a letter to the Chamber setting out how the dialogue we are discussing will be completed. I can tell you that this is also happening very intensively. I will not list all the bodies, associations and people with whom we have spoken, but this dialogue is being pursued very actively. In a more general sense, I believe that a well-balanced treaty is in the interests of all countries, including the Netherlands in particular. I believe that if we are linked in the world through fair trade and profit from it economically, this is good for world relations and is of great importance for prosperity, not only in the Netherlands but also in other countries. The United States has just concluded a trade agreement with the Pacific. Now there is the debate between the United States and the EU. I see that as constructive movements that are in the interests of ultimately all people in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u7	In my view, this TTIP agreement is a stranglehold agreement, a kind of constitution for multinationals. We shouldn't have that. Fortunately, the Labour Party voted against that treaty at its congress on Saturday. So that majority is getting further and further out of sight. We disagree on that treaty, but I do not think that it is mysterious about it, about all the documents that are decided and hidden. For example, as a Member of Parliament, you have to go to a secret reading room to read those pieces. I'm gonna do that tomorrow, but I can't share that with anyone. Does the Minister share the view that this is a weakness and that he should seek transparency? Will the Minister come with me tomorrow to say that secrecy is actually a very bad idea and that this reading room, with all those TTIP documents, is being opened up to everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u8	First of all, I don't think "multinationals" is a dirty word. They contribute to employment and prosperity in the Netherlands and in other countries of the world. I do not think it is right that multinationals should be treated in the same way and that they should be qualified in a negative way. Negotiations, of course, take place partly on the basis of tactics. You try to realize certain things and make others discussable. It's not good to make everything out of your own position in negotiations public. What can be published will be exchanged on the Internet and used in the dialogue at both national and European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u9	The Minister of Economic Affairs just said something curious. He said: when the European Union is finished talking, the treaty comes either through parliament or through the cabinet. The Chamber has stated that it must always come through Parliament. It has always been the cabinet's commitment that Parliament should express its opinion on it. How this will ultimately take place is still at the Court in Strasbourg. The commitment of the Dutch cabinet has always been that Parliament will eventually have to talk about it. I hope that this is still the position of the cabinet and I would like to hear confirmation of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u10	I just wanted to give you an idea of what the formal procedure is like. There is a procedure before the European Court of Justice on Singapore, where the debate is on whether such a treaty is an "EU only" treaty or a "mixed competence" treaty. If it is an "EU-only" treaty, the European Commission should conclude that treaty and involve the European Parliament and the European Council. The Prime Minister will go to the European Council after he has discussed it in the Council of Ministers. That's the formal plan. If it is a mixed competence treaty, the European Commission and the European Parliament must agree and all 28 Member States must agree to it. In that case, formal agreement of the House of Representatives is also at issue. If it is "EU only" and a power of the Council of Ministers, you also have the normal traffic between the Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives. I did not wish to provide any additional information on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you. We have now come to Mrs Karabulut's last question. The Secretary of State is still on his way, so we'll wait until the Secretary of State arrives.
