ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. I give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am also getting tired of standing here every time in the interests of the e.g. the Netherlands and KLM because I think that too little is happening. Recently, there has also been a request for the urgent debate supported by the Chamber: I can no longer speak of an urgent debate on the Trust Together plan presented by the holding company Air France-KLM. I would like to add that Air France-KLM's current top man is a youth friend of the French President. That's where it starts: they have very close ties. In other words, the French President has simply directed it. Let's just be honest with each other and say this is true. This is my biggest concern right now. We have been here for years with the same stories. The French bought and bought extra power and position and the Netherlands continued to watch. That's literally in the letter. Well, the Trust Together program doesn't mention the transfer of the maintenance division, 4,000 jobs. That's a plan. It is a very profitable division of KLM. It's called Engineering & Maintenance. I'm sorry to use English words, but that's the name of the division. It's being transferred. What are the consequences of that? How many of those 4,000 jobs are soon taken by French people? How many are going to disappear? The possible transfer of parts of the fleet, that network, is still open. So that program doesn't do us any good. That's fuzzy pee-pee! It's fun: KLM can work more with Transavia and you name it. But that doesn't do us any good. In concrete terms, it doesn't say anything. It's a woolly snooping story. Why an announced review of that maintenance division? Why? There's been clear agreements, isn't there? Isn't that what the government sent us in May and November 2015? That's what it says: no further transfers. Even the Finance Minister, sitting next to me, advocates an independent KLM and calls for no parts of KLM to be transferred to the French holding company in Paris. Who saw and approved this Trust Together plan from the Netherlands? I can't wait to see that. And what does the appointment of the operational director at Air France mean for the position of our president-director of KLM, whom we would like to retain? KLM should never have been sold. Let's get that straight. But that's just the way it is, so we have to do the best we can for a second. Who's going to be the new boss of the Engineering & Maintenance division of Air France-KLM? Who's that gonna be? Is that gonna be a Dutchman? Well, I'm telling you not to. He'll be a Frenchman, too. We always let those French eat the Dutch cheese of French baguettes and we watch and do nothing. What are the consequences of the separation of KLM's maintenance division with those 4,000 jobs with a turnover of millions, tens of millions, with long-term contracts with Asian airlines? That's gonna be another parliamentary survey. I guarantee it. We shouldn't be watching this anymore. I really want to have this tonight, preferably orally, so that I do not have to make any motions, because there I am getting diarrhea from so slowly that the Minister and the Secretary of State who are here on behalf of the government promise us that the commitments they confirmed in the letter in May 2015 and which they reconfirmed in November 2015 will become firm guarantees. I want this to happen, especially to us as members of the States-General, who have to control the government and guard the e.g. the Netherlands and also such a wonderful company as KLM. We do not want that butter-soft memorandum or understanding anymore, because that is nothing at all; that is butter-soft. We want firm guarantees, if necessary at ministerial level. We want state guarantees: we do not want transfers of KLM parts and we want that independent position guaranteed. Finally, I would ask the government to identify the consequences of the development of the Trust Together programme for KLM, Schiphol and the Dutch economy and employment. I also want the government to see how the Dutch State can take on as much importance as the French State in the holding company Air France-KLM, because then we will have the power and strength we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u3	Mr. Chairman. In order to prevent the Minister of Finance from having that song in his head for the rest of the week, I shall not mention the Poppys. Anyway, it looks a bit like it, because when you read the program Trust Together, you get the impression that there is little news under the sun except the new society Boost, which is foreseen. Is the government's appreciation that there is now peace in the tent? That is, of course, at the heart of the matter. The key question is also whether the letter of March 2015 that we also talked about two weeks ago still stands. Are the commitments that have been made in it also hard enough? That's really the essence. With regard to the SP, the document has not immediately caused the concerns and the panic that Mr Graus has just expressed, but it is a good thing that we are talking about this right now, because it is important. I therefore ask the government to confirm orally once again that what is in this strategy is in line with what was promised in a letter to the Chamber in March 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u4	We see what happens to PostNL now. I predicted that ten years ago; that was in 2006. If we're not careful, this is going to happen to KLM, too. I'm just asking the government to intervene in time. Each parliamentary survey shows that the Chamber and the Government have not been timely. Timeliness is important. It's not about panic or unrest, but I'm worried, and those concerns are justified. We are talking directly about thousands of jobs and indirectly about tens of thousands of jobs. It concerns billions of e.g. the Netherlands. All that is important, including for the people at home. We have to deal with that responsibly. Mr Smaling apparently has a glass ball. I hope he gets that peace of mind, but I gotta tell you, I can't sleep anymore. So I would like to know from Mr Smaling where he is getting his rest today, because there is nothing in that woolly nose piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u5	The passion and intentions that Mr Graus has been exhibiting for years with regard to the position of KLM fully share the SP. I just want to praise him for being the first person on the microphone to ring the bell every time. I welcome that; let me be very clear about that. But the four pages of text now before me give me a little more peace than I had two weeks ago before I had seen the text. In that sense, I expected it to be worse. The government also said in that little debate: don't worry too much. As far as I am concerned, this is now confirmed in the text before us. But I will mention a few more things, and I think I will get close to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u6	Finally and briefly, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u7	I know that the SP is always at the forefront when it comes to PostNL and jobs. I would also like to congratulate Mr Smaling for that. But keep in mind that we're gonna lose jobs. Jobs are being transferred and they end up with French people and not us. Again, we need to take our responsibilities now. It is one of the last times, because we may never get support for an urgent debate again; let us be careful about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u8	I think that the fact that we are debating this matter so soon after that strategy has come out and the fact that we debated it two weeks ago because we are concerned is also a means of pressure. We are, of course, sending a message to the rulers, but the people in France are also watching. I think we are taking up this role that we can play in this. Mr Graus has a very important role to play in this. I don't even have to admit it, because he just does. I think we're doing the right thing. We must therefore be vigilant, not only today, but also in the future. If there is another reason to be more concerned, then Mr Graus and I are standing side by side with the microphone again. On a few points in the strategy, I would like a more specific answer. The holding company is of course about the new company Boost, but how does the government see it? We're talking about ten planes. Are there gonna be any pilots who want to fly those planes with those less good working conditions? The level of remuneration provided for there is a lot lower than what is currently the measure of things in Air France. Does that have a future? Or are you going to pull the holding company back on a path that might not be desirable? I can't get that out of the pieces. Mr Graus mentioned Engineering & Maintenance. The text contains a review and it says "potential corporation." I wonder if it is intended to be a separate unit throughout the holding company. If so, there is a change that goes a little further than a cosmetic one. A few phrases about the cargoes. I'm not sure if belly transport is being fully deployed, so that the traditional cargo gets in the background. Maybe it isn't, but if the government knows that, I'd love to hear it. The pieces often say "we need to be more productive" and "we need to make more savings." You hear that often, but looking at the performance of the two main participants in the holding company, I see that Air France has KLM's turnover one and a half times, but that KLM earns twice as much profit as Air France. So there's an imbalance between the two big partners. When it is said 'we all need to increase productivity' and 'we all need to cut costs', I have a bit of a problem with that. Then you will also soon come to the actions that are taking place at Schiphol Airport and are then exposed to this imbalance. I have a bit of a hard feeling about that. The last question has already been asked by Mr Graus: does it not make sense for the Netherlands to take a greater interest in the holding company, for example an interest equal to the interest held by the French State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u9	Mr. Chairman. I think it's good we're back here. I thank the Cabinet for the speedy appreciation of the Trust Together plan. In the plan we see that there is no coup. That was a bit of the fear and unrest that lived here in the Chamber. Nor does it say that anything is being transferred or that KLM should not grow or grow less. The concern is that the opposite is not in the plan either. It doesn't say that maintenance will not be transferred, one day or soon. It doesn't say that it doesn't mean that they're allowed to grow at once. There's nothing in it about maintaining your own view of cash. Perhaps we would have preferred that clarification. After all, there is now a certain suspicion between Air France and KLM. As a result, they also hold each other in a grip, because both require reorganisation, with Air France more than with KLM. So I understand the words of the SP, but both require reorganisation in order to become more competitive vis-à-vis the real enemies. Janaillac, the manager of the holding company, did well in that plan: the real opposition and competition lies not in Paris or Amsterdam, but in the Middle East, in Turkey and in the rest of the world; that is competition. We ask the Cabinet to what extent, looking at this plan, the 2015 agreement that there will be no transfer of business from KLM to Air France in the short or long term will take place within the holding company. That deal is very important. And to what extent is the agreement made that KLM may continue to have its own cash and the agreement that KLM may grow equally and grow separately from Air France? At that point, I have a question about the new low-cost carrier Air France will set up. We understand that Transavia must not grow now because a new low-cost carrier is being set up in Paris. To what extent does this fit in with the agreement that we may grow equally or that the growth of one for the other will not be an obstacle? It seems that the latter is the case. To what extent did KLM have a role in this? What's the Cabinet gonna do with that strategy? We're not talking about maintaining the company. That's what the company will do. The Minister and the Secretary of State always start with this very clearly: we are not in the chair of the Executive Board. We are here for national interest. The Minister and the Secretary of State have said: you can always address us to that. That's what we're doing now. We address them to the national interest. What will the cabinet do in bilateral agreements with France? I heard Mr Smaling say that he has a stake in the holding company, as we have suggested before. What are we going to do to play it the French way, as the French do? In the previous debate we briefly said: look also at the political situation in France. Janaillac is no stranger to the Prime Minister of France. It will soon have to do with elections, so there should be no unrest just before those elections. That political situation will play out. We can't deny it. We will therefore have to adapt our political strategy accordingly. Maybe the Minister can give us a look at that. Can the Minister also indicate as a shareholder of KLM what KLM's plans are for the reorganisation? Reorganisation will certainly be necessary, especially given that the reorganisation in France, where much more is needed, is so difficult. And can KLM continue to grow in line with the 2020 strategic plans, which represent growth in return for productivity gains?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u10	Mr. Chairman. I thank the cabinet for the rapid appreciation of the new strategic plan Trust Together of the holding company Air France-KLM. This is a strong piece of proactive information, as we like to see it as a Chamber. After reading the plan and the reactions to it, perhaps you can say very carefully: the soup is not eaten as hot as it was served. The pilots' union says KLM is largely out of the loop. Journalists are also given the interpretation that the threat is gone. However, the letter from the cabinet leaves a number of questions unanswered for my group. We'd like that answered. That's why it's a good thing we're here today, cozy, together. For example, I have questions about the new company to be created, which is to be exclusively covered by Air France. The growth that this new society must achieve is intended solely to strengthen the Paris hub. My question is: to what extent will this growth in the longer term not be at the expense of KLM's market share and therefore of Schiphol's network quality, without KLM or us as a government being able to influence it? In other words, one starts small now, with only ten aircraft, but can't this company grow into a new competitor of KLM and thus also of Schiphol? Is there any chance we could use this to bring in a Trojan horse? Is it true that the purchase of the aircraft is financed from the holding company's money and thus from KLM's profits? I'm coming to Transavia. I think it is a good thing that Transavia's governance does not change anything. Transavia, however, will no longer concentrate on the European market but solely on the French and Dutch domestic markets. What exactly is this going to mean, when a new base was recently opened in Munich? Is this decision now beneficial or detrimental to Transavia Netherlands? What does the Cabinet expect of the elaboration of the new strategy on this specific point? I come to the hot hanger: Engineering & Maintenance. Some of my colleagues have already referred to this. Trust Together is not at all conclusive about this. However, we are talking about 5,000 jobs in the Netherlands. I read that the cabinet will pay particular attention to the study of the future of this business. I have the following questions. When will this study be completed? What does the Cabinet know about the scenarios on the table? And what does "special attention" even mean? How exactly does the cabinet keep its finger on the wrist? I'm rounding up. Neither the plan nor the letter from the cabinet provides an answer on the question: are the agreements of 2015 actually being complied with? Has the cabinet now received a guarantee on this point, or is all this still to be demonstrated by the impact? I look forward to answering the questions. I must say, however, that I find it special that we are talking about Trust Together, but that there are only questions that give rise to some kind of mistrust. That's kind of irony.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u11	Mr. Chairman. If existing agreements are threatened or if Dutch jobs are at stake, the VVD Group is always and at any time of the day willing to hold a debate on the KLM. See the debate we had in this place less than two weeks ago. The guarantees that KLM can grow independently while maintaining employment in the Netherlands appear to be standing still today, but we will of course remain very vigilant in this respect. I would like to stress that Mr Graus and Mr Smaling do not have the monopoly on caring for the KLM and on caring for the jobs of our blue swan. That's what we care about. But we are not going to assess the content of the new strategy of a listed company here in this house. That's not our job. Air France-KLM has to reduce the cost level and it is up to the company itself in what way that is concretely designed. This is not a matter for politics. As far as I am concerned, this debate is on...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u12	Mr Graus has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u13	And one comment, Mr President. That is precisely why, in a few weeks' time, Mr Elias, I believe on 21 November, will receive one of France's highest awards, and why I hope one day will get a ribbon from our king and queen. That is exactly the difference. I'm only standing here for KLM. I have nothing to do with the French. I am a Dutch representative and I stand up for the interests of e.g. the Netherlands and for Dutch employment, which I may have already announced that this is going to happen, and Mr Elias also knows that this is going to be lost. That's what's gonna happen. We need to act on time now. Mr Elias acts as if nothing is going on. That's not true. At KLM, everyone's worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u14	You may put a question to Mr Elias.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u15	Yeah, so I'd like to have a reaction to that. Mr Elias is acting as if nothing was wrong. That Trust Together doesn't guarantee anything at all. Absolutely nothing! There's no guarantee in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u16	I always hesitate to make a personal statement, especially from this place. So I will simply comment on the substance. It is tacky that Mr Graus involves the fact that I am being given a high decoration by the French Government, but that indicates his own level. That's not right. I get that award because I helped in the background to show the ambassador in the Netherlands on some difficult dossiers. They weren't about the KLM. It would be a credit to Mr Graus if he were to take that back, but he will probably not be able to do so. That's one. Two, more in substance, is that I did not say that we are not concerned about the KLM, that it is all a bit nonchalant or whatever. I have said in all the debates so far: if French politicians try to exert political pressure on the holding company Air France-KLM, which is based in Paris, to the detriment of KLM in the Netherlands, I think it is right and proper that Dutch politicians should push back a little. That terminology has been adopted for a reason. That's what we can and should do. But politics shouldn't probably be just disagreeing on that, so let's just sit on the entrepreneur's seat. This company has to solve its own problems. By the way, this company has started late itself, but that's an observation; I'm not gonna tell you what it's gonna do with repairing and starting tough cost operations. It should have been ten years ago. Certainly, it is unwise that we, as a government, gave away a number of guarantees in 2010. But the current situation is that the company itself has to do a number of things and that politics must be on top of that in the person of the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. They are very trusted, although they are not entirely of my political colour, as I said last time, but I trust them completely in that area. But the Chamber should not engage in a debate to interfere with the substance of that holding company's policy at every point in France or whispered to by lobbyists or stakeholders. That's not our role. I do not wish that to be confused with the idea that the VVD would not see the importance of employment in the KLM, of the feelings for our blue swan and of the feelings of national pride when another beautiful plane lands. I'm not gonna let that get to me! We are on top of it, only we as politicians have to... then we simply have to work for that enterprise ourselves! By the way, the last time that happened, with Eurlings, it was not such a great success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u17	Mr Graus, finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u18	I hope that I can respond as long as I do, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u19	No, wait a minute. Mr Graus, finally, briefly and not on the person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u20	But so much has been said; I must be able to respond to that. That's gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u21	No, you may ask a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u22	But Mr Elias has a whole speech to make, and I must now respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u23	You may ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u24	I share two things: the pride of the blue swan and the compliments to the Secretary of State. I share that with Mr Elias. Furthermore, we have everything to do with this. We are members of the Dutch States General. We control the government, which is a shareholder within KLM. It concerns thousands to tens of thousands of jobs, directly and indirectly. We are talking about the Netherlands, for example! I get to get involved in anything! If I feel that it is going wrong and if it is being said by internal sources, then I have a duty, as sworn member of the States-General, to take action. Mr Elias should know, because he has also dealt with a committee of inquiry, and I too,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u25	I didn't get out. I finished it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u26	Mr Graus has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u27	Well, I've been in it for two and a half years, Mr Elias, and I did get out a few weeks in advance, because I couldn't and couldn't ask everything I wanted. You'll read that in my book someday. But I've been in it for two and a half years and I've always...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u28	I'm gonna move in! This is out of order. Mr Graus can ask a short question. Mr Elias can reply briefly. If things are out of order, I'll cut them off. You may ask a question, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u29	I don't know you like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u30	No, but otherwise the debate is going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u31	No, okay, but a lot is being said here, Mr President, with all due respect. Let me be brief. Mr Elias once sat with a wet buttock in front of a committee of inquiry and I did not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u32	Mr. Elias.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u33	I have not heard a question in this and I have not found any coherent argument in it either. What we can do here...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u34	I believe that Mr Smaling also has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u35	Yeah, at the same time. I have a bit of the impression that Mr Elias thinks that in this Chamber we should not really talk about any listed company at all, because these companies are making their own policies. We are talking about a lot of jobs here, and there is an imbalance, as I said myself. Mr Elias knows as well as I do about the actions of ground staff and cabin crew. This is now getting a bit in the mood of KLM: boys, don't complain because we need to cut back and increase productivity. When it comes to so many jobs, isn't that the perfect time for the Chamber to find something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u36	There is a reason why I supported the request for the previous debate, precisely in order to be able to discuss it. Great, threatening clouds then gathered together, and that is why we felt it was very important to get a re-confirmation, through these rulers, of the letter sent to us by the Cabinet last March. We can, of course, express our opinion on this in a general way. But if a business idea is presented, as was done two weeks ago in Paris, in which there are no concrete intentions that the KLM would undermine in the Netherlands. If there's any real reason, we'll hang out together. That is why it annoys me that it is now being done as if the parties who look at it differently do not have the same concerns about the KLM, the jobs and all that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u37	The more fundamental point is that Mr Elias seems to think that Parliament has no role to play in putting pressure on listed companies if it feels that the case is going in the wrong direction. We are not on the board and we are not top men who I do not know what bonuses are on top of their salary, but we do have a role here, namely to steer that tent in the right direction. Mr Elias agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u38	We can give our opinion, but the government cannot sit on the entrepreneur's seat to decide what should or should not happen, whether or not there should be a maintenance leg, and if so, where and how. That's not up to us. That's not up to us! That's what the company's about. I would love it if KLM's entire maintenance department could grow tremendously in the coming years, for example in Asia, where all kinds of good opportunities seem to lie. That sounds great to me! I'm not getting involved in that. If the holding company's strategic choice were to grow there, with positive effects on employment in the Netherlands and France, that would be great. But that is up to the French and the Dutch in the board in Paris to decide for themselves. That's how I look at it. Maybe we disagree; that is possible. But what we can do...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u40	...if I may continue my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u41	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u42	What the Netherlands can do, and what I think and according to the VVD also has to do much more, is not to make laws and regulations that are particularly detrimental to Air France-KLM. I am thinking, for example, of the CDA's flight tax, of all kinds of sustainability regulations and growth restrictions of D66 and the Labour Party, and of the ban on domestic flights from GroenLinks. That sounds nice on paper, but that costs the company a lot of money, while Schiphol, on a global scale, already scores extremely high, which is quite right to do so when it comes to reducing environmental and noise pollution. In future, therefore, let colleagues really think twice when making such proposals. In this way, we can help Air France-KLM much better, rather than pouring all kinds of crocodile tears later on in this place. I've used that word before. I'm rounding up. This company is now on its own initiative, but we, as politicians, will continue to pay close attention. I hope that we will make less strange demands on Schiphol, for example, so that companies such as the KLM can have less growth there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u43	Mr. Chairman. Allow me one personal note. When I hear how much love is here for the KLM, and that goes for me too, I would almost like to say as a simple spokesperson track: let us sell some of the shares of the NS, perhaps to the French, so that love in the Chamber for the rail and for the NS will increase as much as love for our national airline. Anyway, all crazy on a stick! We are talking about an important issue today. It is ultimately about the balance between a strong company and the interests of the Netherlands and of Dutch jobs. The Association of Dutch Traffic Pilots considers the Trust Together plan and the principle of "one group, two airlines" as follows: dark clouds remain out, but vigilance is still needed. In that context, I have a number of questions, all of which have already been asked here. What about the future of Transavia, Munich and Martinair's freight company in the context of the vision of the future that has been laid down? To what extent can the independence of KLM's maintenance division, and perhaps its combination with Air France's maintenance division, lead to the disappearance of Dutch jobs? How does the cabinet view this? What about the financing of the new airline, or rather the new one, Boost? The financing takes place from the holding company. On the one hand, that may be good for the holding company's position, and therefore also indirectly for KLM. On the other hand, there is, of course, cross-subsidisation between a healthy company and a company that is slightly less healthy. How does the cabinet view this in the light of the interests of the Netherlands and as a shareholder of KLM? There is also a double function. I refer to the double position at Air France and the KLM holding and at Air France on the board. What is the impact of this dual function on the balance sheet across the company and on choices that are made? I'm not trying to make it personal. I ask the question a little more separately from the people. I would like to point out that the PvdA has made proposals in the past to increase the point-to-point tax. That would be to the advantage of KLM at Schiphol. Can the cabinet reflect on the state of play in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u44	I would ask Members who take part in this debate to have the debate here rather than on Twitter. I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State for her first answer. You're connected!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u45	Attaboy, Mr. Chairman, we're connected. Oh, I can't do that anymore. Sorry, I'm connected. I'm not looking at anyone in particular. Mr. Chairman. We had a debate on Air France-KLM two weeks ago. Many members have recalled that. The new plans were not known at the time. There were all reports in the media that gave rise to concern; understandably, so I say. At that time, we promised that we would give the Chamber a quick appreciation of the plans of the management of Air France-KLM. Those plans became public on 3 November. As Mrs Belhaj said, we gave the Chamber an appreciation on 3 November in the evening. The starting point is, and will continue to be, I cannot repeat that often enough. That's what the Cabinet stands for. This concerns the quality of the network at the Mainport Schiphol Airport and employment. KLM has to keep a sufficiently independent position on this matter, which we also exchanged last time. Moreover, we do not want to transfer jobs to Paris. That is the angle from which we look at the plans. Mr Elias raised the issue of Air France-KLM's own responsibility for business management and the strategy. I said in one of my first debates that we are not in the cockpit here. I can't repeat that enough. The Trust Together project can be a good step towards improving the company's competitiveness. Increasing productivity and reducing costs is actually very much needed for the whole company. The recently published figures for the third quarter also underline this. This means that improving financial results must provide scope for investment for a sound future. This applies to Air France, but also to KLM. Just a moment ago, a debate was held on working conditions, but it is important that KLM can continue on that road. This is also very important for the future of the company. On the positive side, the Trust Together plan also strengthens efforts to take significant steps at Air France. That's where they want to set up a new subsidiary. I will answer a number of questions about this and the Minister will comment on the issue of funding. Air France is therefore seeking to set up a long-haul airline to operate at a lower cost. This in itself is a new way of improving the competitive position of the holding company as a whole. Transavia and KLM will further strengthen each other, including in network development. Transavia also remains an independent part of the KLM Group and we think this is positive. We have had a debate on this before in the Chamber. On 26 October many groups pointed out the agreements we made with Air France-KLM in 2015. I think it is good to say the following in response to Mr Graus' comments on this subject. Mr Graus himself mentioned the MoU and said that it was not really strong enough. For this reason, my predecessor made agreements with Mr De Juniac in March 2015, including the maintenance of the financial management of KLM, the preservation of the Dutch foundations with KLM shares and the state guarantees. I travelled to Paris in November 2015. Mr De Juniac reaffirmed these agreements in our consultations. These are agreements that are reconfirmed on behalf of the company. So this has nothing to do with who's CEO at the time. I have also had good discussions with Mr Janaillac since his arrival. As we should have done, we have also raised Dutch interests. He's well informed and we'll be in close contact. However, I am not going to constantly question the previous agreements, because then it seems as if those agreements that have been reaffirmed to me need to be reconfirmed again and again. In fact, you are suggesting that they are not such firm agreements, and I do not think that is wise. They were made and we sent them to the Chamber in a letter. I've been reconfirmed upon my arrival. That was on behalf of the holding company. I'm assuming they're standing, period. So we're not gonna question that ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u46	I already referred to the letter of November 2015 on the reconfirmation, but I do not understand why there will be a review. I was talking about the maintenance division, Engineering & Maintenance. If these agreements are in place, there doesn't need to be a review anymore and then those 4,000 jobs stay good in the Netherlands. We have nice long-term contracts with the Asians, and you name it. We get tens of millions out of it. Then we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u47	I will go into it a little more in a moment, but the answer is short and good that the holding company as a whole is looking for an opportunity to make its position globally competitive. The cost-effectiveness of maintenance by the Engineering & Maintenance department should also be taken into account. That review is not contrary to the agreements made, because it is about how Air France-KLM as a whole can become more competitive on that theme. Mr Janaillac reaffirmed in the Dutch press that this was not about transferring jobs from the Netherlands to France. If that were the purpose of the study, Mr Graus would have a point. We have said that this is a lot of jobs. The Dutch Government has seen that there is a intention to conduct a study. Of course, we are going to follow closely where that leads and what that means, but I am not saying that this is contrary to the agreement if it is not at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u48	We're way ahead of you. The Asians love KLM's maintenance division. It's a very profitable organization. I'm worried about it anyway, because that guarantee is not going to be given to the Secretary of State, and I know that for sure, because that's why the review is coming. In a few months' time we will be summoned back to stand here and then it appears that so many thousand jobs are being transferred to the holding company in Paris and that they also leave a thousand jobs with us. That's just gonna happen. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if we, as Members of Parliament, can have a guarantee that this will not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u49	There is no decision yet on the independence of that whole branch of sport. There is a plan for a study on the possibility of self-determination. Mr Graus is absolutely right that the existing global position is good. They want to increase them further, as does efficiency. Moreover, the maintenance sectors are already working closely together and making agreements on the division of labour. If a doom scenario were to be discussed, Mr Graus would not have to ask me to get to work, because we did not say in that letter that we are following it closely. That is not because we do not want to see whether there is a transfer of jobs, but because we are keeping our finger on the pulse. The fact that the holding company as such is engaged in the question of how all branches of the company can become more cost-effective is very important for the whole company, including KLM. That is really necessary, because the competition is not between Air France and KLM, but between the holding company and Emirates and all the others who have very low costs. Mr Smaling asked whether the strategy was in line with the letter of the Chamber. He has also mentioned the public interest, which I have just emphasized in detail. We note that these interests are safeguarded by the present plan, which needs to be further developed. In reply to Mr Graus' questions on interview, I said that we are paying close attention to what is being done with this research, what is coming out of it and what is its meaning. Several members have asked about the Boost project. This is, of course, mostly an amendment to Air France. It could improve the competitive position of Air France, and thus of the holding company. They asked what happens to cargo. The Trust Together plan only broadly indicates the plans in the field of freight. Air France-KLM suggests more focussing on cargo within long and medium-distance passenger aircraft. It is not known what that means for the full freighters, as they are so beautifully called, i.e. the planes that carry only cargo. However, an overall global trend in aviation is that more and more cargo goes on passenger aircraft instead of using specially self-contained cargo aircraft. Mr Van Helvert assessed the plan and read the appreciation of the cabinet. He is not so much concerned about what is in the plan as about whether there should be a number of things in the plan that are missing now. I think the public interests are secured. The agreements we have made on this are in place. The choice for a new society, Boost, is independent of the choice to focus on Transavia on Schiphol and Paris. I will say something about this in a moment, as Mrs Belhaj also spoke about it. Mr Elbers has also said that it is precisely at Schiphol Airport that we are going to strengthen our relationship with Transavia. Transavia's focus on Schiphol and its connection with KLM can contribute to strengthening the network at Schiphol. In this connection, Mrs Belhaj wondered whether, as it were, one was not competing with each other. For KLM and Transavia Air France and Boost are not direct competitors. They can be better seen as an opportunity for the group to retain or attract as many activities as possible. KLM, Air France and Boost compete mainly with other airlines and not with each other. It is also an advantage for Air France and KLM that they can coordinate activities and strengthen the hubs. In his press conference Mr Janaillac said that there are two hubs, Charles de Gaulle and Schiphol, and that they both need to be made strong. That's the job. In addition, airlines must be made strong, as competitiveness must be strengthened vis-à-vis others outside the holding company.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u50	This is listening closely, so I want to make sure I have understood the Secretary of State correctly. It states that it is certain that this new initiative will not lead directly or indirectly to competition for KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u51	In the end, this plan must be further developed. The Chamber demands firm guarantees from the cabinet, which has no direct involvement with the holding company and its strategy. I don't think that's entirely fair. The Chamber must ask us whether we are certain of the Dutch interests. We have to keep an eye on that. At the moment when these interests are at stake, we are in the rifle. We do that sometimes and square public. Sometimes we do that behind the scenes, because that is also effective, I have noticed. It is about what Janaillac himself said: KLM is already growing and with this plan he wants to make it possible for Air France to grow again. If Air France grows and the holding company as such becomes stronger, that is also good for KLM. It is therefore important to reason from that thought and from the things that are said about it. You can also see that this new airline mainly wants to take the routes that Air France itself has lost in recent years. I think that is an important argument. We're following developments. We also think it is important for Air France to get back on its feet. That's gotta do it somehow. We cannot put an asterisk in everything and say that we might find that complicated, especially if this is the underlying argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u52	I really understand what the Secretary of State is saying, but the discussion is about whether the cake is being made bigger now, so everyone is in the end happy now or is being redistributed. Sometimes it looks like a redistribution; that's my fear of what I see now. I understand, however, that the Secretary of State has understood my comment and will try to prevent it in her own way. My second question concerned the purchase of different aircraft, which could allow the new society to grow. I haven't heard anything specific about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u53	The Minister of Finance will deal with this, because it is about money. I'll come back to the picture of the cake. This is about the piece of cake we lost to someone else who's got it right in front of him right now. I don't like pie, by the way. I'm sure you'll think something else, but it's true. Mr Elias said that the company itself must solve its problems, that it must start to clean up and that the cabinet must be on top of them. There is, in my words, no patent on the love of the blue bird. I very much agree with that idea. We have already established this in previous debates. Parliament's support, with Mr Graus driving it again today, is really appreciated. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. With regard to space for aviation, we agree that it is important that growth is possible. I would like to say that it must be justified. Mr Hoogland said that some of the questions he had had had already been asked by colleagues. So I've already answered some of them. Cross-subsidisation and governance, about the functions on the board, will be addressed by the Minister of Finance. I still have the question about the point-to-point tax. We have tariff regulation at Schiphol Airport, where transfer rates are lower than point-to-point rates. You could say that this is to the advantage of KLM. That doesn't change the plan that's ahead of us now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u54	Thank you very much for your first-term reply. Before I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Mr Graus may put another question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u55	Does this also mean that KLM retains its own identity? In the previous debate, two weeks ago, I asked whether it might be 'one group, one airline'. Maybe the Secretary of State can tell us more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u56	The answer to that is "no." In the press conference, Mr Janaillac spoke very clearly about this. He too said that these are two companies that need to become strong and that they are two hubs. He has made that vision clear and we endorse it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u57	Mr. Chairman. I don't have a lot of text anymore, thanks to the Secretary of State. Nor do I think it would be useful to repeat the debate we had last time. I have another question from Mr Graus: who approved this plan? Air France-KLM's board approved it. What are the consequences for the maintenance divisions? I also spoke about this with Mr Janaillac when he was in the Netherlands. His statement is that both companies have a good maintenance division where money is earned. He's quite right to say that. As the Secretary of State pointed out, these two companies have made working arrangements on the distribution and specialisation of, for example, the type of engines. During my work visit, I was able to see that. It's extremely impressive. It was told that KLM is fully specialised in certain engines. Their maintenance is therefore done at Schiphol Airport. Air France's maintenance company specialises in other engines. Their maintenance is therefore taking place in Paris. The contracts that Mr Graus spoke of are indeed there. KLM also manages to conclude good maintenance contracts for other companies and make money from them. That's what KLM does specifically for those engines and the types she flies with herself. KLM therefore has experience with this and based on her specialization. The following approach is always creeping in on some people: if the French are getting good or better at something, it is a threat to us; can we still be good at something else? That approach is not the approach of the new top man. His theorem is: we can get much bigger in maintenance. This maintenance is not only done in Paris and Amsterdam. It is also happening at other locations in the world by Air France-KLM. There's a great growth in that. If you're good at something and you can make money out of it, it's got to get space. That's what the study looks like. We'll follow them closely with interest. As the Secretary of State says, our approach is always to keep the Dutch public interest in mind. Why doesn't the Netherlands buy more shares? That's a recurring question. However, buying more shares does not contribute at all to the problems currently faced by the two air carriers of Air France-KLM. We have often said to each other that large competitors are outside Europe, especially on long distances. We must therefore save costs and work more efficiently. That's inevitable. Indeed, it also has to do with the actions currently being carried out within KLM; it is no different. I understand that sometimes it is difficult and I hope that there will be mutual agreement, but the joint interest of companies in the long term must be at the forefront of all those involved. Buying shares of Air France-KLM does not contribute at all to the necessary process of modernisation. By the way, I follow the election programmes with interest. I have not yet found in any program the plan to purchase shares of Air France-KLM or to buy back KLM or anything like that, but it may still be. At least it was not on Mr Graus' A4's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u58	That is very lame, because this Minister knows that I have even tabled an amendment on this subject, taking the cover out of the sale of ABN AMRO. We could do that then, because that was a free sum at the time. I said that I intended to buy at least 20% of Air France-KLM's shares. I mentioned KLM back then. The Minister said to me: that is not the case; it must be about Air France-KLM shares. I changed that back then; so does the Minister. But there's no majority for it at all. What's the point if there's no majority? We have tabled amendments and motions for resolutions on this matter. We have to count our blessings, don't we? I'm about to try again, with all the wisdom of today. But the story is, there's no majority for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u59	It is exactly as Mr Graus says: there was no majority for it. That was understandable, because the cover that Mr Graus found would be at the expense of public debt. That's the same thing as raising public debt. A party can make such political choices. I merely found that I did not find that plan in the PVV election programme. It wasn't meant to be provocative. It was just a factual observation. If it's so important, it could be a good point for the election program, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u60	Let's talk about why. The French have bought more power and position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u61	Yes, but now we're repeating the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u62	They didn't just do that. They did it for a reason, because you also buy power and power. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's You're buying a position. That's why. I have been asking for years to ensure that we have at least the same interests as the French State. That's not so crazy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u63	Mr Graus and I are really making a different analysis of the problem within Air France-KLM or for Air France and KLM. The problem is not the balance of power between Paris and Amsterdam. If we continue to say this to each other, if we continue to hope that the other will not grow, so that it will not be at the expense of us, this company will perish in the long term. We're gonna have to figure that out. Janaillac understood that very well. During the press conference and interviews in Dutch newspapers, he made it quite clear that these two companies will both have to function better, have to perform better, because this will create growth space, not by transferring jobs from one company to another. That's a division of poverty. They will both have to create more jobs. This requires cost-efficiency and higher profit margins, so that investments can be made again. That applies to both companies. As long as we continue to say that the problem is with the other and that there is nothing going on with us, we are heading for the abyss. I'm using that word on purpose. Some progress has been made by the two companies in terms of cost efficiency and savings, but all competitors are doing better in terms of pace at the moment, all competitors are moving faster. It is therefore an extremely urgent situation. We need to make the analysis really sharper. If we think that it is only a divisional issue between Paris and Amsterdam, then we are not going to make it. The new top man has understood that and I very much support him in that. Then there are a number of funding questions. There was also a question about the new planes. A new company is being created within the holding company, low cost and long distance. It would be ten aircraft in that new company, but it is still unclear whether those are new or existing airplanes from Air France. I cannot answer questions about how that is financed. That's not up to me either. It is an activity within Air France, the French part. The agreement is, and it states, that the more the two airlines manage to achieve savings and work more efficiently, so to make more profit, there will be more investment space for the two airlines. That's how it works. Everyone adheres to that and that is also an important motivation for the KLM to take further steps. Mr Hoogland asked about governance and the dual function. In addition to his role as chairman and CEO of Air France-KLM, Mr Janaillac will also be on the Air France board as chairman, but then non-executive, i.e. more in a supervisory role. That's not very unusual. It happens more often in large international companies with a holding structure that the top man also sits on the board of large subsidiaries. I have no further idea. Does that mean anything to the company's balance sheet? I think this might have been a consideration for the top man to sit on KLM's board as well. However, it has now been decided that this will not happen. I'm actually establishing that. His approach was to maintain the balance in that respect. At the same time, the Netherlands has said: from a Dutch governance tradition, a two-tier board, a distinction between the board of directors and the supervisory board, we do not think that has any added value. Janaillac didn't decide to do that either, but it does mean that the seat previously occupied by Air France-KLM's CFO in KLM's board is still vacant. A decision will be taken on this later. Mr Hoogland has asked a question about cross-subsidisation. I think he means to ask: what happens if you disconnect the maintenance leg and the airline? Some of the resources generated by maintenance can also be used for investments in new appliances. As I said, I have not been able to see from the plan that parts are removed from KLM. The top man has even explicitly said that no jobs will disappear from Amsterdam. I do not therefore foresee that this relationship will turn into financing terms. The interesting thing about the ambition of the new top guy is that at the point of the maintenance company he thinks there's a lot more money to be made. If there's a chance, for both parts of the company, it needs to be grabbed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u64	I ask Members whether there is a need for a second deadline. I note that this is the case. I call Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u65	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a plan of action to safeguard KLM's national interests in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to use its voting rights as shareholder to prevent transfers from KLM parts to the Air France-KLM holding company,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities, including financial coverage, of how the Dutch State can take as much interest in the holding company Air France-KLM as the French State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Trust Together programme recently presented by Air France-KLM only reflects ambitions in general;]] [[calls on the government to identify the consequences of the development of the Trust Together programme for KLM, Schiphol, the Dutch economy and employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-358]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-359]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-360]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-361]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u66	For years, I have been taking the lead when I suspect that some strange things are going to happen to KLM in terms of employment and turnover; things that affect the whole country. I haven't always been taken seriously, but a lot of things have already come true. What I said about PostNL is happening now. Once again, I guarantee Members, also in relation to the voting opinions they will give: if there is ever a parliamentary inquiry and you have not covered yourself up, you simply have no right to speak. You should also try to avoid worse. You always have to act to avoid worse. That makes you a good MP, I think. You should not be party politics over the back of the KLM or the e.g. the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u67	Mr. Chairman. When it comes to employment, it is always the role of the Chamber to be very vigilant, especially when it comes to large numbers of employees, such as KLM and Schiphol. We do, too. I would like to thank the directors for their reply. Trust Together as it is now, with those four pages, does not immediately give the SP fraction the feeling that there are insane changes in the pipeline that will lead the company, and KLM in particular, to the abyss. As always, we will focus on developments at the holding company and at Schiphol Airport, but I can now live with the explanations given by the directors. I wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u68	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet said clearly: public interests are secured and we are in favour of that, but tough guarantees for a holding company in which we do not have a seat cannot be demanded of us. The cabinet is right about that. It can't be, as much as we'd like it to be. I have every confidence that, as in the previous meeting, the cabinet stands for that. We will continue to monitor the cabinet on this point, as we do, because it concerns all of us. I also welcome the answer from the Secretary of State. It clearly indicates that the new low-cost carrier is independent of Transavia's growth. Otherwise, in our view, it would have been a breach of the agreements, and we will continue to see whether these agreements will be secured, because that is in the national interest and that is what we stand for here. We have two hubs and they are both reinforced. That's Janaillac's statement, and we need to do it with it right now. We will continue to monitor very actively whether it will stay that way and we will continue to actively look for it. Finally, the remark that the enemy or opponent, as Janaillac clearly said, is not in Amsterdam or in Paris. That's the way it is here in the Chamber. Sometimes, when you see this debate, it seems like we're getting a little pissed at each other here, but when you listen, we all find the same thing. Every bird of course sings as it is beaked and we should give each other the space to do so, but if you look at the content, I see the same unity as there was in the KLM debate two weeks ago. We all think that the cabinet should do the same where it can do something for the good. Everyone says that in their own way. In that sense, I think it is right that we should do what a well-known apostle once wrote to the inhabitants of Rome: be united among one another. That seems very important to me on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u69	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the cabinet for the answer. It is clear that Air France-KLM still has a long way to go. D66 sincerely hopes that Trust Together will contribute to this. It also sounds almost like the title of a beautiful song. Of course, the best way to help KLM is for people to fly with KLM in complete freedom, but we do not determine that from the Chamber. It also applies not only because it is a very sustainable society. In this debate I would like to do something additional in my second term. My question is whether the government is setting an example here. Is as much as possible being flown with KLM by ministers and officials? And what about the Royal House, when members of it take a line flight, as happened recently before the state visit to Australia? Then it became clear that there was no flight with KLM. I wonder if the cabinet can give that to you orally. Otherwise, a written reply may also be given. Once again, we help KLM best by flying with KLM as a government, provided that that is a reasonable option.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Elias does not need a second term, nor does Mr Hoogland. Then I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for her second answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u71	Mr. Chairman. I think it would be a good thing if I at least responded to the motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It invites the government to come up with a plan of action. I must advise against this motion, because my starting point is that the interests are protected and the agreements are in place. Air France-KLM must draw up a plan and not the Dutch government. For the rest, securing our public interests is a matter of frappez toujours. We have to stay at the ball from the government if that's what it takes. Mr Graus knows that he can count on us to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u72	In fact, I did not want to mention companies in connection with this motion, but I would like to mention one example, namely that of Mr Van der Leegte, of whom I am a big fan. He is one of the best entrepreneurs in our country and has saved the Nedcar factory in Born, with thousands of jobs. He's about to double them. I think thousands more people are gonna work. That man has already indicated that he wants to help the KLM. He would very much like to talk to the government about this, he would very much like to talk to KLM, but then the headlines will have to come together. The government has an important role to play in this, as shepherd of the sheep. I'm just saying that. There are opportunities, including with the Dutch business community and with a little money from the government, because that's fine. Let's face it, if things go wrong with the KLM right away, it's gonna cost even more than if you take an extra share right away. Mark my words, or it's gonna go all wrong, and what's Schiphol going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u73	The problem with Mr Graus's explanation of his motion is that he simply 'dissuade' my opinion. If we're going to bring in business... again, we're not the holding company. We must pay attention to public interests, and so do we. That's our job. The Chamber can always address us to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u74	Very briefly, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u75	That is why I have clearly included 'national interests'. That's all I care about. So it's a very clear motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u76	Yes, but again, my plan of action here is "frappez toujours," as I just said with a wink. As a government, we ensure that we are constantly alert and that we remain on the ball. That is what is at issue when it comes to public interests. We act if necessary, but we do not have to make a plan for this. We just need to be careful and say flatly do our thing if that's necessary. Then the Chamber will have to pay us back; are we doing it right? In the motion in part No. 361 we are asked to identify the consequences of the programme's development. I would also advise against this motion. Air France-KLM will work out the plan. We'll follow that. If it is fully worked out and if that could have consequences for the Netherlands, we will of course send the Chamber an appreciation. That's a policy that's still standing. We do, but that's not the issue right now. That's why I'd like to discourage that motion. Finally, I come to Mrs Belhaj's question. I'm not about individual travel from the Royal House. I assume you will excuse me if I do not go into this today, because I simply do not know the case. However, I know from experience that we always fly our own national airline wherever possible. I believe the same applies to the Royal House. Sometimes it doesn't work. This has to do with schedules or flights that do not arrive at a time when you have to be at the destination. That is also a question of logistics. The starting point is that we do it as much as possible, but not always. It also happens that it doesn't work for any reason. That's all I can say right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u77	Mr. Chairman. I will respond to Mr Graus's motions on documents. 359 and 360. In the motion in part No. 359 calls on the government to use its voting rights as shareholder to prevent the transfer of KLM parts to the Air France-KLM holding company. Firstly, I do not think that this is the case. Secondly, it would be an extremely weak strategy if we tried to stop this kind of strategic decision in Air France-KLM through our voting rights as a shareholder in KLM. As you know, we have only 6% of KLM in our hands. If this is the strategy with which Mr Graus sends us into the arena, if this is to be discussed in the future, then we are really in the lurch. So we're gonna have to do that smarter and sooner. So far, so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u78	I would ask the Minister not to provoke this and I would like to give Mr Graus the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u79	I'll give him the pleasure. Someday the time will come when I can laugh and I can faint. You will! I always count my blessings. I've been asking for a lot of years to increase the share. We have already had a discussion on this. Indeed, it is too little, I think it is 5.92%, but it is a government. The French are sensitive to diplomatic and political pressure. That is what I said in my speech two weeks ago. Get that out of the way! That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u80	We do, but Mr Graus should not blame me for taking him extremely seriously. The motion calls on the government to use its voting rights as a shareholder in order to prevent any negative decisions being taken by the Netherlands. I'm so sorry. Then I repeat what I just said. Taking 6% in KLM to stop a strategic choice in the holding company is just not going to work. That is an extremely serious reaction and not provocation. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 360 is asked the government to examine the possibilities, including coverage, how the Dutch State can take an equal interest in the holding company. We're not gonna do that right now. Given the problems that Air France and KLM currently have and the competition in which they are currently in, taking a greater interest, or even taking an interest at all, in the holding company, because we have no interest at all in solving the problems now. We therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-34.u81	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the Minister, the participants and the people who have been watching. The votes on the motions tabled will be taken next Tuesday. I'm suspending for dinner break.
