ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u1	I welcome the Minister and I am the first to give the floor to Mr Hoogland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u2	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to reading out two motions. The first one is about tunnel dosing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is uncertainty as to the effects of tunnel dosing on traffic flow;]] [[considers that tunnel dosing should not lead to additional travel time and traffic jams;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine further the impact of tunnel dosing on road safety and traffic flow within a six-month period and, during the investigation, to consider the further introduction of the tunnel dosing instrument;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of Justice of the results of the investigation so that it can be involved in a further introduction and review of the application of the instrument in the three existing tunnels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland and Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-485]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u3	And then I have another motion on how to deal with staged scooters. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a large proportion of the riding (snor) scooters in the Netherlands can drive faster than permitted by law;]] [[Whereas members of the BOVAG trade association also facilitate these illegal practices;]] [[Considering that the BOVAG is a public partner in road traffic and road safety;]] [[Calls on the Government to encourage the BOVAG to pursue stronger policies towards its members on this issue, if the outcome remains to suspend consultations with this interbranch organisation by 1 September 2016, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the budget debate I and M 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-486]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u4	I spoke to BOVAG recently. He says we just need to keep it. I believe it's legal to drive 20 or 25 km/h. That's very soft for most scooters. It is very difficult to prevent them from being tougher by technical measures. That's why it's better just to be enforced by police officers or enforcers. In Amsterdam, only two officials appear to be involved in this. Would it not be better for Mr Hoogland to ensure that the government itself will carry out its own task and maintain it better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u5	That is, in itself, a justified point by Mr Madlener. I think it would be good if the Minister also responded to his recommendation to maintain more. I can only agree with that. The motion deals with only one of the instruments, namely appealing to the interbranch organisation to its responsibility to ensure that these practices do not take place among its members in any event. After all, she claims to represent anyone who sells moustaches or scooters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u6	Mr Madlener, one short sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u7	Mr Hoogland should therefore not address BOVAG. First let him start with the mayor of Amsterdam, for example. He's got a problem with the nuisance, but he's not gonna do anything about it. He's leaving it completely behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u8	I think both are useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u9	Speaking of mustache scooters, I come to the motion for a resolution from the Highlands. We have discussed this motion in detail in the AO. We said there that we should also talk to the stakeholders, such as BOVAG and RAI, because that is what the Hoogland motion says. At that time, the Minister indicated that this had been the case. Questioning shows, however, that they are not involved, BOVAG is not involved, RAI is not involved, and others are not involved. That's what they're saying. Does Mr Hoogland think that his own motion on the whiskers that the parties should be involved is well implemented now that it appears that they are not involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u10	Yes, I do. If there is an industry that I cannot imagine has any difficulty in gaining access to politics, then it is the automotive and scooter industry. BOVAG and RAI are known to have excellent entrances. They have also approached us all with their views. We therefore have no concern about the access of industry associations to politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u11	I have a brief addition. Okay, the access to politics is there, but getting access to a Labour Underground Party in Amsterdam with Mr Hoogland, as in this case, is something else. That is a completely different situation. They are neither involved nor involved in the execution of the motion. Do I understand why Mr Hoogland is saying that he is satisfied with the implementation of the motion when they are not involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u12	Mr Van Helvert's qualifications are so far from reality that I find it difficult to answer his question seriously. The task of the motion was to enable the moustache scooter to be moved in consultation with various associations, and that has also been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u13	Mr. Chairman. To my dismay I have read that the VVD believes that the peak lanes should be transformed into ordinary lanes. This is what we have been advocating for years. Unfortunately, the VVD has completely wiped out the infrastructure pot with the cuts, but I read now that the VVD wants to come back on this and transform the traffic lanes. I am pleased about that. I have therefore decided to retable my old motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas traffic jams are increasing rapidly again;]] [[Whereas full lanes are safer than peak lanes and better for flow;]] [[calls on the Government to re-establish peak lanes as a full lane and to upgrade as many existing peak lanes as possible to full lanes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-487]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u14	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ulenbelt replaced me in the general discussion, because I was at the climate summit. That's how it goes. So I have no motion either, just a comment. Mrs Visser will table a motion co-signed by the SP. This one's about Riding School Chooser. My colleague, Mr Bashir, has already tabled a motion on this matter. We find it rather strange that the government is subsidising a driving school comparison site for a lot of money, while there are also market players who can do this very well. In general consultation there has been a good debate on the moustache scooters. The SP does not want to lie down before the municipality of Amsterdam's wish to tackle the moustache nuisance and perhaps move the moustache scooters to the lane. However, we only want this when it can be done safely. The SP is not yet convinced that this can be done safely on all roads where other traffic runs much faster. We would like to hear from the Minister in which scenarios this is possible. For example, you can also turn the moustache scooters into moped scooters. Then you hit two birds with one stone. I assume that this has been discussed in the AO for a long time, so I am not going to repeat it. That also makes a stupid impression, because I did not speak there myself. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u15	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am tabling a motion to respond to the SP's question. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister intends to amend the Regulation on traffic rules and roadsigns in order to allow road managers to move the whiskers to the lane with a helmet duty;]] [[noting that at the time the moped was moved to the lane only after extensive research;]] [[Whereas the impact of such a change on the road safety of the mustache cyclist is unclear;]] [[calls on the Minister to carry out an investigation into the road safety risks for moustache cyclists on the track with a maximum speed of 50 km/h;]] [[further requests the Government not to anticipate the proposed amendment to the RVV until after the results of the investigation have been discussed with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the Netherlands Institute for Physical Safety showed that 60% of all drivers of priority vehicles, such as ambulances, reported having had an accident or near-accident;]] [[noting that drivers of priority vehicles indicate that in Germany drivers know better what to do with approaching priority vehicles;]] [[noting that the content of theoretical lessons in the Netherlands is based on the Traffic Rules and Roadsigns Regulation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to promote the clear diversion of motorists to passing priority vehicles, e.g. by adapting Article 50 of the Regulation on traffic rules and roadsigns,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-488]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Helvert and Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-489]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u16	Then I have a comment about the N59. Earlier we talked to the Minister about safety on this road. This road runs between Goeree-Overflakkee and Schouwen-Duiveland. The N59 between Den Bommel and Hellegatsplein is known as a busy and dangerous two-lane road, where accidents often occur. The Minister announced in May that measures are being taken to improve safety at the N59 at Den Bommel. However, these measures will not be completed until 2020. Last December, just before New Year's Eve, there was another fatal accident. That hit residents spicy. The faults on the Botlek Bridge also mean that trucks with dangerous substances have to drive through the N57 and the N59. The CDA would like to see the deadlock broken. Does the Minister intend to sit down with all the parties to ensure speedy and decisive road safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u17	I see that Mr Madlener has a question. You may, but please keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u18	The N57 is indeed an important road in that area. Does Mr Van Helvert also think that the number of lanes in the N57 should be doubled for safety, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u19	That's pretty quick. Perhaps it is the solution, but my question to the Minister is first whether she can sit down with parties to see how we can deal with it in the N57 and N59. If it shows that this is one of the solutions, we can certainly talk about it. However, that is not yet known. That's why we're first asking the Minister to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u20	Mr. Chairman. I shall table two motions after Mr Hoogland has already tabled a motion on my behalf. My first topic is the driving school business. I have a question first. More than six months ago, as a Chamber, we asked questions about the amendments to the Motor Vehicle Training Act. This is intended to train driving instructors better and also to carry out the retests better. So far we have not received any answers to these questions. If we want to clarify the quality of the driving school industry, it is also about the driving instructor and how well trained it is. After that, however, you finally start taking driving lessons and then you have to be able to compare the different driving schools. On this point, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the quality of driving schools and driving instructors should be objective;]] [[noting that TeamAlert receives more than €200,000 funding for a simple comparison website for driving schools, which does not function to the satisfaction of industry and users;]] [[Whereas subsidies should be careful and meaningful, without undue market disruption;]] [[Whereas several market players are now able to establish an independent comparison site for driving schools without public subsidies;]] [[Invites the Government, in accordance with the principles of the Market and Government Act, to reduce the subsidy to TeamAlert for the Driver's School Chooser and to promote a level playing field for driving schools comparison, including by equalising the information position for all parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Visser and Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-490]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u21	I come now to a popular subject: the scooters. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a relatively small group of people with staged moustaches still cause a lot of nuisance and insecurity on bicycle paths;]] [[Whereas the current possibilities for enforcement appear not to be sufficiently dissuasive;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of extending the current enforcement possibilities, such as speeding up the recovery of the driving and registration documents and the immediate seizure of the vehicle for, for example, 30 days,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-491]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u22	I have a short question. Yesterday we received written answers to questions about the Botlegbrug. In that answer, we have read that there are now several investigations in progress. However, there was no commitment from the Minister that we should be informed as Chambers. In view of the problem, my question to the Minister is whether she will promise to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u23	Mr. Chairman. Because road safety is important, it is also important to have some insight into it. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas to date we do not have a clear view of the most common causes of road accidents;]] [[Whereas, to date, we do not have a clear view of locations where most road accidents occur;]] [[calls on the Government to pursue the development of the widest possible specification of road accidents, taking into account at least the most common causes of road accidents and the sites with the highest number of accidents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Houwers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-492]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u24	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the motions tabled by Mr Hoogland. The first is the motion Hoogland/Visser, which is about tunnel dosing. I see the motion as a policy support. In response to written questions, I promised the Chamber that I would conduct an investigation into the instrument of tunnel dosing. At present it is used in four tunnels and not in three tunnels, as the motion states: the Roertunnel, the Coentunnel, the Leidsche Rijntunnel and the newly opened Ketheltunnel. The next tunnel where introduction of this instrument is provided is the King Willem-Alexander tunnel in Maastricht. With this tunnel, the instrument of tunnel dosing is necessary from a safety point of view. It is therefore not a matter of a super-statutory provision. The opening of that tunnel is foreseen for the end of 2016. The authors of the motion ask me to take the next six months a little more time, but of course this will be taken into account in the security process. In any case, I will ensure that the Court is informed of the results of the investigation before opening up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u25	When we submitted written questions on this subject, it was indeed three more tunnels. Fortunately, the Kethel tunnel is now open; I think a lot of motorists are happy about that too. The motion not only calls for a pass to be made, but also calls for a review for those three tunnels if research shows that it is possible. I do not think that is a policy of standing. The Minister stated in her reply that it was necessary for tunnel safety. That raises questions for me. In my opinion, tunnel dosing is never a leading tool for tunnel safety, but new tunnels simply have to meet the standard requirements for tunnel safety. How does the Minister reconcile the additional use of this instrument with the opening of new tunnels?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u26	One of the elements is that municipalities must authorise the opening of a tunnel. They often do so from their own assessment of the extent to which it is possible for aid troops to safely help in the tunnel if something were going on there, for example an accident causing fire. People always find that quite exciting. It's easier for helpers to help out of a tunnel than before. That is one of the reasons why it has been decided in the past to introduce tunnel dosage. If we expect a traffic congestion in the tunnel with a greater risk of accidents, we will shift the traffic congestion from the tunnel to the tunnel. That's the tunnel dosing system. So it's not an extra file. The system prevents a traffic jam in the tunnel itself and places it in front of it. The authors of the motion ask me to examine whether it is effective and efficient and whether it can be shaped in another way. I have indicated that I want to do the same, but that at least one tunnel dose is still on the way. It is therefore complex to make a pass on the spot, because all systems are connected with it. We do not want to see any delay in opening up the tunnels. I will at least inform the Chamber of that investigation prior to delivery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u27	Only the author of the motion may put a question, Mr Madlener. What's your verdict, Minister? Policy support?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u28	As I said, I'd like to investigate. Of course, there is also a lot to talk about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u29	Good. Judgement room, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u30	I think that's called "supporting policy." In Mr Hoogland's next motion I am asked to urge the BOVAG to address its members on the illegal increase of moustaches. I also responded to this in the AO. The BOVAG has the "Take it back!"-campaign, calling on members not to participate in the performance of moustache scooters. The problem is a bit that the majority is not performed in the shop, but then by the owners of the moustache bike itself. I believe that this call should apply not only to BOVAG members, but to all sellers and owners of whiskers who are caught with it. It's a little strange to pretend that only BOVAG members are involved. So I do not think it is proportionate and effective to stop talking to BOVAG on this subject. In that sense, I advise against the motion. However, I would like to assure Mr Hoogland that I will once again talk to the BOVAG to point out to the industry how important it is to achieve this. I will also speak to other parties that respect this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u31	The minister says it's a broader problem. I think she has a point there. I think it's good to have a little thought, too. That's why I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u32	At the request of Mr Hoogland, I propose his motion (29398, No. 486). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u33	In between, the PVV spokesperson asked a question about the PvdA about enforcement in Amsterdam. The spokesperson of the PvdA then said that the Minister was going to answer that question. So let me do that. The question was about deployment and capacity. I also said during the AO that a lot of the capacity and the hours available goes to maintaining moustache scooters. Although this is only a limited number of FTEs, I believe that it is about a quarter of the number of hours available in the centre for enforcement in traffic. That's what I said last time. So it is much more a question of how much enforcement capacity is at all in Amsterdam. However, the use of capacity is also being made of this. I understand from the city of Amsterdam that 60% of moustache bikes are sanctioned every year. That doesn't help to reduce the crowds on the bike path, because you take them off and you remove the speed increaser from the moustache bike, but a day later you come across them again at the same high speed. That just makes it very complex. I come to the motion of the PVV in part No. 487. It's about the peaks. We've talked about that before. At that time, I said that I also find it an attractive idea that peak lanes should eventually become lanes. It promotes speed and flow. However, it is not just possible for rush lanes to become lanes. That costs money, and it also requires a route decision. That is why I have in the past advised against this in the form in which this was submitted by the PVV. So I'll do this again now. After all, the motion calls for new peaks to be built as full lanes and for as many existing peaks as possible to be upgraded to full lanes. There's just a budget to that, too. So I'm willing to investigate this. Other parties in the Chamber also call on me to investigate what is possible in this area. Without the resources, however, I cannot do so at the moment. If I did this, that would mean I couldn't do anything else. We always discuss that with each other in a MIRT debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u34	The Minister's party, of course, has made a huge selection of the Infrastructure Fund. Her party is, of course, responsible for the fact that there is now no money available to improve infrastructure. However, I would like to ask the Minister the following. There are currently peaks in preparation. I know that a peak strip is actually a very expensive strip, because there have to be cameras, crosses and I don't know what's going on upstairs. Such a strip is not open all day. Is it not the case that the construction of a full strip is sometimes cheaper than the construction of a peak strip?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u35	I would like to say two things. First of all, I might have to respond to the PVV mantra about the big grip. The cabinet had to cut a total of about 5 billion. In the meantime, many new tasks have been added. This has been shared across all departments, and so has our department. This was necessary in order to reduce the large debt that we have, and for which we paid nearly 11 billion a year in interest rates. I spend about 11 billion on roads. So I am very happy if on the one hand we could turn in some money, but on the other hand we could have room for further investment in the future. Secondly, Mr Madlener talked about the peaks. The decisions on these peaks of the past are part of the ZSM programme. This was created when no major road tracks could be built. At the time, this had everything to do with the problem of nitrogen and particulate matter emissions. Then an NSL program was created to control that. At the time, it was also said that we might be able to do something about cutting-edges, but not yet with full-fledged tracks. That's how it came into being, and that's how it's going to happen. These peaks have also proved to be an effective means of dealing with traffic jams. However, for the future, I really choose robust links, new roads and new lanes. Mr Madlener knows that, because he has seen it in my programme. However, I do not think it is a good idea to stop the old routes now, so routes that have already been started and which are within the possibilities that there were then. If we wanted to turn it into something else now, it could lead to both delays and failure to solve the problems of capacity. Just go with me and with the VVD: let's make sure that we now study what we can do for the future in order to eventually turn traffic lanes that are there into lanes, so that we can turn them into fully-fledged lanes for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u36	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u37	I will reply to Mr Smaling's question, who was not present at the AA and therefore did not wish to table a motion at the VAO either. I think that's a very nice way. I don't see it that way. He asked me what other possibilities there are for moving the moustache bike safely to the lane. SWOV has done extensive research in the past and has shown all the possibilities and opportunities. SWOV has found that it is safe to wear a helmet. It is then a choice of the municipality whether it wants to move the moped or moped to the road. The municipality has said that it only wants to do so if a helmet is worn. That's why we're having a discussion about the helmet right now, but there's no new information. Mr Smaling asked about scenarios such as omcats and so on, but there is no new information on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u38	Mr. Smaling, can I have a quick word?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u39	I'll be very brief. Can I conclude that the Minister considers that the investigations carried out by SWOV provide sufficient basis to do so, so to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u40	We've been talking about this for a few years. I proposed a few years ago to make an exception for municipalities, so that they can choose to set up a helmet obligation when they move traffic from the bicycle path to the road, because they also guarantee safety. At that time, the Chamber said that you cannot do that. Then the Chamber said: we want to re-examine, you have to do it. Then I gave all sorts of information about the consequences. And now we are almost in a discussion again, because I see some parties tilting and also the SP is moving back and forth. The city of Amsterdam has specific problems. For me, that has been the reason to say: let us make it possible for this municipality to decide for itself whether to introduce such a helmet obligation if it wants to move traffic from the bike path to the lane. That is the proposal that I had originally tabled and which is now coming back to the Chamber's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u41	You may make one brief comment, Mr Smaling, because this is going to take a very long time. Let us not repeat the AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u42	I am only concerned about the scientific hardness of that research. Can the Minister say on this basis that it has been examined at such a level that she does not feel compelled to do more research?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u43	As a minister, I don't make that choice. A municipality decides whether or not to move that traffic. Municipalities ask the Empire: give us the opportunity to introduce a helmet duty. They do not have that option now, because that is a national competence. I have indicated that I do not intend to do so for the whole country. So it's not about a scientific investigation into danger. It is an assessment that they themselves make, and they say: based on SWOV data, we only want to move those people to the lane if they also wear a helmet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u44	The Minister will continue with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u45	The CDA Group has also tabled motions on moustache bikes. For example, the Van Helvert motion asks for item No. 488 to carry out an investigation into the road safety risks for moustaches on the road at a maximum speed of 50 km/h and not to anticipate the proposed amendment of the RVV until after the results of the investigation have been discussed with the Chamber. Here too, it is a bit of the same discussion. SWOV has conducted research on the basis of models and extrapolations. Of course, she cannot do research in real practical situations, because then you have to send someone without a helmet out into the street versus someone with a helmet and then see who is more at risk. We have recently seen with medicine research in France how dangerous it can be to test it on humans. This did not happen, but on the basis of its models and extrapolations, it concludes that the road safety effect is positive if a helmet is worn. She can refine that estimate, but she indicates that a practical test is the only way to determine the actual effects, that it is also justified when a helmet is worn and that making more estimates leads to a postponement of actual practical experiences, which you gain by doing it once in Amsterdam. It would be worth a lot to do it carefully, because if it is unsafe, Amsterdam will be the first to suffer a great deal. So I advise the motion to do an additional investigation into that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u46	It is also a question of the Hoogland motion at the time saying that it really should be in consultation with partners, such as the BOVAG, the RAI and the ANWB. In the AA, I had asked the Minister about this. She indicated that they were involved, but they really indicated not to be involved in this particular case in order to make it possible for Amsterdam. At that point in time, I actually think that the motion was not properly carried out. That is a very important point for us. Hence this motion. From that point of view, perhaps the Minister should reconsider it. How does she feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u47	The information I've always been given is that they've been involved. On that basis, I said so. After Mr Van Helvert said that, I quickly asked: what is the situation? The RAI understands that at least they've been spoken to. I do not know who Mr Van Helvert has spoken, but I do not have the BOVAG and such on the line. Once again, we sit at the table with them so often that we are actually discussing everything with them and I cannot imagine that this has not been the case. If we have not raised it, they were on our doorstep to bring it in. So I can't do much with that. Nor can I say that I am not, but at least the RAI welcomes us in this debate, which has been spoken to them. Mr Van Helvert has tabled a motion on the ambulances. He's worried, because people emigrate to ambulances in different ways. He has also expressed this concern in the AO and he wonders whether, for example, in the amendment of Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, we can give a clear indication of traffic rules and road signs. In my collection letter for the AO I have already indicated that it is not a good route for the Dutch situation, unlike in Germany, to record that specifically. In our traffic you sometimes have to turn to the left and sometimes to the right. That depends entirely on the situation. There's no way to prescribe a priority route. I already indicated that at the time, and I still support it. I therefore advise against this motion. Of course, the lessons focus on getting to know ambulances in time, perhaps in the future with all the modern technologies that we also see coming from far away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u48	The situation in Germany is the same. There you also have all different situations where it is not clear whether you should go left or right. If the Minister does not want to do so by means of the Rules of Procedure, it would be fine if we were to look in a clear way at which direction we are going on which road we are going. If this is possible in Germany, if the staff indicate that this is perceived as pleasant and sees the problems here, I wonder why the Minister does not want to look at this. That is the only thing this motion calls for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u49	I indicated in the AO that there is probably no clear way. It is often a matter of common sense whether you go left or right, whether you put the car in the grass or on the sidewalk or do it in another way. This awakens the illusion that you could send in. What I think is important is that you raise above all in the sense that you say you have to make a job when an ambulance comes and see what a sensible place to do it. I have no objection to looking again at what exactly is going on with these lessons and whether sufficient attention is being paid to them. However, I don't feel that much about prescribing a clear way, while the diversity of the places and approaches of the ambulances from where they come from, the angle, right, left can't really lead to a clear solution. So I'm sticking to my negative advice. Mr Van Helvert also asked if I could hurry with other parties to address the road safety of the N59. It is, of course, always regrettable that accidents occur, especially fatal accidents. We have agreed to work on the N59, but that is not until 2020. I will work with the other parties to arrive at a robust approach, if there are any ideas about it in the meantime. However, I cannot so much draw this trajectory forward now, because there are more. People also know the discussions about the A67 and there are many more places we would like to address, but we just can't do it all at the same time. If there's any simple and little things we can do, I'm always open to it. At least we're working on it. The spokeswoman of the VVD asked about the driving school industry and said that I did not answer any questions. That wouldn't be neat, so I'll try to moustache them up and answer them as soon as possible. One has also been asked about TeamAlert's comparison site. Mrs Visser and Mr Smaling have tabled a joint motion on this subject, which is an interesting combination. In this motion in part No. 490 is asked to reduce the subsidy at TeamAlert for the Rijschoolschoezer. This was once created at the wishes of the industry. Together with the industry, we have developed a Driving School Chooser. The website works well and the industry is also pleased with the independent website. Since early November, December, the system has also been closed. This means that you can only submit reviews if you have actually applied for an exam. This is to prevent me from giving my cousin's driver a positive advice tomorrow. The CBR therefore provides a unique link and such. That unique and independent position of TeamAlert with that Rijschoolchooser is of great importance to me. So I think it is very important that this is how it was created and developed. However, the question is whether there is a position for other market players in this area. I can also imagine, but I do not really want what we have created to be destroyed. I see the motion as a policy support, if I may read it in such a way that I am examining how we are going to reduce that subsidy in a careful manner while preserving its merits. The system simply works well, reliably and is solid. The question is, however, whether we should only subsidise this party, all the parties or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u50	You will not hear from the VVD a call for more subsidy for everyone, just if the market itself could do it. In addition to the first question, these are not written questions but the legislative proposal to improve the quality of the driving school industry. We are concerned that there is a level playing field and an equal information position for all. If the Minister brings along the dismantling of TeamAlert but also the building of an equal information position for everyone, you have a level playing field for all providers and market players can also simply offer a good product. I hear the Minister saying that the product is good, but I get a lot of signals from the industry that it is very easy to hack and that the quality is still insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u51	I just need time. We put this away from someone else. A system has been created there, and we are satisfied with that. The closedness of the system indicates that it is difficult to hack and influence. The question is, however, whether the government should keep that alive or whether this is a task for the market. It wasn't there, so we chose to realize that. Moreover, there are quite a few parties in this market that do not deliver the quality we want. So I need a little time to figure out how to cut that down and how to create space for others. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if at some point I could come back to the Chamber and tell you how I want to realize it. Mrs Visser has tabled a motion on enforcement. In this motion in part No. 491 calls on the Government to examine the possibility of extending the current enforcement possibilities for snorcooters, such as speeding up the recovery of the driving and registration documents and a direct seizure of the vehicle for, for example, 30 days. The Minister of V and J has already studied in detail over the past year whether sanctions can be extended. This is how maintenance with laser gun has been made possible. I will ask my colleague from V and J to see what else is possible. I don't want to accept a motion on his behalf right now. I ask the petitioner to hold the motion, then I will ask my colleague from V and J to map it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u52	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u53	At the request of Mrs Visser, I propose her motion (29398, No. 491) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u54	Mrs Visser asked a question about the progress of the Botlek. Of course I'll inform the Chamber about that. The completion has been delayed, but I will inform the House of this by the end of February at the latest. Finally, there is the motion in part No. 492 by Mr Houwers, who asks for an overview of the causes of road accidents, traffic locations and specification of road accidents. Mr Houwers is actually asking for a combination of causes and locations. As far as I am concerned, a comprehensive specification does not really provide a handle for new, effective and feasible measures needed to improve our road safety. I tried to explain in the AO that we're going to look at much more risk locations. We look not so much at where it often occurs, but at what are risky matters. We have an annual list of locations where road accidents occur, but the scenarios actually change every year. Sometimes it's alcohol and sometimes there's something completely different in play. I advise against this motion. I would really like to introduce the method I indicated last time: to look much more at specific risks and from there to try to improve safety much further. We have sent very much to locations and specific types of accidents, and now, as far as I am concerned, it is time to implement that risk approach. So I advise against this motion. I think I have answered all the questions and dealt with all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-25.u55	The votes on the motions will be taken next Tuesday. I would like to thank colleagues and the Minister.
