ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u1	I ask all of you to stand up. On 16 May last, Aar de Goede, former senator for D66, died at the age of 87. He was only a member of the First Chamber for one year: from June 1986 to June 1987. But as Secretary of State, Member of Parliament, MEP and as one of the founding fathers of D66, he has had an unmistakable influence on Dutch politics. Arie de Goede, nicknamed Aar, was born in Vlaardingen on 21 May 1928. His father owned a grocery store. After the secondary trade school, Mr De Goede started his working life as an official of the Rijkstaxdienst in Schiedam at the age of 19. He also took a three-year course in tax law. After that, he worked as an assistant accountant and deputy secretary at an economic and legal consultancy firm. From 1956 to 1967, Mr De Goede worked as an administrator of accounting and budgetary matters at Reactor Centrum Nederland, a foundation whose aim was to gain knowledge of the peaceful application of nuclear energy. The subject of nuclear energy sparked the political fire on Mr De Goede and would have his special attention for the rest of his political career. That career began in 1967, when he was appointed as a Member of Parliament in the very first group of D'66. His appointment was not self-evident at the time, but proved to be a good grip. De Goede developed into a competent financial and economic spokesman, who consistently felt ministers. Among other things, he followed the then Minister De Block of Economic Affairs to the scenes about his VAT and wage and price policy. Mr De Goede, as a Member of Parliament, also dealt with Kingdom matters and was chairman of the Permanent Committee for Nuclear Energy. As vice-president of the group, De Goede also contributed to the political development of the still young D'66. Among other things, his input on cruise missiles and cooperation with other parties were decisive for the direction and foundations of the party. In the early 1970s, De Goede was appointed by the Volkskrant twice as parliamentarians of the year. In 1973 he left the green benches and was appointed Secretary of State for Finance in the Den Uyl cabinet. In this capacity, he was responsible, among other things, for the finances of local authorities and budgetary matters. In 1976 Mr De Goede introduced an amendment to the Compatibility Act, which required the General Court to focus more on investigations for the benefit of the States General and to present his annual report to both the States General and the Crown. Two years after the fall of the Den Uyl cabinet, Mr De Goede was appointed Member of the European Parliament. Here too he was a man of the first hour: in the European Parliament he was the first list leader for D66 ever. And here too, Mr De Goede showed himself to be a competent parliamentarians with strong verbal capacities. In 1986 Mr De Goede was sworn in as a member of the First Chamber and for the third time he was given the opportunity to show these abilities. In his maiden speech on the Tax Plan, he complained about the decreased oil prices and natural gas benefits and objected to the extension of the temporary measure to increase VAT rates. As in the House of Representatives, Mr De Goede also supported the multiannual planning and budget in this house. Mr De Goede was known as a modest and reliable man. Someone who didn't put himself in the front row, but who didn't put himself in the last. His independent and thoughtful character made him loved by many and respected by all. Mr De Goede was Knight of the Order of the Dutch Lion and bearer of the Grand Cross in the Ere-Orde of the Palm of Suriname. May our respect for his person and his merits for our parliamentary democracy be to support his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
