ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr Özturk, you ask if you have three minutes, but you have two minutes, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Since DENK doesn't believe everything in the paper, it's good that I can now question this minister personally. People in illegal Israeli Settlements have wrongly received too much AOW for years. Is it true that the government has acted against the law for at least ten years by not reducing the AOW of Israeli settlers? If so, does the Minister understand how people feel that older people in all other countries are being harassed by the SVB, that money is being taken from them and that people in Morocco have to hand in money? Can the Minister understand how unjust people feel about this? Can he understand that this happens to people as if double standards are applied? Is the Minister prepared to recover the unjustly overpaid money?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. I was confronted with this file at the beginning of 2014. At that time, it had been found by the Social Insurance Bank that 28 people in the implementation practice had been wrongly presumed to live in Israel while actually living in the occupied territories. In 20 people, this was recognized. Eleven of the people who had not been recognised as living in these occupied territories should then have a reduction in the AOW. Of those eleven, seven war victims, survivors of the concentration camps. I was and I believe that it is important to look at transitional law for people who are suddenly threatened with a serious decline in income due to an error in the recognition of their place of residence. That's what happened. On the basis of the SVB's policy rules, a delay was first granted. Subsequently, in July 2014, on the basis of the transitional law in the Whek (Law on Export Control of Family Allowances), it was established that new cases, for people who would settle in those areas, are governed by the ordinary rules of the Law on Export Benefits. As there is no convention for these areas, 50% WML (minimum wage and minimum holiday allowance) is paid to single people instead of 70%. However, the people who had previously faced these supposed facts would retain their old rights. In 2015, this was reported to the Chamber on the basis of a new case, where I also found that the transitional arrangement was not published in time due to an error on our part. What does that mean for Western Sahara? It is good to note that more than 12,000 AOW beneficiaries lived in Morocco. There are two war victims there. I believe that those victims of war should also not be faced with discounts based on where they live. According to the information provided by the SVB, there are seven AOW beneficiaries in Western Sahara. In their case, no discounts were applied because the transitional right was granted before the BEU Act or because it concerned people who were married and who were already receiving 50% WML for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u4	For the war victims, both in the Israeli occupied territories and in the Sahara, we have every understanding. I think the whole Chamber can understand that. I don't think the discussion is about that either. It is a question of double standards and of the Minister to tackle people in Morocco harder and hire commercial companies to tackle the people in Turkey harder. The Minister already admits that he has been wrong in this matter. I have read that officials are more or less saying that they have been put under pressure. Is it true what they said to the newspaper? Have SVB officials been put under pressure? Is it true that lobbyists, colleagues and fellow party members have put pressure on you to instruct SVB officials internally, and I quote what they have said that they should not do anything in Israel? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u5	Firstly, I am grateful to Mr Öztürk for agreeing that war victims should not be faced with a discount in this way. That was my main guideline when I got this file on my desk and it still is. In seven of the 11 cases, people received benefits because they were victims of war, survivors of the concentration camps. On that basis, I acted as I did. Secondly, it is not right that we should reduce the AOW for people living in Morocco, as is claimed here and there. On the contrary, the AOW is an individual right that you take with you. In Contracting States, the supplement also applies to single people, i.e. in Morocco, Israel and anywhere else in the world. Thirdly, the question was whether pressure had been exerted. I don't know. As far as I am concerned, exactly as I explained and as Mr Öztürk agrees, I found eleven cases at my office of people who should actually be cut, although they had received a higher AOW for years due to a false assumption. Of the elf, there were seven war victims. I didn't think it was fair to cut it. I am pleased that Mr Öztürk agrees. Finally, the question was whether there were SVB officials who did not agree or who had them put it in the newspaper. I can't rule that out. There's more often a discussion about how to solve a particular problem. In this case, the implementation and policy rules of the SVB were used and the transitional right in the Whek was later used. That is the legal basis for this. I can't rule out any discussion of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr Öztürk, you can ask a follow-up question. I would ask you to do so through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u7	Through the chairman. The SVB officials are literally saying that they did not like anything in Israel and that that came from the ministerial summit. I just asked the minister if those officials would lie and he says he doesn't know. My question then is whether you are prepared to remove that ambiguity by conducting an external independent investigation, which will make it known what it was about. My second question is whether you are prepared to recover the money that has been paid too much wrongly. Are you also prepared to treat all people fairly and equally, including in Morocco and Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u8	Firstly, it is factually wrong that one should not be allowed to do so. Of the 48 cases of people living in the occupied territories, 20 were well aware of this and in four cases this led to a reduction. This alone shows that the SVB was allowed and did so. In 28 cases, however, it was not recognised. There is also an understanding of this. This is handicraft. Sometimes it depends on the street whether or not it belongs to the area for which the treaty applies. Secondly, the transitional law has ceased to apply since 1 January 2016. We've had a new case since then, of someone settling there. It's dealt with in accordance with the rules. That's the second element. Thirdly, I don't think it's fair. I thought we agreed to get the money back from this group of people. There is a right of transition. This also applies to Mexico, which would agree on a treaty and where people receive AOW on the basis of which to make agreements. There too, it has been decided not to recover that money, but to allow people to retain their right until there is a new situation. This is common practice in the transitional right at the AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u9	When it comes to Morocco and Turkey, the Minister is tough. He even dares to wipe out a 40-year-old treaty on Western Sahara. In Turkey, commercial companies are used to take away what they have spared from older people. The only thing people in the Netherlands are asking for is justice and equality. Treat all people, everyone, right now! Cut the double size! Make sure there's an external investigation, so there's clarity! Surely it cannot be that we have to read in the newspaper that SVB employees say that there was pressure, that guidance was given from the ministerial summit and that this has been going on for ten years? Surely it can't be that the Minister has been breaking a law for ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u10	First of all... The social security agreement with Morocco has not been terminated, but has been amended. Part of this adjustment is precisely that existing cases retain their rights. So that is much more like the situation we have just described than Mr Öztürk suggests. In new cases, the amended Convention will apply from October, on which both countries have agreed. We take into account the existing cases and even offer compensation for those who have not previously objected and appealed. New cases are governed by the new law. That's how you do it in practice. Second. Yes, I very much agree. A number of principles apply at the same time. The same treatment should be given to beneficiaries in equal cases. The same applies to AOW beneficiaries. That's what's gonna happen. Do you have to recover the money when someone at an old age, as a survivor of the horrors of the war, is confronted with an error that has not been recognised as falling under another regime? I didn't think so. I believe that Mr Öztürk does not agree either and that 148 of the 150 Members of Parliament do not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u11	The problem that is going on can be solved very easily, namely by not talking about occupied territories anymore, but about liberated areas. We are not talking about the Westbank, but about Judea and Samaria, with even since 2010 officially a capital: Ariel. That could be the lever to solve some of the problem in Israel. This issue can help with that. Why doesn't the government simply recognise Judea, Samaria and Eastern Jerusalem as a full part of Israel? This problem will then also be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u12	The government sees this differently and disagrees with the Israeli Government's current settlement policy. This should be seen separately from the individual position of AOW beneficiaries living in those areas. It is precisely because it was wrongly not recognised that they did not belong to the Convention Area to which the Treaty with Israel applies that, if it is adopted after years, you should consider whether there is a transitional arrangement. That's why I hit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr De Graaf, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u14	It's not surprising that I disagree with the Minister. Settlement policy and colonist politics can be found in Oosterwei in Gouda, the Schilderswijk in The Hague and in Kanaleneiland in Utrecht, but not in Judea and Samaria. It can be so easy. That issue has been dragging for so long. Make it easy for yourself as a government and I make a repeated appeal to the Minister of Foreign Affairs simply acknowledge these liberated areas, including Eastern Jerusalem, as an integral and full part of the State of Israel. That would send a clear signal to the Israeli community there, but also to the Jewish community here. Then we are off a big problem, including the smaller problem that is a big problem for some people individually, but that in the larger picture is a smaller problem of the AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u15	I disagree with Mr De Graaf. I do not think it is right to adopt that attitude towards Israel. I think it would be better if peace talks could resume there and a joint solution could be found. I believe that the Netherlands is right to maintain this line. I am only making a distinction here, and I think that this should be based on justice between the Dutch foreign policy towards Israel and the Middle East conflict as a whole and individual people who have been through a great deal and are in that situation, and it has not been recognised that they live in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u16	I would like to put my questions to Mr Öztürk, because he says he does not want to rely on what is in the newspaper and wants to hear the Minister's truth personally. Then the Minister tells us what is going on and Mr Öztürk falls back on what is in the newspaper and holds on to it. That's a bit of a strange thing to do. In addition, Mr Öztürk says that he does not wish to contest the benefits to victims of war and victims of war. But why, a year ago, did he vote against the motion asking the government to settle for war crimes? However, I cannot ask him those questions. So I ask another question to the Minister. Suppose the suggestion is taken up to recover those amounts from the war victims, are they not immediately compensated by a benefit through the Civil War Victims' Benefits Act 1940-1945?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u17	Before I give the floor to the Minister, Mr Kuzu wishes to respond. I assume it's a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u18	Yeah, it's a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u19	So don't argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u20	It is, of course, very sad that Mr Bishop of the SGP needs such reasoning in order to make his point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u21	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr Bishop is right in saying that in cases where the law on the victims and victims of war was concerned, income compensation would probably have been possible, despite the fact that this would have caused a lot of stress, red tape and hassle for those concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u23	This is clear and clear. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u24	Over the last ten years, all the Ministers for Social Affairs have dealt with this issue. The NRC writes that this minister personally ensured that the SVB does not comply with the law. My question to the Minister is whether the Social Insurance Bank has been put under pressure by the Minister himself or by people from the Ministry. Yes or no? If so, what pressure was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u25	On the basis of the law itself, the SVB has made implementing rules. This can be used if a person's benefit is to be reduced by errors. On the basis of that policy rule, therefore, a postponement could be granted. This was done in February 2014. In July 2014, the transitional rule was formulated on the basis of Article 62 of the Whek, which deals with exports of family allowances, among other things, but also contains a provision on the AOW. This means that the SVB acted on the basis of legal bases and the law. This also means that there has been no violation of the law. This should be possible within the remit of the SVB. Was there pressure for that? I gave the SVB that order by letter in July 2014. This legal solution was found in good consultation with the SVB. In the traffic between SZW and SVB, I was asked to consider how a transitional arrangement could be made for the case in which you would have to shorten eleven people, seven of whom were affected by war. That transitional arrangement has been found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u26	The Minister's story and answer leaves many questions open about equal treatment, for example of AOWs who have been cut short in countries with which we do not have a treaty, and also about communication to the Chamber, because is all the information shared with us? That is what we are going to discuss at length when Mr Ulenbelt's request for a debate. Now I have one question: does the Minister say here today that in this whole process of implementing and enforcing the law, at no time has there been any violation of the laws and regulations in force?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u27	On the first point, mistakes can be made elsewhere, in a country or territory that is not covered by a treaty. If mistakes are made, you will then have to look at how you deal with them from the implementation practice. In principle, the rules of the BEU Act apply. If they are properly applied, the problem does not arise. That's true all over the world. On the second point: the Court was, of course, informed extensively in May 2015 and in December 2015, both on the transitional rule and on the legal provision to be made with regard to war victims. I've just forgotten what the third question was. Oh, yeah. Haven't you ever made a mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u28	No, the question was whether the Minister could guarantee that at no time in this process, both in the implementation of the law and in the enforcement of any infringements, there was a breach of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u29	The legislation would imply that you recognise whether or not someone lives in a Convention Area. If this is not recognised, then a mistake has been made and the law cannot be correctly applied. Whether this is due to the right holders or to the execution organisation is verse two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u30	My question was another: can the Minister guarantee that the law has always been complied with? The Minister gives an interesting answer, but that is the answer to another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u31	As far as I am aware, there has been action on the basis of the BEU Act, but that law has not been correctly applied because it has not been recognised in all cases where one lived. I'll say it again. There were 48 people living in occupied territory. In 20 cases, this has been recognised in 4 cases, and in 28 cases this has not been recognised. This was recognised by the SVB at the end of 2013. Enforcement began at that time. At the beginning of 2014 that was on my desk. I was faced with the question: how do I deal with these cases? At that time I asked SVB to apply transitional rights and to postpone them. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u32	Can the Minister assure me that in recent years, but also at present, people in the same situation are treated exactly the same? I am referring to the principle of equality of law. This is not a question of whether the law has been complied with exactly, as Mr Van Weyenberg asked. That's very relevant. I still don't understand the answer to that either. My question, however, is: are equal cases treated equally, both in Western Sahara, for example, and in Israel's illegally occupied territories?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u33	Sure. That was not the case, because those 28 people were treated differently than those 20 people, because those 28 people had not been recognised as living in occupied territory. Since 1 January 2016, and therefore it is also important that there is a new case, all these people are treated in accordance with the BEU Act. The transitional right protects, as in Mexico, the existing cases. So unless there is a change, they remain under the old rules. From 1 January 2016 onwards, I am pleased that we have not only settled the problems of war, but have also put an end to the confusing situation for people in occupied territory: equal treatment for equal cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u34	Can the Minister also confirm that, with regard to transitional law, similar cases are treated equally, both in Western Sahara and in Israel's illegally occupied territories?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u35	I indicated in May 2015 that I did not know any examples from Western Sahara where people lived. I also indicated in May 2015 that, if those cases were to appear, I would treat them equally. There is no question of that so far. It is also about smaller numbers: at the time, if I am correct, there were eight AOW beneficiaries and now seven, because someone died. Some of these seven were covered by the old transitional law of the BEU Act and some did not claim the single payment because they were married. The comparison therefore does not apply, because it is not wrong to assume that they lived in the uncontested part of Morocco. As far as the persons in occupied territories are concerned, it has been decided, as Mr Grashoff rightly says, to treat the same cases equally in the transitional legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u36	In the transitional provisions is the crux of this whole story. Is it true that the Minister saw that transitional arrangement in 2014 but deliberately chose not to publish it in the Staatscourant until it was confirmed in the Lower House that there was one individual case, on which a motion was tabled in the Chamber, as Mr Bisschop indicated? So the essential question is: is it true that the Minister had the transitional arrangements in his drawer, which had seen and deliberately chose not to publish them in the Official Journal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u37	No. That's because of a mistake. There was a staff change at SZW, so that the scheme was not published in time and could not enter into force until 1 January 2016 instead of 1 January 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u38	This is what this is about. The Minister acknowledges that a mistake has been made in the administration he is responsible for. In my view, this means one thing, namely that we will have to have a further debate on this later on, and Mr Ulenbelt has already requested a debate on the question of confidence. A mistake has been made, and this is the question of trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u39	I don't think that's a question for me. That is Mr Kuzu's view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u40	No, Mr Kuzu, you are not allowed anymore. Soon, in the arrangement of work, you will be able to express your opinion on that. You can also make your position known when that debate comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u41	I also have a bit of a problem with Mr Öztürk's question. He said that the same, similar situations should be treated equally. But in the debate on labelling, we did not get any support for this when it came to the Western Sahara. Apart from that, I have another question for the Minister. With regard to the reduction in the AOW benefits of the people living in the disputed areas of Samaria and Judea, can the arrangements and the monitoring criterion with Israel be maintained for the C-areas, which were originally governed by the Oslo agreements? So there is just direct supervision of Israel. I also understand that most AOWs, or almost all AOWs, live in the C area and are therefore under direct control of Israel. Then why should you have to cut it anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-5.u42	This underlines, in my view, how complex it is in the implementation practice the SVB is faced with. It is therefore not a reproach to the SVB to properly recognise where someone lives and how that should be understood in the light of our interpretation of international law. The Dutch Government has a different position to that of Mr Voordewind. We believe that the areas referred to here by Mr Voordewind are not covered by our treaty with Israel and that therefore the BEU Act should apply. But it has been the case that for 28 people it was assumed that they were covered by the treaty. They were thus treated in the same way as those who lived in the undisputed areas of Israel. I did not want to follow up on this situation with retroactive enforcement or with a reduction, which would have significant consequences and would also be affected by war. At that time, I was of the opinion that I very much hope, and also know, that Mr Voordewind supports that, that you should then consider what a decent transitional arrangement is, where, as of 1 January 2016, everyone is clear about how the rules work and how they are applied.
