ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u1	I welcome you all once again, especially those Members who are still here in the Chamber. The next item is the first term of office. I would suggest that we limit ourselves to three two-way interruptions for both of them. That makes it a little more manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u2	Would you like to see if it could be four or five interruptions, because it is a rather complicated subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u3	That's right. Let us do up to four interruptions, but that is really the maximum. After all, another debate is planned, and with that one would like to start at half past midnight, hence. I thank the Chamber for its generous understanding. I would now like to give the Secretary of State for Finance the opportunity to begin his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all the speakers for their contributions. I understand their concerns. We are having this debate because, after the abolition of the VAR, there has been obvious uncertainty, including among the real self-employed. The intention was, by removing the VAR, to prevent false self-employment. But if real self-employed people are affected by this, something that was not intended will happen. I always say, after health and love, work and income are the things you can lie awake to the most. Some speakers in the room, and certainly myself, have met people up close and also in the private sphere, both people who were not real entrepreneurs, and people who were worried about that work and income. Through the hotline and my intensive contact with all kinds of industries, large clients, and organizations for contractors, but also through a very readable and thorough piece of work by a few of the most prominent labour lawyers from the Netherlands, led by Professor Boot, we now know more. We know that mostzzp'ers are real self-employed and that they are also just at work. We also know that false self-employment, according to the definition we have before it, does exist, but, frankly, it may be slightly different from what we shared in the debates at the beginning. All external investigations show that false self-employment is still limited in scope, but it is wider than expected, is more upper than lower, at least it seems, and is also relatively high, I can say: somewhat to my surprise in semi-public sectors. That bogus self-employment will of course come to light. In this sense, the DBA's instruments are at work. However, this includes a very large "but." The DBA, due to the expiry of the VAR and the assessment of the employment relationship together with the clients and contractors, has revealed bottlenecks. These bottlenecks mean that real self-employed people are also affected. One of the bottlenecks that has emerged is the current conceptual framework. We use this concept framework when assessing the employment relationship. This works in court, but it is difficult to assess model agreements. Moreover, most of the model agreements are well-evaluable. Of the industry model agreements, 95% of applications come to a model agreement. This is not always the case in the first version, not always in the second version, but in the vast majority of cases this ultimately leads to a model agreement. So yes, it can actually work in the vast majority of cases, but it doesn't work everywhere. There are cases that are apparently so complicated that we do not come to a clear conclusion. That calls for an explanation. Professor Boot not only taught us that, but he also made suggestions for that. The fact that the concept framework in some cases led to too large a grey area and also to big questions became clear after the summer. After the summer, I concluded that the concept framework was not easy. To do justice to the speakers here: I was not the only one either, because in the debate at the end of September Mr Omtzigt mentioned exactly the two concepts involved. Through his own channels, he had also drawn that conclusion. The second bottleneck that emerged in this process was that the labour law frameworks around autonomy are no longer in line with social views; let us put it this way. I, and with me many speakers here, get people at the table who can explain in a very clear, eloquence, professional and credible way that they feel entrepreneurial because they recruit, advertise, invest in themselves, but are not seen as entrepreneurs under the law. That is, I dare say, not the Tax Office. It is because we had made these rules with each other. We hadn't seen those rules in a while. The VAR had stopped worrying about these rules for ten years, and the Tax Administration, in all honesty, had also stopped paying attention to them, because enforcement was extremely problematic. The renewed acquaintance with the labour law frameworks that we had has not been enjoyed by everyone. We have to do something with it, because you want a legislative framework that is accepted and supported, and it is not going to be in all sectors. I would also like to add that the idea of where the borders should be is still widely different in this Chamber, but I will come to that later. The third bottleneck that came to light, and I honestly didn't expect that either, was that clients were much more risky than they thought. The great caution of the clients is not observed everywhere in taxation. Sometimes it's the opposite. Then we try to look up the edges as much as possible, but here clients have clearly adopted a highly risk-averse attitude. Also in the observation of the Tax Administration and of the account teams who talk to the clients, it is possible that orders are no longer given tozzp'ers, whereas this could be done under labour law. Those are cases where we are very cautious. The VAR was a freak and it's gone. For many cases, the model agreements offer a solution, but clearly not sufficient. That means you have to fix emerging bottlenecks first. As these insights became increasingly clear, I put forward the second progress report for more than a month. I asked Professor Boot to come forward with his report much earlier and he has been kind enough to do so, while maintaining quality. We took in the lessons from the hotline and then we came to the conclusion that a pass is really needed at the place. That means: at least until 1-1-2018 no enforcement. I say to Mr Ziengs that the deadline can be extended. That also makes the letter clear if there is no clarity about the frameworks and if there is still no decision on how to make it. Of course, this should not be made clear on 21-12, but in the middle of the year, because there is also a need for certainty. During that period, no fines or post-taxes shall be imposed, even after that period. That is essentially the situation during the VAR, in the sense that it gives clarity not only to the clients, but also to the contractors. The VAR was asymmetric, but the non-maintainment is completely symmetrical. I did say that we deal with the most serious cases among the evildoers. These are all cases where I think we would all say in this Chamber, if we were presented with them, that there is no doubt about them, that they should be dealt with. The question, also from Mr Ziengs, is how we can make that message clear. If you turn away from the real bad guys who know damn well they're meant to be, how can you convey that you don't maintain? We can't do less than zero either, so we can only do that with clear communication. Earlier, a letter was sent to all half a million ex-VAR holders. I intend to do that again. The next time a batch of half a million letters can leave the door, which is somewhere in January, I intend to plan it in between. I also need to clarify matters for industry associations. That's where letters have to go as well, as to thezzp organizations. It's necessary. The message is a very clear one. I'll say it in Professor Boot's words: for a bit of a normal business that's his words, there's no enforcement, at least until 1-118, there's no fines and there's no post-tax. In this sense, it is the material situation of the VAR. Mrs Schouten asks if that is a solution. No, of course that's not a solution. The real solution is to use that time to recalibrate those criteria in two ways. We need to think about the border and we need to make it clearer and pointier. I believe that Professor Boot and his committee have made very clear recommendations for this, which I should like to return to in a moment. That is an excellent basis for further work to ensure that there is ultimately clarity in those cases. Again, in many cases, the system of model agreements leads to clarity. However, there are too many cases where this is not the case. That really needs to be done better, and we need to do so with a clearer framework. Mr Omtzig asked whether we should not legislate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u5	I think Mr Van Dijck would like to make another interruption on the previous point. I shall give him the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u6	I think it's such a sloppy solution, saying you're not gonna keep it. You're breaking the law, but obviously that's okay. After all, there is no maintenance. That's not a way to conduct policy, is it? Saying you're not gonna keep it? Branch associations, as I read in a newspaper, call on their members not to employzzp'ers in particular. Surely you can't condone that the law is being broken and that violations are tolerated by not being enforced? Does that mean that the Secretary of State actually wants companies to go ahead and break the law? Is that what he's saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u7	No. At the moment you are reviewing those frameworks, it is a bit illogical to start to maintain the current frameworks. Then the situation of the VAR. I think Mr Bashir mentioned it as a dragon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u8	A freak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u9	He called her a freak. Of course, the VAR was a wonderful thing. In doing so, clients were protected, regardless of whether they complied with the legal frameworks, and the contractors were not protected and often did not know whether they were following the law or not, because they had no prior security. That wasn't a great situation. The VAR had to believe it. I now propose that the 'interbellum', just to put it mildly, for the interim period, be given certainty by making sure that we do not go along with this legal framework. We're about to rethink it. We're going to re-evaluate the legal framework. Then we will see how and when this enforcement is resumed. That'll be after 1-1-18. Until then, that's just not wise. We let the VAR go, and we introduced the model agreement. It works for a lot of cases, too. Yeah, they even bring false self-employment to light. However, there are plenty of things that are not working. Then I find it fitting to say: ho ho, take a look at the place, repair first and then think about driving again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u10	At least the VAR had in it that it gave security to the client in advance. This law doesn't do that. The Secretary of State is actually saying: break the law, all of them, because I'm not going to enforce. He actually says: everyone should pay VAT, but the system isn't in order yet so I don't maintain a year. That's no way to do it, is it? The field is desperate for clarity and certainty. If the Secretary of State sees the non-maintainment as a solution, he'd better rescind the law. That is my proposal, because this law was and is a monstrosity and will always be. Pull in that law, because it does not do what it is intended to do, namely to counter false self-employment. That law needs to be repealed, and then we're going back to the VAR. For me you don't have to maintain the VAR with the contractor either, but you do give the clients the assurance in advance that they won't break the law. You don't ask the clients to break the law, but they must do so knowingly, because there is no enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u11	No, it's not like that. No one will say that a suspension of enforcement is a long-term solution. Me neither. The long-term solution is to recalibrate the frameworks and think carefully about what we think of the concepts of "service association" and "self-employment." In the meantime, we offer the assurance that there will be no fines and no post-taxes. That's the certainty we're offering. That is a good way, because there is no good argument for strong enforcement with a framework that you have announced you are recalibrateing. That doesn't make any sense. Mr Van Dijck is right when he says that this is not a long-term solution. It is a suspension to be able to do appropriate repair work, namely the recalibratement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u12	I wonder if this is a short-term solution. Let the Secretary of State move into the position of a listed company with fiscalists. They have to explain what they're doing, and of course they can't explain that they're breaking the law because it's tolerated. What's your answer for these companies? They will cease to extend the assignments massively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u13	Is Mr Bashir now calling on everyone to change the law so that everyone who is nowzzp'er fits into it? We have the problem clearly. There are realzzp'ers who are excluded because of a high risk aversity, there arezzp'ers who are independent in all their facets but do not fit into the law now and there are situations where you cannot indicate it precisely, because the framework for these cases has a too large grey area. Then it is a good solution to temporarily halt enforcement. This includes a clear date: 1-1-2018, or as much longer as it takes to recalibrate the framework. That'll give you some certainty. No one is invited to break the law, but we are now reviewing the framework. You cannot pretend that that framework applies forever, nor can you impose fines or post-taxes on the people who are subject to that framework. So we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u14	This is really listening very closely. Listed companies do not want to radiate to their shareholders that they may violate the law, even if it is not enforced. You can't explain that. That is why they opt for security, and that security is no longer to give orders to entrepreneurs, even though they are real entrepreneurs who have many tasks and work independently without authority. In these cases, too, they will choose, from uncertainty, not to enter into contracts. I do not understand why the Secretary of State cannot move in those entrepreneurs and in those fiscalists with their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u15	The entrepreneurs mentioned by Mr Bashir are exactly the entrepreneurs who are entrepreneurs. With the removal of enforcement and the risk of fines and post-taxes, they can get to work, because they are realzzp'ers. On the contrary, I invite all companies to work with thosezzp'ers and leave the risk aversity for a while for what it is. In the example given by Mr Bashir, we are talking about the entrepreneurs we want to get to work. In doing so, it helps to say that people, who are not yet fully clear-cut by the current frameworks, have too many of these types of entrepreneurs on the side, so let us stop enforcement for them for a moment. That doesn't mean they're doing anything illegal or anything like that. No, that just means they can get to work. The entrepreneurs described by Mr Bashir are, in his view and in my opinion, entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u16	I see that Mr Bashir wishes to respond again. Is this also your second possibility of interruption, Mr Bashir?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u17	Well, Mr. Chairman, I asked the Secretary of State a question about listed companies. Those who want...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u18	So you are now using your second possibility of interruption, I say for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u19	That's fine, Mr. Chairman. Listed companies want to radiate to their shareholders that they respect the law properly, including in the Netherlands. Why don't you let the Secretary of State deal with that? Why does he think that these companies can continue with these constructions, despite the fact that they may be violating the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u20	The IRS isn't forcing anyone to embrace constructions that go against the law, is it? However, if there is a grey area and there is no clarity, it is useful to say that we are putting enforcement on hold for a moment and we come back with a sharper, recalibrated framework. If there is, that grey area has been addressed and there is clarity for everyone. Then it fits again to continue, but not before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u21	Mr Bashir asked his follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u22	I don't think we're getting out of here. There is uncertainty about precisely those proportions, so about the grey area we are talking about. In some cases, there will certainly be false self-employment, but in many cases there is also just real businessmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u23	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u24	Yet they are in a grey area, for example, if it is not clear whether or not there is a relationship of authority. A listed company does not want to take such a risk, even if the rules are not enforced. The Secretary of State often talks about security here, for example when I talk about the Vpb. I therefore do not understand why he does not simply want to clarify this matter for those entrepreneurs and their clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u25	This is exactly why we must now, with haste, work on a re-examined framework, so that we can also give that leftover in that grey area security in advance. This is exactly why we're doing this. But it is also the reason why we are not going to distribute the re-examination, fines or post-charges. We shouldn't do that, and that wouldn't make any sense. So yes, to give clarity in advance, that framework needs to be strengthened. Professor Boot has already made a number of recommendations for this. Many spokesmen in this Chamber are thinking in that direction. This needs to be worked out in order to clarify where this clarity does not yet exist, including for these multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u26	I believe that the various members of the Chamber are right to ask why the Secretary of State is holding onto the DBA Act. We've seen that law doesn't do its job. This is the first debate we have on this issue, in which the Secretary of State also admits it. Then he says: I have to go to a review. It'll take us six months to get there fast, but it'll be a year soon. Then it is best to at least clarify, including in the legal framework. Then we must say: this is the law that will apply until we are back on track, namely by an improved law? The DBA Act is not an improved law, because it leads to a lot of uncertainty. Then you have to say: we're giving the framework now? The Christian Union has proposed to opt for the VAR again. Then you don't have to rig up any tolerant construction. Then you can just say to companies: this is the law. Why is the Secretary of State holding onto the DBA Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u27	The most important issues need to be resolved. They're in the recalibrate of that frame. That's what we need to do now. Until then, on balance, there is a situation similar to that of the VAR. But getting the freak back is something else. Many of the problems we are discussing today are, of course, due to this VAR. I listen to the Boot Committee, I listen to many in the field, I listen to the entrepreneurs involved, I listen to thezzp organisations. In addition, I do not hear a broad call to bring back the monstrosity VAR. There is, however, a broad call to clarify that there is no fine at the moment and that there are no post-taxes, but also that the framework is being worked on. After the summer, we have clearly noticed that the framework is pinched and unclear here and there. That's gonna give us a big gray area. We need to work on that. The solution must be at the forefront and until then there is no enforcement, but the situation for these parties is no different from that for the VAR.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u28	Here is the crux: material we do nothing but with the VAR, only let it not be legally the VAR. I agree with Mr Bashir that the Secretary of State is actually putting all companies in a sort of tolerative structure. We make laws here for a reason. We make laws to ensure that they are respected. This law won't do that. He's not good enough for that. We have to take care of that. We need to work on finding a long-term solution. We all agree on that. But right now, we have a law that doesn't work. The Secretary of State says the equipment is the VAR. Then make it the VAR. Or does the Secretary of State want a situation with model agreements with his re-examination after all? If he wants to, it's fair if he just puts that on the table right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u29	The VAR was an instrument that protected the parties if they went far beyond the labour law framework and thus violated it. If you appreciate that in this case the law is being complied with, then you should not bring the VAR back, because it called for false self-employment. Let's not bring the VAR back. The committee of labour law experts led by Professor Boot says that this would be unwise. I also think that's unwise. The Boot Committee recommended that enforcement be suspended. I think that recommendation is wise. The committee also says: go work on the framework. For this she makes a number of substantive suggestions, which I will look into later. I think that's a logical recommendation and I intend to follow her up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u30	You want to spend your second interruption on this, Mrs. Schouten? You can, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u31	No, Mr. Chairman. I didn't get an answer to my question. Does the Secretary of State finally want the model agreements back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u32	The question is clear. I'm following Professor Boot in this. He says model agreements can work. That is also true, because 95% of the sectors that have requested a model agreement have eventually received one. He says that the frameworks within which that happens must be reviewed. This may mean that there is a need to change that. He also says that there are cases where a model agreement does not meet, does not provide sufficient clarity and allows an over-gray area to exist. He makes recommendations to clarify this. The clearer and more unambiguous the framework becomes, the less model agreements we need. But the model agreement is in no way an obligation. She's volunteering. She's a service from the IRS. I have said several times that companies very often ask for a model agreement, which is not necessary at all, because most of them do not need one at all. So I'm not in favour of blowing up the system like that, but if companies ask for clarity that way, they can get it. After all, I am in favour of everyone getting clarity in their own way. The frame can take a lot of the cold out of the sky. As the framework becomes clearer, you need fewer model agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u33	We'll talk about the suggestions I made in a moment to get much more clarity. Let's get to the problem. The Secretary of State says the clarity is there. Of course, I would like to share that objective with him, but I do not see any clarity in practice or in the letters of the Secretary of State. Let me give you a concrete example. ING, or any bank, has an IT person working as a zzp'er. ING examines whether this is allowed and then receives a letter stating: I am not going to maintain, unless you were malicious and perhaps could have known it was an employment contract. Then you're a compliance officer at ING or ABN AMRO and then you have to think "are we going to hire them?" And then you'll read a report from the Boot Committee, which says: if it's core business, we don't think it's self-employed. Is an IT guy at a bank core business? I can't tell you. Or you're a cameraman at a production company. We had a very good example in a hearing. I share the Secretary of State's commitment to clarity, but with these concepts, you can't do anything. Whether it is a multinational or a production house, if one wants to know whether one is not doing something that cannot be done, I would not dare to advise on this. I think that is a problem, and the Secretary of State should also find it a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u34	That's nice now, because that's exactly what the Secretary of State thinks. I think that the core business criterion mentioned by Mr Van Weyenberg is a good example. That is not a suggestion from me, it is not something the Tax Administration is currently using, it is a suggestion for an indicator from Mr Boot. A great suggestion for the discussion that is now underway and for the research that is to come, but the Tax Administration is not working with this criterion right now. It is not that we say to the bank in question that something is or is not core business. I am grateful to Professor Boot's committee for the high-quality recommendations, but I have also concluded, with Mr Van Weyenberg, that this does not yet give the necessary clarity. We're not gonna get through it without working it out. I fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. As far as those evildoers are concerned, I think we need to get out of there quickly. I do not think that the compliance officer of the bank in question will recognize himself in terms of 'fraud','scam', 'falseness', 'conspiracy' and 'exploitation'. I therefore believe that there is no doubt in that bank that one does not belong to the limited group of the most serious malicious parties. I dare to be quite sure that there is no fear of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u35	That would be nice, but I'd like to see that again for all those big companies. Now you have the EntrepreneursCheck. You're trying to fill it out. I talked to someone who was filling that out, a cameraman. He simply gets stuck in the concepts, while knowingly and knowingly he chooses for his own account and risk. I share the Secretary of State's long-term search. I think you should ultimately be able to decide how you want to work, whether you want to be an employee or a self-employed person. Can't the Secretary of State say that today, as we speak, it's ready for clients and independent professionals? He can't say that, can he? Then he does the same as Mr Ziengs: just say "we shouldn't talk about it anymore, we'll be fine." As much as I would like to agree with the Secretary of State, it is not the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u36	As much as I can't wait to disagree with Mr Van Weyenberg, I can't. No, I won't at all claim that here too is not the portee of the thing that the EntrepreneursCheck is meant to give some kind of definitive clarity to entrepreneurs. That's not what the check's for. It was a question from the market: can the Tax Administration give us indications as to when someone is an entrepreneur? Does that give clear clarity? No. Does that clarify the employment relationship that we are talking about here? Not at all, because that's not what the thing's written for. I also agree with Mr Van Weyenberg here, that is correct. That's exactly why we have to do two things. We need to review the framework so that there is clarity about the employment relationship. All kinds of useful ideas have been put on the table, not only by Professor Boot but from all sides in society; read today's newspapers: all wonderful suggestions. These should lead to a framework that provides clarity. Until then, we have a different clarity, and I think that is a greater clarity, namely that there is no enforcement, so that you do not have to fear, not in and not over this period, for fines and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u37	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u38	Mr Omtzigt asks: shouldn't the fact that you don't maintain be clearly recorded, for example by law? Enforcement strategies are not laid down in legal regulations, but they must be established somewhere. In this case, the Wage Tax Handbook is the appropriate place for this. It's on the website of the IRS. That is what we are talking about here. In paragraph 1.1.6..................................................................................................................................................... That's what's specified in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u39	We have seen that the Wage Tax Handbook has been amended today, so that at least the passage in question, with in my view the most clear of the definitions we have had so far, is included in it. However, I still have a small point with regard to the Wage Tax Handbook. In 2008, the Supreme Court ruled that the Wage Tax Handbook is no more than information. The Secretary of State then decided, in 2009, that was the predecessor of this Secretary of State, that it is more or less the legal force of a policy decision, unless you can see clearly that it is not. That piece just got added again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u40	Okay, congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u41	That was why the CDA Group asked for it to be recorded explicitly. We said: explicitly record what you do not maintain and also explicitly record in which cases you will maintain from tomorrow. The latter is, after all, the other side of the question; the Secretary of State is likely to come to that. Is the Secretary of State prepared to include this in a policy decision, as he does with all kinds of things about the Working Cost Scheme and all kinds of other things relating to wage charges?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u42	Of all those involved in this process, I was most eager to record this in real terms, but the lawyers are standing there as a simple engineer and have assured me that you do not lay down this kind of enforcement strategies in legislation and that the Wage Charges Handbook is the appropriate piece for that. The parties are entitled to rely on this and can rely on it, which will provide legal certainty for this period until 01-01-18. Mr Omtzigt is very well aware of this history. I'll take a look at that. I think I share his desire to record it as sharply and as legally certain as possible, but this is what I have come to in that attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u43	Would you like to ask a follow-up question, Mr Omtzigt, or do you not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u44	I'll save that for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u45	I think that's very good. Then the Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u46	Several suggestions have been made. People asked, "Would it be possible for sister?" Or "would it be possible?" I have, of course, gone through this phase intensively in the last few weeks. Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Schouten asked why not adopt all the Boat criteria now? Mr Omtzigt added a small limit to that, because he said: don't do that core business criterion. I have looked at these recommendations with a great deal of appreciation, because it is not easy to reduce the provisions of the Civil Code, which were later translated into ten other things by judges, to a manageable set that is more in line with what we now think about labour. I have, of course, seriously considered these criteria in the run-up to that second progress report. I therefore asked Professor Boot to produce the report earlier... he was keen to do so... so that I could make use of those suggestions. I think this is a very valuable basis for thinking through, but I see two objections at the moment. That may be different later, but I'll explain. Firstly, I am afraid that more uncertainty can arise if we adopt it now. It will be out of the blue now, but the discussion on the ten most serious cases already gave rise to uncertainty. We are talking about an extension of the framework, which could cause perhaps tens of thousands ofzzp's or thousands of clients to be worried. We know the criteria, so I'm not going to repeat them. If we decide to do so, what does azzp'er think of working 40% above the collective wage? Does he think, "I'm an employed man"? That is actually the message you are sending, which is not necessarily the conclusion. What does a zzp'er think with a seven-month assignment? He may also think he should be employed, but that's not what we're saying. We're just saying, like this, then that. How does thatzzp'er judge if he's in a core business? After that, he'll have to weigh those criteria. That's a lot of homework. Prof. Boat can do that, and the IRS will have to learn it, if this were to become a base. This is not something that gives clarity now; not in this form. I think we need some rest now in order to be able to think about this framework with more than two political minds. In the meantime, I don't think this gives any clarity. I also wonder if there is sufficient support for this. There is a good tradition in the Netherlands of this type of change, because it is more than the disappearance of the VAR. We are talking about something fundamental and great, namely labour law. My colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, will speak about this later. It is good practice to involve the entrepreneurs, let me mention just one thing. I would not now like to unilaterally decide on the criteria of Prof. Boat to declare valid and then not to make the usual social alignment and balancing. It is a very valuable contribution to the debate, but it is not now ripe to adopt quickly. I have already responded to Mr Omtzigt's suggestions. That was in the debate in which he also drew attention to these two criteria. He said at the time that we should review that framework. That all sounded like music to me, but too hasty is not the way to do business in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u47	Mr Omtzigt would like to comment on this. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u48	It seems like we're dealing with a law to see how it's going to be implemented, but the reality is that the law has been in force for a year. We had a debate in September, including these questions. We then got the quote that it seemed inappropriate for the Secretary of State to change labour law so late at night, while the motion asked to study on it. I understand you won't do that in a minute. Now we are talking again about a valuable contribution to the debate by Prof. Boat. I do not have the urgency, both in the government and in the government, to make a number of adjustments before 15 March. Looks like everything's getting over the election for a while. Then we'll see if further delay is necessary in the middle of the year. Why can't a partial implementation of the recommendations of Prof. Boat? You can create a safe zone so that someone inside is justzzp'er. In addition, you can work with model contracts. Why can't that policy decision be taken? Why can't we maintain it immediately? We'll get that from the Minister of Social Affairs. There are ten cases of obvious abuse, but some of us suspect that there are more. Why the caution now, whenzzp'ers are out of assignments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u49	The way to ensure thatzzp'ers do not have to run out of assignments during this period is to give them the assurance that there are no fines and post-charges. In my view, the letter radiates all the haste you can make on this file. The Minister of SZW will say something about the process and the haste behind it, because that is a route that is mainly not in the Tax Administration, but in society as a whole. And I'm with the IRS and my colleague is with society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u50	As early as April, we asked for clarity. We did the same in August. In September we held a debate in which three motions were tabled. Has the government ever had a session in the last six or seven months, rather than in the last three weeks, where it thought "the DBA Act is not running as we thought; we are constantly getting signals and those signals are getting more intense; let's start research"? Or has that investigation really only started in these two weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u51	No, that investigation started shortly after the trial in the First Chamber, because then the Boot Committee was set up. That committee has been asked to follow what the IRS is doing. 150 model agreements have been examined, but also the way the system of security works in advance. That system worked well in a lot of cases, although we note that its results are not always socially acceptable. That's a problem, too. That did not work well in a limited number of cases. That leads to a grey area. After the summer, this became more and more clear. I have therefore set the hotline to find out more precisely what its effect is and what was going on. Furthermore, I have intensified discussions with all stakeholders and I have asked Professor Boot to speed up the investigation. We did. It was asked to investigate what is the best way to ultimately tighten this method and how we can create some rest in the meantime. Realzzp'ers who are insecure or out of work: that's something you don't want to afford.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u52	I see you're trying to interrupt again, Mr. Omtzigt, but we're not gonna pee. I've allowed you four interruptions, and that's already generous. I want to keep it a little tight. Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u53	The Secretary of State is talking about peace. I think he heard that from Mr Ziengs. You can't get that peace of mind by suspending enforcement. So it turns out. 62,000 people are now out of commission. Yesterday's letter of fire from ZZP Netherlands says: we are heading for a disaster, because that will soon be 100,000. 100,000zzp's who could always make a decent living, now pushes this Secretary of State towards welfare. 'Cause that's what he actually says. That's not rest for those families, it's a lot of misery, a lot of unrest. The employers are called upon to hire thezzp'ers anyway because they are not enforced, but those employers are not crazy. They comply with the law. ING has completely changed its policy and no longer hireszzp'ers under this DBA Act. The industry calls for the removal of this DBA Act. This Secretary of State talks about peace, while society is experiencing great chaos and unrest. How can the Secretary of State do that? He must act now to prevent 100,000 people from being on welfare!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u54	I have the impression that this question has already been put in a previous interruption, but Mr Van Dijck is free to put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u55	That was Mr Ziegs, but now it is about peace and the call to companies...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u56	The Secretary of State is responding now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u57	...to employ people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u58	So far it has been an argument, but I shall only interpret this argument as a question. The fear of fines and post-charges led parties to stop doing business with each other, even sometimes in cases where there really was no reason to do so. That is, of course, the essence of this. That is the obvious theme, also at my table. The fines and the post-charges were feared. If you then start reviewing a framework, going to work with it and seriously looking as a society at how to make it sharper and better, then it will give you some rest if you can take away precisely that fear: fines and post-charges. So there aren't any. That's what's supposed to provide certainty here. And the VAR doesn't change anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u59	The Secretary of State believes in the coffeeshop model and thinks this can be applied at ING. He should take the trouble to call ING tomorrow and ask if the bank has changed its policy and is going to hire self-employed people again. I promise you I'm not gonna enforce, he can add. ING will start laughing and saying: of course not, because there is a Law DBA and we stick to it; whether the Secretary of State maintains or not, we are a serious business. That's the unrest the Secretary of State is causing. That's why I'm telling him there's gotta be something that's gonna bring peace. That's different from the DBA. For example, this is an hourly rate of €40, as a limit to being an entrepreneur. Something like that, as Mr Boot proposes. Then we get into a quieter water and you have the chance that ING says it can do something with it, that it takes back people who earn €40 or more as a zzp'er. But the Secretary of State doesn't. He leaves it hanging over the market like the sword of Damocles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u60	There is one thing Mr Van Dijck and I seem to agree on, namely that there must be a framework that provides clarity. However, we should not rush to do so. I predict that a very important part of the stakeholders, in terms of branches, entrepreneurs and contractors, will then alienate themselves and that it will not give any extra clarity at the moment. That's exactly what I'm trying to prevent. I fully agree with him that we need to move towards such a framework, which gives you clarity, so that a lot of parties no longer need a model agreement. A minority now needs model agreements, but then there are even fewer parties who will be able to speak to a model agreement at all. I fully agree with that. But if we do that in a hurry, it's gonna be a mess. It's a little bigger than just abolishing the VAR. This is very fundamental. You're talking about the whole job market. What works for one sector does not have to work for the other sector. If we apply Mr Van Dijck's criterion, I do not know whether this bank will hire any morezzp'ers at all, because then there is apparently a big problem below the €40. I really don't want that said. Mr Bashir asked for an entrepreneurial check. In the interruption to Mr Van Weyenberg it emerged. I insist that it is an instrument that gives indications at entrepreneurial level. However, it does not give us the certainty we are looking for. It also makes no mention of the specific employment relationship in the work on which work is being carried out. Indications are welcome, but the answer we're looking for is greater clarity than that. All kinds of questions related to the employment framework or to labour law have also been asked. My colleague will take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u61	I'll come back...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u62	Sorry, I wasn't finished. I haven't answered my written questions yet. I'm running out of people right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u63	I'm sure that saves some interruptions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u64	I had suspended enforcement, but now I had also suspended the response. It's not going well. I'm gonna go through the remaining questions. Mr Omtzigt made five suggestions. In my view, I have given sufficient consideration to this, with the exception of the clarification of the relationship of authority and substitution, as regards the employment law document. About the plan to employ people, my colleague will speak with great eagerness. Mrs Vos is actually asking if I agree with her call for VNO-NCW to employ people. Can I see her question like that? I hear her now saying it was about assignments, so that interpretation was just wrong. Anyway, so does this employers' organization. It has said that it is pleased that this way of enforcement is being put on hold and welcomes the fact that the framework is being worked on. It will undoubtedly do so in the belief that its members will be involved in any way as a client. So I have had support there. I have followed Professor Boot's recommendation to put this on hold and to call for normal working withzzp'ers. VNO-NCW was pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u65	Maybe I was a little brighter about VNO-NCW. I have heard several things about this, and I think that we really need to show things now. However, my question before me was about the numbers. We have seen the estimates of Intelligence Group and Pierre Spaninks: 60,000zzp'ers would have lost their assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u66	I'm here to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u67	Now or later?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u68	Right now, in response to Mrs. Vos's questions. There have been several external researchers. They haven't really investigated who was bogus self-employed and they haven't really looked at the effect of the DBA on the assignments forzzp'ers. They have found out by means of a polling ring which part of thezzp'ers themselves think that it does not have enough assignments. They did that among a limited but not childish group, so that research can very well be statistically significant. However, I do not think that is enough for policy making. There is a figure, but you do not know what normal unemployment was, for example friction unemployment amongzzp'ers. You can't tell what the causes were either. If there are more permanent jobs, there can be fewerzzp'ers, but you don't know that kind of thing. I have therefore tried to keep a finger on the wrist in three other ways. First of all, I kept in touch, not only with the domes, but also with the clients. There may be spokesmen in the room who have spoken to the same people as me, because occasionally I recognize a statement. Secondly, I have asked Professor Boot to design his research in a really broad way, and to advise me as broad as he wants on how it is going: not only about how the Tax Administration is doing, but also about how this is going, so how it fits into the labour market. Furthermore, there is the hotline, where we have received many reports from which we have learned a lot. That's what I thought were the policy-relevant ways to keep a finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u69	My question was, why don't you come up with numbers? There are many different datasets. You just mentioned three, but there are more. If we are going to slowly change things, and I do understand that it is fairly fundamental, then we simply need more guidance in the quantitative sense, so knowledge of how manyzzp'ers have gone on carefree or how many had a job. I think that's relevant. So we need more data than just policy-relevant information, especially when others come up with very concrete figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u70	Figures at such an abstraction level never say so much. You don't know how it happened. For example, if we had started measuring in that way and left out all those other things, we would have found out much later that something was pinching in the framework. That's what you really want to know. The bare figures may be interesting, but from such studies I do not get an answer to the question of which part is actually bogus self-employed or which part could actually have just been able to work. You have to get that from conversations and observations from the committee and from the hotline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u71	Would you like to spend your second interruption on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u72	No, I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u73	The Secretary of State is about his own answers, but you can, of course, question him further through an interruption. That's what interruptions are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u74	I did not find the answer in the written reply either. Looks like the government isn't interested in the numbers at all. We're doing a lot of work here. I just want to know how manyzzp'ers get and don't get hurt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u75	Kale figures on how manyzzp'ers there are at the moment give an incomplete picture if you don't know how they used to do it and what the causes are. It's too fragmentary a way to look at it. That is why we have not launched such surveys.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u76	In his reply, the Secretary of State maintains the Spokesman's Order, but I had asked a very specific question. We are going to look at authority and replaceability, but I have specifically proposed the creation of some sort of safe zone in the short term, along with what Mr Omtzigt said. If you work on an assignment less than 500 hours or more than €40 per hour, you just need to know that there is no employment. This applies to both the self-employed and the client. I find it a little too easy to say that people then think that they should no longer be self-employed underneath. Of course not! We'll stay in the Secretary of State's world for that, but can't we arrange it for a whole group? I found the suggestion made by Mr Ruts, among others, interesting; that is why I asked for it. He said: if you meet one of these two criteria, at least you are quite sure, already, in advance, without any doubt or uncertainty. That's a supplement, isn't it? I don't understand why the Secretary of State is so dismissive of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u77	It's a supplement, but we need to be a little careful with that. If I say that there are no enforcement, fines and post-charges, then there is still some form of doubt in the initial period. That's why we need to be careful with these kinds of messages. Mr Van Weyenberg and I can make sense to each other that, if you still preserve something within a group, that does not mean that the rest is suddenly in the suspect's corner. We can share that, but we cannot explain that to society. In addition to this, I have already made that argument when we discussed the immediate adoption of the framework of the Boot Committee that there is no support for such matters in many parts of society. You're gonna have new trouble. I can easily imagine that the largest employer and client organisation in the Netherlands is not at all ported for such an hourly rate limit. Mr Van Weyenberg's safeguard is something that I would like to apply to the whole group. That's my call. There is no penalty and enforcement for the whole group, and we are going to look for these kinds of boundaries. It could well be these kinds of boundaries, but let's think about it a little bit more. The Minister will discuss in more detail how best to organise these kinds of processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u78	It's unclear now, and I'm looking for a solution, although it might be far from ideal. I'm trying to glue shards together. It'll never be nice, but hopefully it'll be better. Can't you at least say the following? If you work for more than €40 per hour, you fall outside the DBA Act. That's good. Period. Underneath that, the law applies and is not enforced, but the one group knows that he does not need to be insecure anymore and so does the client. I do not mean that you should no longer call it entrepreneurship; that is not what I mean. I am concerned that a number of groups are now told: you are temporarily excluded, pending further decisions, from the DBA Act. I'm manly trying to glue shards. We do not start from a search for the ideal, but we start from a problematic situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u79	In the past few weeks and months, such ideas have passed me too. In this fervent quest Mr Van Weyenberg and I are one, so I want to assure him. I finally rejected those ideas, because I am convinced, even when talking about these ideas with people at the table, that they can create new uncertainty again, but sometimes also great resistance. There are also all kinds of groups in our society, perhaps they could even vote for a party other than Mr Van Weyenberg's, who have great difficulty with such criteria. We only need to have studied the media and we could just gamble together that a large employers' organisation is not at all served by this kind of hourly rate limits. That doesn't mean they're here in the Chamber. Mr Van Weyenberg is here in the Chamber. That's what matters in the end. But we should not pretend that there are easy solutions here to outline with great support a lot more clarity. It just takes a little more time. Mr Van Weyenberg's quest is not only very recognizable to me, but it is also very precious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u80	The word "border" implies that I would say that underneath you are no longer an independent entrepreneur. I take it the Secretary of State doesn't mean that. Of course, that's not what I mean. I'd like to explain that for a moment, if people get that feeling. I am looking to put groups outside the framework of the DBA Act, which is obvious that it is just right and that it applies to their client, in order to get that market going again. I fully agree with the Secretary of State that it is not ideal. We should not put this into the market as a limit, but we should just say: for these groups the DBA Act simply no longer applies. That gives more certainty, doesn't it? The Secretary of State and I both do not want to give the impression that if you do not meet one of these two criteria, then it is no longer allowed. But we are handing out a kind of green card in advance which says: this is definitely 100% good. I do feel like there's a need for that. I would not understand very well, certainly with this explanation, a resistance to VNO-NCW against that point either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u81	I have also followed Mr Van Weyenberg's thinking paths. This also applies to some of his intermediate conclusions, but this does not apply to his final conclusion. I have talked about this with quite a lot of parties, with political views, but also with labour-market lawyers. We're making it a little too simple with the idea that we can do something as fast as we can, which would now give us great clarity. Mr Van Weyenberg said: outside the DBA Act. It's just a formality, but I think he means outside the employment framework. He has capitulated me for the improper use of the DBA Act, I will not do so in reverse, but he means that it does not have to comply with that working framework or that it automatically complies with it. He means one of those two. I predict that if we do that with these kinds of criteria and rush, that will go wrong and that will really create new uncertainty. So my proposal is not to say: above €40, below 500 hours. I say, everyone, no fines and post-charges now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u82	I note that Mr Van Weyenberg is abandoning a follow-up question. Mrs. Schouten has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u83	The last time we had the debate here, I ended with the question: what did thezzp'ers get out of this? It's a question that's gonna push itself again. The Secretary of State says that in the short term he has provided clarity by saying: I am not going to maintain, I am not going to impose fines. We had a hearing here last week. That letter from the Secretary of State was already known by then. At that time it was already known that there would be no fines and post-charges. And yet all thosezzp'ers said: please give us clarity in the short term. So the Secretary of State wasn't clear enough. That's what we're all looking for right now. How can we improve this clarity in the short term? The Secretary of State's just saying, "I'm gonna write more notes, I'm gonna explain it to them again." When did the Secretary of State reach the border and say: that doesn't work either?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u84	In any case, the suggestion of going back to the VAR is not effective, because the VAR gives no certainty or any safeguard tozzp'ers. I have heard here several times: let's re-introduce the VAR and then start maintaining it normally. If we did that, it would lead to great consternation in the land of thezzp'ers. They will not be guaranteed in advance, but they will be subject to fines and post-tax penalties. Let's not do that. The difference between non-maintaining and the old VAR is that not only the clients, but in this case also the contractors, have the assurance that they will not be fined during that period. Less than zero fines and zero post-taxes cannot be done, so it will indeed be a matter of clear communication. I would therefore like to call on everyone, and I have heard more of this call here, including from Mr Van Weyenberg, to convey it. For there is that certainty; that assurance is given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u85	The difference between the VAR and the DBA Act is 62,000 assignments. 62,000 assignments have been lost because we now have the DBA Act. The VAR was not ideal, but it gave clarity. Back then, morezzp'ers had assignments than is currently the case. Isn't that why the Secretary of State started looking for solutions to the DBA Act? He can't deny that, can he? When is he going to reach the border when he says the communication isn't working? And perhaps even the bigger question: does he regret this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u86	It's clear we're not here yet. We've been working on the fight against bogus self-employed. I had to. We have a generous system of incentives for entrepreneurs in the Netherlands. That includes enforcement. We have designed this wonderful toolbox for entrepreneurs who, according to the law, are really entrepreneurs. People who use them when they are not actually entitled to do so are false self-employed. We had to bet on that. You cannot create an attractive toolbox and then not maintain it at all for ten years. You know in advance that that period is accompanied by some uncertainty, also for realzzp'ers. To get used to it, we have taken 15 months. That deadline is now getting longer. However, this is never entirely without uncertainty. You also know in advance that you cannot satisfy everyone, just not the people who are falsely self-employed. Many of these people can still work as a zzp'er, but in a different way. In this country, we can't handle ten more years of VAR. The view that the VAR should not come back is therefore widely shared. That recommendation is also made by Boot and his and I consider them very high. A few of the best labor lawyers say, "Don't go back to the VAR now, but go fix it in the meantime." I think that's appropriate. You are initiating a change in enforcement; another enforcement, but no other legal framework. We didn't do that last one. So, put that change in place. Halfway through, you find things don't work. Things are coming up that aren't right. We now discover that the law has side effects that we didn't expect, that weren't predicted in ibo zzp, or by the partners that participated. So there are unexpected effects. It is then appropriate that it should also be in the board of directors to take place: on hold, rest, no enforcement, and then go back to work on the legal framework. Going back to the VAR, physically speaking, shoots no one at anything. Legally speaking, it was a freak, according to Mr Bashir's words. Mr Bashir and I do not agree on this every day, but we do agree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u87	I do not yet have an answer to my question as to whether the Secretary of State regrets this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u88	I'm saying we're not here yet. I say the abolition of the VAR was good. I'm saying we need to put on hold and repair in between. If we had known everything in advance, if I had been omniscient, I would have started working on the labour law framework first. That's what I was going to do, because then I would have known that there had been a smaller grey area, there would have been fewer model agreements and then we would have thought very carefully about who we find now and who we don't. It turns out that we no longer agree with our own law in all areas. I would have done that first. But no one knows everything. Those who did this to me weren't omniscient either. We're gonna figure this out now, and then it's appropriate to intervene. So you should not be sorry, but repair and strive for a better framework. You have to make it a success. You do that by redirecting: less on model agreements, recalibrate the framework, only now put it in place and later come back with something better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u89	The Secretary of State will continue to explain. Just as much as he keeps explaining it to all thosezzp'ers, who don't have much use for that, because they're losing their assignments now. Something has to be done. That's what we're looking for in this room. Everyone makes a number of proposals for this. There's something to be said about everything, but I notice that the Secretary of State just keeps explaining it, and nobody gets a job from it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u90	Let me be clear: I am not getting warmed up by proposals that I regard as labour law haste, where there are still plenty of parties involved and which are also going to create more uncertainty in the intervening period. I have come to the conclusion that all kinds of ideas that I have developed and weighed in between give more uncertainty and that more questions are being asked about them. Mr Van Weyenberg and I may agree that the situation is clear on both sides of €40, but a lot of people do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u91	Mr Bashir, for his third interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u92	Some of my questions have not been answered. I asked about that 77%...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u93	I'll get to that. I would have stayed with Mr Ziengs' input. He said, "Wouldn't you sit down with clients in the context of information?" I do, and the appointment machine runs. In all honesty, I believe that we can derive only limited clarity from this. I'm wearing it out. I do that, and I do that mostly to keep a finger on the wrist. There's only one thing you can do. We must be realistic about this. I've just started a round of conversations. If only we had to have it out of that... I think we need to communicate more massively, so with industry organisations and domes. We must also work together with the business organisations. A lot of communication to entrepreneurs also runs through business organisations. We can communicate withzzp'ers from the Tax Office, because we can identify them. At least that applies to the ex-VAR holders. But the clients form an amorphic whole. We do not have the contact person within the clients somewhere under a button. Entrepreneur organisations will be asked to cooperate with them. That's gotta be a lot more massive than just at my table. Of course, it suits me to keep in touch with what is happening, and to understand what is happening and what the effects are, as I did in the underlying period. By the way, it's amazing when you find out how big the differences between branches are. In this respect, there is always something to be said for a sectoral approach. But that's another point. What do I think of Boot's recommendations? Are they actually feasible? That's what Mrs. Schouten asked. I think that a framework has been set in motion that is really more feasible than the complete civil law framework we have now. It's concentrated and more operational, but I think there's another battle to be done. I mentioned at my table the core business argument in relation to ICTs in banks and it is also mentioned twice here in this debate. That is interesting; we probably speak a lot of the same people. That must therefore be clearly tightened up. If we take such a criterion now as the farmer, I think this will create new uncertainty. A labour law expert is able to weigh concepts, but you cannot expect that from every employee. I think that on the basis of these kinds of recommendations, there are other recommendations that we need to find a harder set of unambiguous criteria, which will make people less quick to reach for a model agreement, because they simply see what it says, apply it on their own and find it clear. That's where we really need to go. Mr Bashir asked whether 77% would be falsely self-employed. No, of course not. If you don't give the assurance in advance that it can be outside an employment relationship, that doesn't mean you're giving certainty about the opposite. That's too simplistic. It can't be. Sometimes you can't give that certainty in the grey area, but that doesn't automatically mean that the opposite is true. That is certainly not the case. If you count the first, second and third versions of the interbranch agreements as one, it is interesting to see that in most cases a model agreement comes out. Admittedly, often the version that comes out in the end is different from the first version. Sometimes they work differently than the company did until then, but eventually they become self-employed, albeit sometimes in a slightly different way than how it originally worked. When I hear the accusation that we're making it impossible in this country to make your living as a vzzp'er, I'm gonna grab the numbers. I think there are few countries with 1 millionzzp'ers out of 17 million inhabitants, and I am, frankly, proud of that. That's a lot of them. Mr Klein asked how I deal with the fundamental right of free entrepreneurship in relation to the DBA Act. We should not suggest that we are standing in the way of free enterprise in the Netherlands. The enforcement of labour legislation that we have is normal, but it gives a lot of people people, and probably in the Netherlands more opportunities than in any other country in the world, certainly free enterprise. I do not think that we are coming into conflict with human rights quickly, because free enterprise would not be possible in this country. Now I thought I was there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u94	That gives rise to a question by Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u95	I had asked for a number of recommendations from Professor Boot, for example the proposal to look at people who clearly deserve more than others in similar positions. We normally think that it is false self-employment when there is a low salary, because it is trying to outsmart competition. In this case, it is clear that people are asking for a higher hourly wage, because they are exposed to risks. I think they're self-employed. Another proposal from Professor Boot said that in some cases people do not need contracts at all. That would clarify the Secretary of State and my question was when we are going to see that clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u96	That's right. Many clients and contractors do not need a model agreement. Indeed, it is very often evident entrepreneurship. For example, if you work for individuals or if you have completed assignments, you are an entrepreneur. You provide a quote, you come to do the work and then you leave for the next customer. Very large parts of the independent market can work without a model agreement. This clarification is being worked on. Let me make it clear in the second term how that happens and when it comes. I'm just gonna take a hard look at my officials. It is a good question from Mr Bashir. I find Boat's suggestion about wages above collective agreement interesting. He calls it 50%. That should clearly be part of the investigation. The suggestion is also interesting because it does something at least with the observation that it is both at the top and at the bottom at the moment. To the taste of many, let me not speak for everyone, the possibilities of self-employment at the bottom of the labour market are much greater than expected, because of the replaceability. There are many who have difficulty with that. At the top of the labour market, it is often more difficult than expected, because of the concept of a relationship of authority. These kinds of criteria somehow do something with that, because they differentiate a top and a bottom from each other. This kind of thinking can be very useful to me. I think this should be an absolute part of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u97	We've met the Secretary of State. He has distanced himself from the VVD campaign pot with: "Can Wiebes explain and solve it? Yes, he can." Today, however, we are back in the mode we have been in for a year and a half. In January we will write half a million letters to allzzp'ers, at least to those who have had a VAR. We're gonna do another investigation. We're gonna take another look at what it all looks like. Does the Secretary of State think that after today, with the package ahead and the fact that real measures are being postponed until after the elections, there is sufficient certainty for those 60,000zzp'ers who have lost jobs or is this a way to ensure that we have another debate in two months' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u98	I am not writing out the debates here. However, let one thing be crystal clear. There was uncertainty about fines and post-charges. I am now saying that there are no fines and no charges. The haste that Mr Omtzig has with that framework, which I also find with Mr Van Weyenberg, I could also have. That's how I started. I'd also say, let's fix it. However, it must be operational, it must provide certainty there must be sufficient support for it. That's just a little bit more complicated than something you're setting for a specific date in this year. If we had known everything in advance, we would have already started to tighten up that framework at the beginning of the cabinet period and to devise criteria that make it clear. Now we'll find it on the way. Watch the place and repair, that's what fits here. The security to come during this period, which in any case lasts more than a year, is that there will be no fines and no post-tax. I can't say it any clearer than that: no fines and no post-taxes. There's nothing in the wallet that's going to interfere with normal work as a self-employed person with a client.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u99	This law had two objectives. The first is to fight false self-employment. You don't do that if you generously don't let all the fines and post-charges go through. The second is to provide clarity to zpp'ers about when they are zzp'er and when they are not. This was obviously something that had to be invented in a number of ministries, as we were meant to be. Which of these two goals is achieved to some extent during this cabinet period and has the law succeeded or failed during this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u100	Now we're talking about the law again. The mechanism of ex ante and ex post security is not complete during this cabinet period. We're not here yet. In itself, the abolition of the VAR was almost inevitable. However, we can also see that the instruments we have for this do indeed prevent false self-employment. I am now saying that, of course, we are not going to see the fruits of this period, because it has been put on hold for a while. That's right. That's all true. It's not finished yet. During the repair period it will not affect false self-employment. It is not finished during this cabinet period. I'm gonna stick close to Professor Boot's conclusions. He says: "Find it in advance in a system of security, make sure that you tighten the framework so that you have to do less with model agreements "for a very large majority of thezzp'ers are working those model agreements by the way, but they are not working enough for a more limited group and working on it. I am very happy to follow these recommendations. The fact that we are not yet there is absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u101	A point of order. I do not hear an answer to the first question: did the two key objectives of the law get better or worse during this period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u102	This is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u103	No, Mr. Chairman. Is the false self-employment better than two years ago and is it by definition clearer or less clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u104	With regard to false self-employment and the application of legal standards, there has been a true professionalisation of the Netherlands. A lot's happened. It had also gotten into the forget book with the Tax Administration, as well as with a lot of clients who came to my table to tell me that they wanted to deal with it differently. My answer was they shouldn't send the realzzp'ers home. In the field of bogus self-employment, what has happened is irrevocable. That's on hold right now. In this cabinet period, the great battle will not be struck, with the exception of the people we would all like to pick up here. Under the VAR, the clarity was that clients could never get a fine, but there was absolutely no clarity about how the work framework was put together and who fulfilled and who didn't. Now we are in a situation where there will be no fines and post-taxes, but we are working on a system where there will be more clarity. For a lot of parties that clarity is already there. The model agreements, including for sectors, are on the site. They all came in the end, but the clarity for the last group is not yet there. That is wrong and we need to work on it. The starting points of Mr Omtzigt and myself are the same, but we differ on the amount of time it takes. I share the starting point and ambition with him, but I am convinced that it is almost impossible. We must now provide clarity by not passing fines and post-taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u105	You are ready to answer the questions. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u106	Mr. Chairman. A question has been asked about the connection between tax and civil law, in particular about the concept of the contract of employment, where it was regarded as a curiosity that the concept came from 1907. That is not so strange in our civil law at all, because most of the concepts of our civil law are over 100 years old. A large part of the WW actually dates from the nineteenth century. It's all about how you apply it. When the employment contract was introduced, it was said, on behalf of the government, by the predecessors of Wiebes and me, that the practice might show that, in the fast life of our time, the rules given no longer fit and comply with in every respect. At the time, it was about whether or not waiters and porters would be covered by the law. In other words, in civil law you always have the principles and the application of them have to be in line with these times. This has to do with the objective of labour law and contract law. This is to protect the dependent and thus weaker position of the employee vis-à-vis the employer. Of course, the workers are different from each other. They are educated higher or lower and the economic situation may be different, but at the core it remains a non-equivalent relationship. That's where the big difference is with the entrepreneurs. That is why there are rights and obligations attached to the contract of employment, rights and obligations which are at the heart of labour law, which in fact mean that employers and workers must behave properly. That's what you want from each other in everyday life. That's not the only thing. Other national and international regulations also provide the basis for the applicability and protection offered. I refer to the Working Conditions Act, the Working Time Act, the Occupational Care Act, the Works Council Act, the Collective Labour Act Act, the Unemployment Act, the Disease Act, the WIA, countless ILO Conventions and countless EU directives. In other words, the employment contract law is not a law that you make a few adjustments to. Nor is it a law designed solely to protect workers. That law also provides clarity for employers. The functioning of the social system in the Netherlands is largely determined. This means that what is announced in the letter of 18 November from the Secretary of State, namely that we want to clarify both with the elaboration of the criteria and that we want to address the question of whether these criteria are currently sufficiently in line with what is considered socially desirable, is indeed a major operation. This is without prejudice to the fact that in most cases it is clear to everyone whether or not there is a contract of employment. In most cases there is no doubt about that. In other cases, that doubt can be removed. Then you have a category where there may be doubts about whether or not this is a contract of employment. The Chamber is now looking into that category. That doubt can lead to uncertainty. From the Chamber now comes the question of including the Boat Committee's opinion. I think it is quite clear that this must be done. You can see that the Boot Committee has also tried to improve the connection between civil law on the one hand, and open standards on the other, and the starting point that the circumstances of the case are ultimately decisive, and on the other hand, fiscal law on the other. Under tax law, you want to give as much clarity as possible in advance on whether or not to maintain it. It also shows that the task of the Tax Administration is not simple in this respect. I believe that Mr Omtzigt has rightly pointed that out. This task is certainly not easy when it comes to determining in advance whether or not there is a contract of employment. That is why I understand the advice of working with a number of indicators to provide more certainty. But no system of indicators can provide 100% certainty. I think everyone should acknowledge that. So we are going to investigate this, as Mr Ziengs has asked. We will also consider whether and, if so, how these criteria should be adapted themselves. There is the old principle of protecting people in a dependent position. The contract of employment is used for this purpose. But I think that in that letter of 18 November we indicated that, given that principle, you may ask yourself whether the self-employed professional who can easily negotiate a high rate in a free position is the one you most want to protect through such a contract of employment. He can protect his own position well. In that letter we also indicated that on the other hand, on the basis of the criterion of substitution, at the bottom of the labour market, you might want that protection. The House has also expressed its views on this matter before. I think we have seen this very well in the opinion of the Boot Committee. I have allowed myself to give this introduction. I hope that the Court will also understand that it is not a question of 'doing one criterion'. The operation of the whole system depends on it. Something else is possible, namely to suspend enforcement. The Secretary of State did that. The Chamber will understand that this is possible, but that it is not possible to eliminate large parts of labour law. Because that also depends on the individual rights of people. For example, are you or are you not entitled to unemployment benefit? That is why we cannot apply these criteria in advance. After all, the mandatory nature of the provision relating to contracts of employment precludes it, including the purpose served by it. What does that reconnaissance look like, then? Asks the Chamber. How fast can that be? How does that work? How can we be convinced that all the information that we would like to have comes out of this? Who's getting involved? So that reconnaissance needs to focus on those two main questions. First of all, how do these criteria of the contract of employment work? Can you clarify that? Secondly, if we believe that these criteria themselves need to be adapted, how should we change them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u107	We have seen a lot of examples come by where it sounded very absurd if you had to meet them. I am thinking here of the example that was mentioned at the time, in which someone who was active in construction and still borrowed a piece of tools from the client, was immediately confronted with a situation in which there was an employment relationship. There have also been numerous examples of free replacement. Can the Minister tell us if he's thought about that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u108	Happily, this has been the subject of case law since 1907, but also in recent years. This shows that the judge can very often pierce a simple or ridicul element that is sometimes used in conversations about this legislation. You can see that if such a situation were to arise, the judge would look at the actual circumstances and then be quite capable of assessing whether or not there is a contract of employment. It shows, however, that one simple criterion is not decisive. Therefore, the law has different criteria for determining whether or not an employment contract exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u109	Does the Minister realise that clients are currently afraid that they will soon be used to obtain case law? In many cases, there is no case-law on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u110	No. In many cases, it is crystal clear whether or not there is an employment relationship. I can only agree with the description given by the Secretary of State of the practice that has arisen over the past ten years. Under the regime of the VAR, people were treated as zzp'er in many cases where there was actual employment because there was no enforcement. That is, of course, at the heart of the problem we face. You shouldn't let thezzp'er bleed for that. But the system is not sustainable in its old form. I think everyone agrees on that. He's not in a lack of case law. It's him in an adaptation, a review of what we consider to be an entrepreneur and what we consider to be an employee. It is not the answer that is necessary. What is needed is that clients make the choice whether they work with an entrepreneur or have someone in service, which then applies the right law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u111	Do you wish to commit your second interruption, Mr Ziengs? I see you don't want that. Then the Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u112	Mr Omtzigt asked whether the more institutional aspects, such as the self-employed deduction, should not be included in the discussion. I think it is good to acknowledge that this is a legitimate and legitimate question. It is not for nothing that the Economic and Social Committee, at the request of the Court, looks at the whole system of long-term unemployment and sickness pay, including institutional factors such as the cost difference between employees and self-employed persons. I do not want to include the institutional aspects in this exploration for two reasons. First, we want to complete this exploration quickly, so that she can play a role in the formation. Secondly, we know that there is a political difference in thinking about the self-employed deduction and the cost difference, which could hinder the business discussion needed to move this dossier forward. We also know that the SER is explicitly working on this question and has announced that it will advise on it in spring 2017. It must be clear that we want to speed up this process, and we have also announced this in the letter of 18 November, but Mr Van Weyenberg will also agree with me that before 1 February, there will be real unreality on this point. I want to build that exploration in the way you conduct an interdepartmental policy investigation and therefore involve officials from the different departments. For the sake of formation, the piece may then be there in April and go to the Chamber. Then the parties can make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u113	Mr Omtzigt, this is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u114	Now it's really breaking my clog. There's been an interdepartmental policy investigation intozzp'ers for a long time. The cabinet of VVD and PvdA refused to respond at all. Now, in the same way as an interdepartmental policy investigation, a new investigation is being launched, which is only completed after the elections, so that the VVD and the PvdA do not have to rule together and so that thezzp'ers cannot work in the meantime. Is that about the summary of what I just heard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u115	No. Mrs Schouten asked for the ESC to be included. Since this is the core of contract law, it seems clear to me that social partners and members of the ESC are involved. It is about how the labour market works, when something is an employment relationship, including all consequences, and when not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u116	This investigation is over. A year and a half ago, there was an ibozzp. Over and over again, the Chamber has asked the Cabinet to comment on what it is going to do. Now the Minister says: we are going to do a new investigation, with almost the same assignment and with almost the same stakeholders. That is certainly not ready for the elections, so that these two parties do not have to get out with each other. Just look at each other. If you look at each other now and together...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u117	I suggest you speak through the chairman. I'd be happy to look at you. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u118	If the Minister and the Secretary of State look at each other and just make a deal, like VVD and Labour Party. One says "I can give more certainty in the short term" and the other says "I can give more certainty tozzp'ers with the implementation of Boat's proposals; fine for the VVD." You can't have any more quartets, but I'm still using quartet tickets. The Labour Party can then get "we're better off maintaining false self-employment." Then you book on both objectives of this law progress and meanwhile you put a piece on the formation table, instead of "we're going to write half a million more letters, texts for websites and I know what to write." Why can't that be chosen by this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u119	It is simply not right what Mr Omtzigt is saying here; it is simply not right. In that letter of 18 November, we announced that we would look at the criteria of contract law. This has been in the law since 1907. How do these criteria work? Is it about replaceability and a relationship of authority? Is it time to start applying these criteria in a different way because of the changed social conditions? This has not been dealt with in thezzp report to which Mr Omtzigt refers. If he says the investigation is there, that's not right. It is better, also for good traffic with the Chamber, to take the existing facts into account. Yeah, there's been research onzzp and there's been a reaction from the cabinet. I understand very well that Mr Omtzigt says that more needs to be done. I have also had an exchange of views with the Chamber over the last 48 hours. This is about another matter. This concerns the question of when there is an employment within the meaning of WW. That's an important question. It is a question that must always be dealt with in the light of the circumstances of the case. For this, criteria have been laid down in the law, for 100 years. It is clear from this that it is precisely when determining whether a self-employed person is a fiscal person that criteria can provide sufficient certainty in advance. We're gonna have to look into that. That's a recalibrate, and that's a really different question. I would very much appreciate it if Mr Omtzigt I know that he would acknowledge that from the facts too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u120	No follow-up to the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u121	No, I'm being challenged. Yes, I acknowledge that, and yes, that question of looking at it was put here in the Chamber in September by a motion that was dissuaded by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u122	That could be. You mentioned a report a year and a half ago, and that was not the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u123	Yeah, that could be. The majority of the report was ready and almost the entire opposition of this Chamber asked in September: look at that labour law. If that were done, it'd be done now. The deal is not now made between these two parties and thezzp'ers pay the bill for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u124	Facts. Mr Omtzigt claims that the report has been there for a year and a half. That's not right. He's acknowledged that. He then says: I asked for this in September and it was not until November that the cabinet announced it. That's right. Secondly, it is not true that the report could have been produced in the six weeks between, because it is extremely complex and Mr Omtzigt will also acknowledge it. It is about the functioning of contract law with which our entire social system is linked. That's not something you do in six weeks. It is not something you as a cabinet alone do and it is not just a matter of the Labour Party and the VVD, or any party in this Chamber. It affects social partners, it affects civil society. You don't do that in six weeks. It's not a matter of anything that's already there. That's not true. It's not a matter of doing it in six weeks. That's not true. It has to be done and we are going to do our very best to do it so quickly that it is already there in April. That's gonna be another pagan chore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u125	They're all fine tests. We are going to look at labour law and you name it, but there are now 62,000 people out of work. This Minister of Work should be interested in that. He should say: we are going to solve this before Christmas; it will not happen to me as SZW Minister that those people will soon be under the Christmas tree without knowing how they are going into the new year. This Minister should ask himself that question. Then you can talk about definitions and about 'after the elections' and you name it, but now 62,000 people are going to go 'I don't know if he read yesterday's letter of fire 'in the assistance', with all the problems that have arisen. What's the Minister gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u126	It is precisely because I believe that the practice that has arisen over the past ten years under the VAR should not be unilaterally passed on to thezzp'ers themselves, that I believe it is right that the Secretary of State, along with me, has granted a postponement of enforcement, first until May and then until January. This is necessary to protect people who fall between shore and ship when it comes to the question of whether or not they are employed? It is precisely because of my concern that I support the line put forward by the Secretary of State on behalf of the cabinet. But that is different from the question I received from Mr Omtzigt. He made the suggestion: if you look at labour law, the problem is solved. That's not true. The uncertainty that exists in the intermediate category "Whether or not entrepreneur?', "are you or are you not in employment?" Don't take you away by suddenly magicing with criteria. You take it away by postponing enforcement, as the Secretary of State has done, and by now looking wisely at a review of those criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u127	All the reactions that we get in our mailbox and which we read in the newspaper show that suspending that enforcement is not the right way to get those 62,000 people back on assignments. Companies say: enforcement or not, we have long adapted our policies. A school that used to hire azzp'er as a substitute doesn't do that anymore. Those kids just don't take lessons when they're sick anymore. That zzp'er, that retired teacher who did that as a raid force, is now just sitting behind the geraniums at home. That is the new reality. Then the Minister can say that suspending enforcement is the remedy against all problems, but that does not appear to be the case. Is the Minister prepared to examine whether suspending enforcement is the means for companies to helpzzp'ers back on assignments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u128	Mr Van Dijck is basing his question on a case which, of course, I cannot judge, but which also seems strange to me. In general, teachers are not entrepreneurs and they are simply employed. I think we all agree that this is desirable. Mr Van Dijck now argues on the basis of that case that, by continuing to make this possible, we would solve problems, but I would venture to doubt that. What's going on? After a long period in which a practice that is not sustainable was created under the VAR, because the client was never looked at, the VAR was abolished. Everyone agrees with that in itself, but in the uncertainty that has arisen now, the price is likely to be paid byzzp'ers who can't do much about it. That is why, with my full support, the Secretary of State has decided to postpone that enforcement. We know that's important, just because of the connection. You want security in advance, but in civil law the judge ultimately assesses it according to the circumstances of the case afterwards. In order to improve this connection, we have the advice of the Boot Committee. That could help us with that. We're going to work on that very hard. That's the news from the letter: the recalibrate. We try to ensure that there is in April, so that choices can be made that are better for everyone, both for the client and for the contractor, both for the employee and for the entrepreneur. I think we should follow that road. That is why I do not come to another conclusion on the basis of the case of primary school. We need to be certain of the way in which we organise the process. The Secretary of State will communicate further about this, including towards the self-employed who benefit from a deduction. Next, we must ensure that the practice is in line with the legal reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u129	Of course, the VAR gave clarity to the client. In that respect, I thought it was a good instrument. After all, the client was certain that he would not receive a post-tax or anything else and could assume that there would be no employment contract at that time. That's where the crux is in this discussion. The client doesn't want to give orders, because he's afraid the other will say at some point: now there's a contract of employment. So the client thinks: let's not do that, because I don't want a contract of employment. There's no contract of employment. From a fiscal point of view, it is good that there is no maintenance, but that does not mean anything, because this enforcement only takes into account the fiscal aspects and any post-taxes. It may be that the Tax Administration says: we are not going to rehearse, but there is also no model contract, so some kind of employment contract. The entrepreneur or self-employed person concerned would then suddenly have a contract of employment. Then the client says he doesn't want to, because with an employment contract you have to deal with a transition fee, UWV, sickness money and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u130	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u131	How can we ensure that, at that time when there is no post-tax, there is also some sort of safeguard? You should know for sure that there is no contract of employment afterwards. If we have these criteria clearly, we could do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u132	It starts with Mr Klein's assumption that there could be no contract of employment at the VAR. Of course it isn't. Whether there was and is an employment contract depends on the applicability of the legal framework. You can never rule that out with a tax measure. This was a safeguard of wage taxation, i.e. tax rules and not the presence or absence of such rules. In the case law it was found that this was unjustified. One mailman turned out to be and the other wasn't. It's part of contract law. That's a mandatory right. It's not a choice where you can say, "Today's not a good time." You can't go to a system where you tick that you're not an employee today and tomorrow you are. The legislator has deliberately opted for mandatory law because it is necessary because of the employee's dependent position. This includes duties and rights, both for the employee and for the employer. It was not the case that the VAR was used to determine whether or not there was a contract of employment. That is not the case with the current rules either. You do want to be able to predict as well as possible in advance, also from the Tax Administration, whether something tax will be assessed as an employment contract or not, because that has significant consequences, including for the client. I think that clarity is in the vast majority of cases. I just heard the Secretary of State say that this is the case in 95% of the cases. The client and the contractor then know that there is no employment, but that it is an entrepreneur who does his work as an entrepreneur, including the tax facilities associated with it. There is no such clarity in a limited number of cases. That clarity can come from the judge looking at the circumstances of the case, but because you want to know in advance where you are and because you want to avoid that uncertainty, you can choose to use the model agreement to obtain more certainty. But even then, it's not 100% certainty. You will also have to choose to clarify and perhaps review or modernise the functioning of these criteria. We'll agree that this isn't something your overnight does at once. Yeah, it's complicated. The Tax Administration also has a complicated task, which wants to clarify a civil-law commitment in advance. In most cases that can and will be done, but you have a group where it is not that simple. That has become very clear. It is important not to take the risk that has arisen with it one-sidedly to the zzp'er; hence the postponement of enforcement. I think this is a very big step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u133	You are right when it comes to the employment relationship at the VAR. That was purely about the tax ratio, because you have to pay a wage charge when it comes to payback. That's very clear. In this situation, a contract is necessary to achieve that safeguard. In fact, this is going to be an assessment of the employment relationship. This means that clients say that it is an additional argument, possibly before the court, to prove that there is no employment contract, if that agreement has not been approved by the Tax Administration. We talk all the time about that small group where there is a problem, which makes clients reluctant to give an order to independent entrepreneurs. We don't want any further enforcement of those contracts. Next, the question is how the Minister intends to arrange that people who do not get a model agreement and who have not had a tax are not suddenly employees. After all, they will not get anywhere with it, because the clients still do not dare to give an order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u134	Reassurance is that it doesn't work one way or the other. The abolition of the VAR does not suddenly create service relationships that were not there before. There was an employment or it wasn't there. Service relationships that were there can't suddenly disappear through a VAR or a model agreement. That is precisely the complexity that we are dealing with. The fact that ten years have hardly been maintained and that the VAR has created a practice means that there is an intermediate category. In some cases, you know it's actually an employment relationship and it can't be like that. In other cases, you know that it is an entrepreneurship and that it can be done. And then there's the middle group. I think we all want to choose not to take the risks one-sidedly with thezzp'er/worker. The only solution is to postpone enforcement and, in the meantime, to tackle the most serious cases. We agree on that. The IRS is also motivated to do so. Then you can see how to get more clarity, in full awareness that 100% certainty will never arise. It's never gonna happen. You're not gonna get 100% certainty. You always keep a gray area. There is no way to regulate 100% digitally in our civil law when there is and is not a contract of employment. But it can and it has to be better. We are going to do our utmost to ensure that this happens so quickly that sensible agreements can be reached in April, whoever is at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u135	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u136	I had come to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u137	This will put an end to the government's first term. We can do two things. My proposal is to suspend until 9:00 for dinner break. The alternative is that we now complete the second term, but it will have to be compressed a little bit. We then agree that there will be no interruption and no discussion on motions that have been tabled. The speakers each have one and a half minutes to submit all their motions. I'd like to hear the room's preference. The majority decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u138	Unless that puts the staff of the Chamber in the squeeze, it is my preference to continue. I will keep my term short and concise and only interrupt if there is real uncertainty or if I want to amend something in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u139	Look. Those are the backdoors that are being built in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u140	I fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg, including the concern he expresses about the staff. If that's possible for the employees, I'd like to go on briefly and forcefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u141	Same here. Please continue if possible, but with some possibility of using the back door of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u142	I know my colleagues so slowly, so I am very hard on them. I'm just warning you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u143	If that's possible, I'd like to continue. I think that this is also better for the people who are following this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u144	Support to continue, Mr President, but I would like to hear the staff first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u145	Hahaha. No, it's up to you. A little authority wouldn't hurt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u146	As far as I'm concerned, keep going. It will not be up to me, given the limited speaking time I have left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u147	Keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u148	It is clear that you are unanimous in this. Let's move on. You have a minute and a half before the second term. In order to avoid misunderstandings: any motions must also be submitted within one and a half minutes. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u149	Mr. Chairman. The set-up's been successful. The VVD and the Labour Party are asking for a debate so that further consultations can be held and Secretary of State Wiebes can write half a million letters. And passing, the Secretary of State also points out that the approach to bogus constructions is "on hold." That was the core theme of Minister Asscher. Everything is being neatly lifted over the election. However, this offers too little solace for thezzp'ers. In fact, it is simply an inadequate one for these two directors, who could not come to a solution together in the interests of thezzp'ers. I'm still filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Boot Committee has produced a legally strong report on the assessment of model agreements;]] [[Whereas the Committee has made ten recommendations in this respect which, with the exception of the criterion or activities of the contractor, can be implemented quickly within the core business of the client;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt all recommendations of the Boot Commission, except for the "core business assessment" and the extended lead-in period until 2018, and to introduce them by 1 February 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u150	I said: for the VVD, we ensure clarity, for the Labour Party we ensure some enforcement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that enforcement of the DBA Act has now been postponed from 1 May 2017 to 1 January 2018;]] [[noting that the fight against false self-employment is the aim of the law and is provisionally lacking;]] [[Whereas malicious clients who, in bad faith, leave workers out of employment should not be allowed to work because of the chaos of the DBA Act;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain immediately towards principals acting in bad faith;]] [[also invites the Government to report to the Chamber the initial results of enforcement by 1 February,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u151	Mr. Chairman. I co-signed that last motion. I have four motions, so I'll move on. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the postponement of enforcement of the DBA Act, except for the malicious, still leads to a great deal of uncertainty;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State for Finance to define, in a formal decision, how to implement the DBA Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas delay of enforcement does not provide sufficient security to return orders to self-employed persons and a solution is needed in the short term;]] [[calls on the Government, as a repair measure, to create a "safe zone" by not applying the DBA Act for contracts above a rate of €40 per hour or with a duration of less than 500 hours and to assume that in any event these contracts are not in service,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the approval of model contracts only concerns the absence of an employment relationship;]] [[Whereas this may lead to undesirable patchwork of contracts and service relationships for many self-employed persons;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how self-employed entrepreneurship can be an exception to the wage charge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government is investigating a different interpretation of the concepts of "mandatory relations" and "free replacement";]] [[Considering the urgent need for clarity on a structural solution before clients want to rehirezzp'ers;]] [[calls on the Government to send a letter proposing a different interpretation of the relationship of authority and free replacement to the Chamber by 1 February at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-47]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-48]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-49]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u152	I'm still waiting for the Secretary of State's answer to apologize for that potty VVD campaign movie.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u153	This will undoubtedly be taken into account in the second time. Four motions filed in a minute and a half, I think that's an achievement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u154	It's called rapping, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u155	But then there's music, isn't there? I call Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u156	Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid we're standing here for the umpteenth time. Again: for the PvdA it is extremely important that from now on, preferably from yesterday, orders are simply given by large and small clients. My group considers the letter of 18 November to be clear enough, as well as the definition of malicious. We have seen that there is a great deal of attention to the opinion of the Boot Committee, which has been discussed a lot here. I would like the government to take a serious look at this. Maybe it offers good handles for further recalibrate. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Boat Commission has carried out research into the implementation of the Law on Deregulation Assessment of Industrial Relations (DBA Act);]] [[Whereas the Committee has made ten excellent recommendations to improve the assessment of whether an employment relationship qualifies as an employment relationship;]] [[calls on the Government to involve the recommendations of the Boot Commission in a new assessment framework,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Mei Li Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u157	Mr. Chairman. I do not believe that the rulers are aware that there is no time to waste. I would like to read yesterday's ZZP Nederland fire letter. He warns of a total disaster: 100,000 unemployedzzp'ers. The Secretary of State says he wants peace in the tent, but meanwhile the market dries up and thezzp'ers will be on welfare or, if they are lucky, in a payroll construction. That's what you get when you put together the VVD, who wants to flex everything, and the PvdA, who wants to secure everything, they get a baby called "DBA," the worst out of two worlds. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the DBA Act is counterproductive in practice;]] [[noting that this means that many self-employed people are out of work;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the DBA Act immediately and to revive the VAR;]] [[calls on the Government to seek other targeted solutions to address abuse and bogus self-employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck, Mr De Graaf, Mr Graus and Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u158	Mr. Chairman. The trust has to come back to the clients and the ZP's, so the confidence that they can work together safely again. We can remove the unrest of the past few months by not enforcing the DBA Act. The Secretary of State has just stated once again that he is not going to enforce the law. For the short term, we have a solution that takes away the unrest step by step and gives confidence again. But, as the colleagues in this house have already indicated, we are not there yet. For the long term, we need to come up with a real solution. That is what we find in the adaptation of labour law. That's over 100 years old and not more of this time. Now that clients and ZPs can get back together safely, it is important to take steps to adapt labour law to the present time. The Minister confirmed this in the debate. I thank the Secretary of State for his confirmation that there will be no enforcement until this repair has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u159	Mr. Chairman. According to the Secretary of State, rest is the creed, an uncertain Christmas is the fate of thezzp'er. The Secretary of State is going to explain it all one more time, thezzp'er loses his assignments. We agree that something has to change fundamentally in the long term, but we cannot remain on our hands for the short term. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that as of 1 May 2016 the VAR (employment relationship declaration) has been abolished and model agreements have been introduced instead;]] [[Whereas the introduction of model contracts has led to the loss of contract staff;]] [[Whereas the suspension of enforcement announced by the Secretary of State for Finance does not resolve the confusion and uncertainty surrounding the model agreements in the short term;]] [[believes that as long as an integrated approach to the phenomenon ofzzp'er has not been decided, it is better to take back the not ideal but proven concept of the VAR;]] [[calls on the Government to replace the model agreements with the VAR as soon as possible, taking into account, if possible, the insights gained from the report of the Committee on Model Contract Assessments Act DBA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u160	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the unrest surrounding the DBA Act was caused by a lack of security for clients andzzp'ers;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up clear criteria as soon as possible and, if these criteria are applied, to give advance assurance to economic operators.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u161	My next motion should have been tabled by Mrs. Vos. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to implement the Hamer motion on equal treatment in terms of working conditions for payroll workers and to submit proposals for this by 1 February 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u162	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the issue of the DBA Act is symptomatic of the way in which self-employment is handled. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as stated in Article 16 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, everyone has the right to "free and unhindered entrepreneurship";]] [[Whereas, therefore, everyone must be free to operate as self-employed persons in a proper and free manner;]] [[calls on the government to assess the significance of this European fundamental right against the legal possibilities and limitations to undertake free and unhindered activities in the Netherlands as an independent entrepreneur and to report the outcome of this review to the Lower House before 1 February 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u163	I would be the first to give the floor to the Secretary of State to appreciate the motions and answer a remaining question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u164	Mr. Chairman. For reasons which I have explained, I have to make the motion in part No. 45 dissuaded. As my colleague has made clear, there is a greater path to avoid new uncertainty. I'm sure it's gonna happen, and I've become allergic to it. In the motion in part No. 46 the government is requested to maintain immediately towards principals acting in bad faith. I am a little disappointed by Mr Ommzigt that he now seems to introduce a new definition for my "evident maliciouss" which is not very clear. The enforcement lawyers present in my area didn't even know what this meant. I would very much like to stick to "evidently malicious," as it is now on the site. Anyone can know who they are. I need the motion in part no. 46 and thus dissuade them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u165	I will change the text to "who are obviously acting maliciously." So we will use exactly the same definition. Then I'd like to hear before February 1st whether that's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u166	Does that change the appreciation of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u167	Let's see. It says "instantly." I just need to see if that's feasible. So I can assume that the definition remains exactly the same, but I still have to check the feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u168	Can you take it off in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u169	I'm gonna go check on this. If the definition stays the same, I'm gonna be all over it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u170	There will be a written response before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u171	In the motion in part No. 47 the government is requested to take a formal decision for the Christmastreces. I also found the 2009 play. It is breathtaking that Mr Omtzigt can go back so far in the history of law. That policy decision provided that the information contained in the Wage Tax Handbook has the power of a legal act. This is only different if it is "evidently incorrect', but at the moment the information in the manual is "evidently correct'. This can also be invoked by employers and clients in legal proceedings. That has been reaffirmed here in this Chamber with these words. So that has the power of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u172	Will the motion be in part No. Forty-seven?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u173	I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 47 because it's unnecessary. The motion in part No. 48 is about the safe zone. I explained to Mr Van Weyenberg that I do not think that this safe zone is so safe, because I expect great problems with people on the other side of the fence. If this is the safe zone, then there are also hundreds of thousands and perhaps millions of Dutch people who can claim this and become self-employed as a result of the implementation of this motion, even though they were not yet and did not ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u174	The motion in part No. 48 is therefore dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u175	Yeah, it's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u176	I'm not going to convince the Secretary of State, but I want to say something for the people who are following the debate. Of course, this doesn't mean that if you earn more than €40 per hour, you suddenly become self-employed. It doesn't say that. That's what the Secretary of State makes of it. That's not the intention. These are, of course, people who choose to do so. I'm just saying this before the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u177	In the operative part, "the government requests, as a repair measure, to create a'safe zone' for orders above a rate of €40 per hour or with a duration of less than 500 hours..." That has quite a big impact. In doing so, Mr Van Weyenberg is perhaps proud of one of the most impactful motions on labour law that has been tabled here in recent years. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u178	This is a task, not an employed person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u179	Clear. This is taken into account in the recitals by colleagues. The Secretary of State continues his appreciation. The motion in part No. 48 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u180	Mr Van Weyenberg also asked about my views on the campaign film. It states that communication from the government must be in order at all times. So I'm not gonna say a bad word about that. Apart from that, I also communicate on all kinds of issues via party channels. By the way, I am quite willing to make such a video for the site of D66. The more communication about this, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u181	If you make a mistake, you can always try to save yourself with a quince. It was a nice attempt, but the core was of course that it wasn't right. Impressions were triggered that are incorrect. That is the criticism that has been expressed, and the fact that we first saw a campaign video, even before, for example, we saw a lot of communication to clients. Those are my two criticisms. I don't think I'm the only one in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u182	Communications from the government began on the day the letter went out, not later. On that day, the government sites are provided with the most recent information. I do not communicate to my own party until I have communicated to the Chamber and through the government channels. Mr Van Weyenberg accused me of saying that the law is being postponed. I explained that the DBA Law in speech usage means the combination of security prior to and subsequent enforcement. Not only did I say that at the time, but also in the letter from the cabinet that speech is followed. In this debate, Mr Van Weyenberg alone has followed this speech a number of times. Technically speaking, it is quite right that enforcement has been postponed, but in the use of colloquial speech, we are talking not only here, but in all kinds of areas, sometimes about 'the law'. By this we mean the system of ex ante and ex post security. I think that is perfectly clear. I didn't call in people who didn't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u183	I don't need videos on the CDA site, but there was a huge mistake in the VVD campaign video. At the same time, wrong things were placed on the website of the Tax Administration which were only removed when Mr Van Weyenberg and I asked for it. It was only after a week that they had the correct text. The Wage Tax Handbook has only been modified today, two weeks after the video. The Secretary of State can't think this is a normal way of communicating, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u184	I'm not ashamed of a movie. I just said the information from the government has to be good. That has not been the case for three days. A very diligent employee has tried to preface this in more accessible language. That's the job of the people who work there. He shouldn't have done that in this text. It's been on there for just over three times 24 hours. Then it was removed. This shouldn't have happened, but it has nothing to do with videos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u185	This was all a week and a half after the video. The government has formally not communicated or wrongly communicated, while the VVD was also communicating via campaign channels. Do we now have the State Secretary's opinion on whether communication has been good or bad in recent weeks? That's question one. I will also ask my second question: what arezzp'ers doing in this debate with the Secretary of State for Finance and the Minister for Social Affairs getting jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u186	On the day the letter went out, the government sites are provided with relevant information. The manual was later modified. After all, you don't adapt a manual at once; you had to work on it for a while. There was also a need for further refinement in advance. For three days there has been a slightly different definition on the site. That is wrong, but that is all in the written answers to the Chamber. This should not have happened, but mistakes are sometimes made in the tax administration by people who only seek clarity and the best. That must not happen, but it has been restored.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u187	I suggest you continue with the appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u188	I think I asked a second question, namely: what havezzp'ers progressed today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u189	In the time of the VAR, everyone was in the pitch dark. We now have a system of which Professor Boot, in his independence, finds that this can be further developed into a system that provides clarity in advance. During the period up to 1 January 2018, there will be no enforcement, but it will be developed into a system that gives this clarity even more than it is now, and that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u190	I'm asking you one question. This is a repeat of what happened. I'm just asking a question. At the end of the debate, I ask the Secretary of State, after all the suggestions made here and after all the hints that have been given: what havezzp'ers gotten more clarity today from the cabinet, which will make it easier for them to acquire assignments and get more certainty tomorrow, even if that certainty is negative and means that you are an employee? What progress have we made with the Secretary of State today, apart from very agile answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u191	I can't say it any simpler than this, and that's the ultimate clarity I give. There are in any case until 1 January 2018 no fines and post-charges. That financial risk is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u192	You take the Van Weyenberg motion in part No. Forty-nine under review?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u193	I'll take the motion in part no. Forty-nine under review. It invites the government to examine how self-employment can be an exception to wage taxation. I cannot see the substance of this. This could mean that if you are an entrepreneur for one assignment, you are then for all assignments. I can't do much with this and I have to discourage the motion in this form. The motion is not enforceable in this form. The Minister of SZW will deal with the motions for resolutions on documents Nos. 50 and 51. With regard to the Tony van Dijck motion c.s. in piece No. 52 and the Schouten motion in part No. 53 I explained that we should not go back to the VAR. It is the cause of much of the uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u194	The motions on the documents Nos. 52 and 53 are therefore dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u195	Yes. In the motion in part No. 54 Mr Bashir asked the government to draw up clear criteria as soon as possible and, if these criteria were to be applied, to give advance assurance to entrepreneurs. In my view, that is the policy we have now put in place. If this is the elaboration of the framework in clear criteria, then this is exactly the intention. If I may take the motion that way, I'll leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u196	Opinion on the motion for a resolution (Doc. So 54 is "judge chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u197	It depends on what Mr Bashir's intention is, but this is how I read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u198	It's what we want together, but it's not today's reality. There are no such clear criteria. There is a lot of uncertainty and there is no certainty in advance. I want the Secretary of State to work on this and to think of something to give people security in advance, because if a multinational states that it wants that security in advance, then it will immediately get security in advance, if it complies with laws and regulations. In any case, entrepreneurs also simply comply with laws and regulations. They also want security in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u199	Can you follow the Secretary of State's exegesis so that there can be an opinion "judge chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u200	Of course, for the vast majority ofzzp'ers there is certainty in advance, but we totally agree that there is a grey area, which we do not want. This research, as we speak, now sets out clear criteria for this grey area. If these criteria are applied, entrepreneurs should be able to obtain advance security. If you don't mind me explaining that, it's "judge chamber." There's nothing else I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u201	I see non-verbal consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u202	I am almost disappointed with Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u203	That means that the opinion on the motion in part No. 54 "Judgment Chamber" reads.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u204	The Minister of SZW will make the motions on the documents Nos. Appreciate 55 and 56.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u205	Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his comments and to give the Minister the opportunity to present the remaining motions with an appreciation, including any remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u206	Mr. Chairman. I do not recommend the adoption of the Van Weyenberg/Omtzigt motion for a resolution. 50. I have indicated that this deadline is unrealistic. The motion-Mei Li Vos in part No. 51, I'd like to take over. The recommendations should be included in the new assessment framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u207	Does this have the assent of the Chamber or does anyone wish to vote on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u208	I would like to think a little bit about it, because there are also things in the Boot report, for example about the core business, which my group does not like. I'd rather vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u209	Then it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u210	The motion does not call for the report to be taken over, but for the recommendations to be included in the new assessment framework. That's why I want to take over the motion. I don't want to take her one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u211	If the Minister reads the motion that way, I have no objection to accepting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u212	Then you're at peace taking over the motion. Mrs. Schouten?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u213	Then I have a question in substance. I asked why Boat's recommendations weren't included. Then the Secretary of State said he still had to study them, because it's quite complicated. And now all of a sudden it's okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u214	No, it says here "involve a new assessment framework."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u215	I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u216	Then I'll leave the motion judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u217	This motion has a Chamber of Appeal and will not be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u218	The motion in part No. 55 I must advise against. There's no agreement on that. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u219	The motion in part No. 55 is not recommended. And the motion in part No. We still have 56. Mr Bashir has another question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 55.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u220	The motion in part No. 55 is about an accepted chamber motion. I am curious to see why it is being cut short with the fact that there is no agreement. I'd like to hear an extensive response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u221	I sent a letter to the Chamber on 5 December. I've been responding to it quite extensively for the past 48 hours. That is why I am now full of the clear advice that is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u222	I don't think you guys...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u223	The Chamber has spoken and we would like to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u224	The government has also spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u225	I propose that the motion be submitted to the Chamber. Then it will be put to the vote. Then there is the motion in part No. 56.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u226	I'm gonna have to advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u227	Thank you. Have the cases been dealt with satisfactorily? That's the case. I would like to thank everyone for their contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-45.u228	The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday, with life and well-being. There will be a written explanation of parts and a single motion.
