ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, Members of Parliament are often here to raise abuses in the care of the elderly. This is again the case today. Last Saturday there was an intrusive article in BN DeStem about not delivering enough incontinence material, stomas and catheters. That problem has been raised many times here, but it has still not been resolved. Healthcare insurers meet with suppliers to deliver a number of tools, but suppliers fix that appointment to their boots and deliver less. Imagine, President: someone needs five pieces of incontinence material per day, but only three are then delivered. That is not only very uncomfortable and undesirable, but it is also very unhealthy. The article even tells the story of an 86-year-old woman who may have died as a result. How the hell did this happen? The health insurance provider does not recognise himself in the picture, but the supplier does. What's going on? Does the Minister find this unacceptable? These are people who, encouraged by the cabinet, live longer at home and are repeatedly confronted with opposition. Looks like the only way to get you straight is with a big mouth. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Does the Minister agree with 50PLUS? How does it view the fact that health insurers and suppliers seem to want to make a profit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I agree with 50PLUS that the amount of aid, for incontinence material in this case, should not depend on the assertiveness of the patient receiving that material. We need to get this right. We know these problems in terms of supplies of resources. This always seems to be something absolute, abstract and logistical, but it is about people who experience profound consequences in their daily lives. So that's how we're supposed to look at it. The signals that it's not going any better have led me to take action. I'm gonna go back to the previous cases that happened. ZonMw has conducted a reconnaissance of how things stand now. I sent it to you. This year we started administrative consultations, with everyone around the table. These administrative consultations include three working groups, which have to solve the problems in relation to different tools. In the administrative consultations, the parties expressed their commitment to the objectives and to finding a way of resolving them. At the same time, despite the constructive nature of the administrative consultations, we note that there are still many frictions in the working groups and that it is taking too long. Because it takes too long, the Quality Institute has deployed an acceleration, using its perseverance at this point. The Quality Institute has announced that it will now adopt generic frameworks itself. They'll be ready in December. On the basis of these frameworks, everything could have been implemented and applied in February, so that we would finally be done with this. It is high time that this problem quickly became a thing of the past. In the meantime, of course, I will keep my finger on the wrist and make sure that all this actually happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u3	I appreciate the Minister holding his finger on the wrist. I appreciate her trying to get everyone to work. But I ask the Minister: isn't there something she can do today? I hear again that we will finally see the results in February. February? That's right before the election, Madam Secretary. If I were you, I'd do it today!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u4	I share the impatience. The adoption of directives is always an endless process. What we are doing now is not leaving the process to the parties as has always been done, but taking action ourselves. I have also seen compelling examples in the article. They must be reported to the inspection. I'd like to call on everyone to do that. If it is at the expense of the quality of care, it must be notified at the time of inspection. The inspection checks the care and supervises it. If the quality is below the mark, the inspection will actually address it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u5	Now I find it a little uncomfortable again. You now bounce the ball back to vulnerable people. They have to report something. I have only one question for you: what can you be responsible for today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u6	People are entitled to adequate care. The insurer has a duty of care. That's how we arranged it. In practice, you see that there is a discussion about what is adequate. One says "appropriate is sister" and the other says "appropriate is so." That trajectory just takes me far too long. That is why I said that this must stop. I called in the Quality Institute. That happens very little. The Quality Institute itself took steps towards acceleration at the end of October, in the vein of: okay, this needs to be faster, we adapt the generic frameworks and ensure that they are introduced quickly, in order to put an end to this lengthy discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u7	Indeed, it is a lengthy discussion. In my book published last year I recorded an e-mail from Ingrid, where I would like to recite a little bit. "Fleur, you're gonna get really freaked out here. Now another letter from the health insurance company regarding my incontinence material. The pharmacy can't deliver it anymore. It goes to a company that's gonna have an intake call with you. I've been using good equipment for 20 years. This is what our days are all about. Keeping people working all day. What do you mean, cuts?" But then it turns out it could be worse again. Or she could just give me an indication of how much urine she's losing in cups, cups, cups, I don't know what. That's what it's about: how are people who are incontinent going to report that? Do they have to wring out their incontinence material? The minister says she doesn't want any of this anymore either. Does this mean that every elderly person and every disabled person who has to fill out this kind of disgusting form can simply throw it away?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u8	There are patients who need a lot of incontinence material and people who need less. I am not going to judge that, but I think we should put an end to the discussion, the little ball that is being pegged around all the time, about how much it should be. That is why the Quality Institute uses its power of perseverance to establish the frameworks and ultimately the directive itself. That directive states what we really think is good and adequate care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u9	Second supplementary question, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u10	I do not think that that is a clear answer for a minister who is usually very clear. For example, this type of questionnaire also asks: do you have pain while peeing? That kind of privacy sensitive information doesn't concern anyone at all, not at all if you've had the same incontinence material for 20 years and are satisfied with it. So my very specific question to the Minister is: if disabled people and elderly people have to fill out this kind of bizarre questionnaire for their incontinence material when they do not ask for a different policy at all, can they simply throw away those forms? Is that what this minister stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u11	The Quality Institute is going to take control. It will determine what needs to be delivered and what the duty of care is. I will then ask the NZa to monitor whether this is actually being delivered at the beginning of next year. I will also give the examples mentioned here by Mrs Agema to the Quality Institute. These things are exchanged between the caregiver and the patient. "Do you have pain when peeing" is a normal question for a health care provider to ask, but not for a health care provider. So we need a different system to determine how much material someone needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u12	Let it be absolutely clear: with good care in the Netherlands, the image of rationing of incontinence material for people does not fit. It is therefore a good thing that the perseverance force is going to be used to actually regulate and organise this properly. I heard the minister say that people can go to the inspection in case of complaints. If I'm right, we've got the National Contact Point for that. My question is: in what way is it made clear to all Dutch people that they can go to the National Meldpunt Zorg if this type of complaint occurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u13	We do everything we can to make it known to a lot of people who know how to find that way, too.We know that you can submit complaints about undersized quality of care to the Dutch National Health Service. This does not apply to complaints about what the insurer wants to compensate. Then you should be at the NZa. From the example that Mr Krol quoted in the article, I think that the inspection really needs to know, because the inspection can then look at what happened here as a result of that complaint. That is the task of the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u14	I have heard from the Minister that she is putting the Healthcare Institute, the Quality Institute and the NZa to work. That's all good, but that's a solution in the system. At the same time, I note that older people are very dependent on the care professional to get the care that is needed within the whole system. So my question to the Minister is: how can we strengthen the position of older people in this whole system? As far as I am concerned, the answer should not be: they can call a telephone number. That too is part of the system. How can we make sure that people really get the care they need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u15	What care is needed is very difficult to determine by Mrs Dik-Faber and by me. That is why at the Quality Institute, not only the insurers or only the healthcare providers are at the table, but also the patients. They must determine with each other what adequate care is. I want them to determine that in such a way that a patient can have adequate care in such a way that not all of them are extremely complex systems, but that everyone gets the care they need in a simple, simple way. That's what we agreed on. Incontinence material is in the basic package.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u16	Last year we were here, too. Then we had an example of a lady who stopped going to birthday parties and who stopped seeing her family because she just got too little incontinence material. Now we see the same examples as last year. My question to the Minister is: if we are looking for a simple solution, why not just give the nurse the space to give people the incontinence material they need? Nurse went to college for it. She knows what patients need and she can do it in a good conversation. Why do we need rules and a health care institute for that? Why don't we just let the nurse do her job?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u17	It is also important for the nurse to be able to do her job, but what is good quality care, we put in directives in this country. That's not up to the government, but that's what professionals decide with each other. A lot's been set in motion. This is not only about incontinence material, but also about the other working group, about stomas and other tools. In doing so, I simply want to clarify more quickly the way in which we agree on this. Apparently, the sector just didn't succeed. The sector started working on it this year. It is not a question of years, but in recent months the working groups have failed. That's why the Quality Institute took charge of it. In December it comes with a real outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u18	You'll only be dependent on content material and hearing this, knowing that the indication with a calculator is hand-held to see if you don't get too much. This is done by health insurers who, by the way, make a profit. Next comes a middleman who gives you a little less, because profit has to be made. And then there's a minister who starts from new rules, frameworks and quality standards, because otherwise we don't trust the professional. Doesn't it just show the bankruptcy of the healthcare system that we people who need content and their nurses don't just trust that they do what they need to do? Doesn't it show that we are completely bankrupt that we think people who are incontinent would be asking too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u19	It is reassuring that Mrs Leijten always ends with 'the system'. What matters here is what someone needs and how we make sure someone gets what they need. This can be done very well by the system, because in general it is done very well. There are parts where that happens less. We have to note that the sector itself is not in a position to resolve it. Then, as a government, as we agreed, sometimes you have to draw the direction towards you. That's what we did. We have therefore asked the Quality Institute to give a ruling on this matter in December. The Quality Institute has indicated that it will succeed. Then we will solve these problems. When it is established, we will introduce it, so that everyone gets the care he is entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you.
