ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Those living in the Netherlands do not have to register for elections. This is all a bit more difficult for Dutch people abroad. Every election, they have to register. In itself, it knows its logic. We need to be sure that only voters vote and that the vote comes from the person to whom the ballot was sent. For this purpose, the Dutch government needs an address for sending, with a signature for subsequent verification. Every time that's called in, it's called in. Next thing you know, it's gonna be easier and that registration's gonna be permanent. However, there is still a difference: register yourself to be able to vote or participate automatically. There are countries where this is not necessary: Spaniards living abroad are listed in a permanent register from which the right to vote automatically follows. Norwegians and Sweden moving abroad are automatically registered in a register of voters. What's the difference? What can they do what the Netherlands can't do? Why do we ask for an additional measure for the exercise of the right to vote and, where practical reasons are involved, such as the reliability of address files, in which the difference lies between our country and those other countries? How permanent is permanent electoral registration? A lot of people move multiple times. The farewell of the Netherlands is not always definitive. Think of diplomats or employees of multinationals: one year they work here, the other year there, they live abroad for years and then again in the Netherlands and then go abroad again. Do they have to register as voters every time? Or does the registration relive in the register as soon as the BRP and the non-residents register show that someone has their address abroad again? Anyone wishing to vote from abroad must be present in good time. Registration as a voter, updating address information, objecting, it often has to be all far before the campaign really bursts. What is the government going to do to provide adequate information in good time? Because reaching Dutch abroad doesn't always work well for the government. This was the last time in the Ombudsman's report on the loss of Dutch citizenship. My group is still receiving messages from voters who are getting their voting pass too late or whose filled-in ballots are being lost in international postal services. The e-mailing of the votes already helps. But it could be better. For example, in the opinion accompanying this proposal, the Election Council expects that ballots at large embassies and consulates can increase the turnout. Why doesn't the government want to start? Surely the coalition agreement states that it must be made easier for voters from abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Seven hundred thousand to one million. That is the number of Dutch voters who are estimated to be staying abroad. That is a group that can vote in national elections in the Netherlands, but hardly does. The last Lower House elections resulted in 35,898 votes. That is, of course, incredibly little for a group that is often very involved with the Netherlands and with the politics in the Netherlands, but which, to a large extent due to an extremely impractical process with many administrative obstacles, is not entitled to vote. The fact that they can vote is, moreover, thanks to my predecessors Weisglas and Wiebenga, who made it possible, by way of an initiative proposal, to vote in a letter from the foreign country in 1991. That became law in 1993. The VVD Group is therefore in a tradition of modernising the voting process and the electoral process. The Minister and I met a few weeks ago in my proposal to enable electronic devices in the voting process in the Netherlands. I was then able to observe that the Chamber did not sufficiently support our ambition in this respect. But it is good news that the cabinet is now making a proposal for this group at least to simplify it by allowing permanent registration of non-residents. That should make it easier to get your voice down and to register once that you leave abroad, so that you avoid at least one problem, namely late registration for elections, which is still very common. It's an improvement, but in the end it's not the improvement we're waiting for for this group. As long as we take as a starting point that the voting process in the Netherlands should also be followed by the Dutch electorate abroad, namely the paper process, you will, even if you make it easier to register and even if you can be sent voting modestly by e-mail, keep the problem that you still have to send the paper documents from abroad to the Netherlands. In the end, only a limited number of weeks are available. We are now used to the fact that the mail is no longer delivered every day and that not all mail always arrives, let alone if you have to send your ballot from Timbuktu or Verweggistan. Anyone who has ever sent a postcard from an exotic place to the Netherlands will have noticed that it often arrives around Christmas. This is not so important in the case of a holiday greeting, but in the case of a ballot which must have reached the Netherlands before the count in the Netherlands, it is. That is why the VVD Group believes that Internet votes for this particular group abroad will offer real solace. I have made a proposal for this before, but I delayed the steps a little, because the cabinet indicated that it was not ready to take this step. I am very pleased that the cabinet has indicated that it will take a test in the course of this year with internet votes for Dutch voters abroad. I would like to hear from the Minister what the latest state of affairs is. As has been said, the present proposal is an improvement. Any improvement that makes it easier for Dutch people abroad to cast their votes, which makes their voices count and that can help to increase the shameful number of 35.898 validly cast voices of that crunch of one million people, the VVD Group welcomes. I have three more questions on the proposal before us. What changes in data does a voter have to pass on abroad and not to the city of The Hague? What data does the BRP provide to the municipality of The Hague without the voter having to do anything? In other words, how many possibilities for confusion and misunderstandings remain in the proposed system? Finally, will it succeed in getting the permanent register operational for the upcoming Dutch Parliamentary elections in 2017? I think a lot of people are looking forward to that and looking forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, shocking that the VVD Group finds it acceptable that postcards sent around the summer only arrive around Christmas, but we will discuss this in another debate. I do not think that this debate will go down in history as one of the major parliamentary debates. An e-mail went around to "appreciate it" to a hammer piece, but apparently everyone has come anyway and we have "effe" in the mood. The proposal seems to me to be excellent. Some practical questions have been asked, and I would like to add my heartfelt support. I have been living abroad for a few years and have tried to vote there. I couldn't. You'll have to call consulates and they'll tell you to call the embassy. My voice wasn't counted at the time. Permanent registration certainly makes sense to me. I have the idea that this is just an impression that people who live abroad often move. So there is a lot of movement. It seems to me that this entails a great deal of red tape. The question is indeed whether this is ready in 2017, so that people in the interiors of Africa called Charles van 't Reve this in his columns for the World Broadcasting Agency. I have tabled an amendment to deal with the experimental law on the ballot. That's moving to this bill. The Election Council took a short look at that and made a few notes. Recapitulating: it was my amendment that allowed all parties to submit an electoral list with 80 names and that therefore not only parties that had more than 15 seats in the parliamentary elections could do so. I have slightly modified that amendment. I have specified it, which means that I have indicated that it is only about the elections of the House of Representatives. That was one of the criticisms of the Election Council. And I have stated in the operative part that it is not the duty of parties to list 80 people. That was also one of the things the Election Council wrote. Furthermore, the Election Board states that it is unclear whether there is a need for such an increase in the electoral list. So if there's a party with mine that needs this, there's that need. It is also written that it is perhaps better to do so in the context of abolishing the electoral circle. Yeah, that's a bit wider, that's another discussion that's completely outside today's debate. I understand that Mr Klein is going to gladden us with an initiative proposal which does. Then we'll see. This was the explanation of my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u5	What isn't can still come. It can always be a splashing debate, Mr Bosma. Perhaps Mr Klein can take care of that. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. The proposal to establish permanent registration of non-residents before the elections is an improvement for all Dutch people abroad who wish to participate in the elections. In doing so, the extension of the right to vote for Dutch citizens abroad will actually get a little more content instead of becoming a shambles. We are happy to agree with that. The bill has been amended with the Bosma amendment. It is a good amendment in itself. The Election Council rightly points out in its opinion that this may also be related to the initiative legislative proposal I tabled on the amendment of the Election Act on the abolition of electoral circles. That lies ahead and I hope that this can be discussed before the recess. The point is that it is very wise to give all parties the opportunity to list 80 candidates in the Lower House elections. I established a relationship with abolishing the constituencies, but we'll talk about that later. Today I am asking the Minister what this amendment solves, or that it addresses a non-existent problem. In its opinion on this amendment, the Election Council stated that in the current electoral system with 20 electoral circles, the parties could present to their electorate a large number of candidates using different lists for all these electoral circles. A party with up to 14 seats can place about 1,000 candidates: 50 candidates times 20 electoral circles. Under the current legislation, therefore, there is no list exhaustion at all, because 1,000 candidates per party seems to me sufficient, even for the PVV. There are only 150 seats to be divided. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. This draft law simplifies the registration of Dutch voters abroad. Simplicity also makes it easier for citizens to remain involved in politics and thus also in elections. The CDA Group welcomes this simplification. The voting process must also be optimally accessible to Dutch people abroad. For the Dutch Parliament elections in 2012, more than 35,000 Dutch people were registered as voters abroad. At the last elections to the European Parliament, there were no more than 23 000; that is about 5%. Even among those who have registered, the turnout is below 75%. Mr Taverne has just mentioned something else, but assuming that there are some 500,000 voters living abroad, there is still a world to be won. In the European elections, the exchange of information between Member States is important to prevent voters from voting twice. I ask the Minister what was done during the Dutch Presidency to improve this exchange of information. The CDA Group thanks the Minister for the change in the letter of amendment on 18-year-olds. Even voters who become 18 years old on the day of the vote, that's always a good time to think back. This will allow them to register and vote in good time. I'm going into the performance now. The City of The Hague would like to see more letter voting offices set up in EU countries. This spreads the workload of the letter polling offices and relieves the city of The Hague. The CDA Group would like to know from the Minister whether he is responding to that wish. The reply in the note to the report does not make that quite clear to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u8	The Minister has something to say. That's okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u9	Would Mr Amhaouch repeat the last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u10	Okay. Mr Amhaouch, would you like to repeat the last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u11	The note on the report does not make it quite clear whether there will be more letter polls in the EU rather than just in The Hague. With regard to the time limit, the cabinet strives to have the permanent registration for voters abroad in the Dutch Parliamentary elections in 2017, i.e. in the upcoming elections. That seems difficult to us. The minister writes that this can be done and that the municipality of The Hague is preparing this. What is the state of play now? Does only the city of The Hague still have work to do? Is the registration of non-residents in order? In what elections can Dutch citizens abroad reap the benefits of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend I was at a herring party in Esbeek, near the Dutch-Belgian border. I spoke there with Dutch people who live in Belgium. Those talks once again made it clear to me that this simplification is not a moment too early. One-off registration is a logical choice which reduces red tape for both voters and public authorities. Compliments; all right! I do have a few more questions. In response to questions from the VVD Group, the Minister indicated that only if the bill entered into force on 1 July 2016 will the City of The Hague be able to carry out the permanent registration already before the Dutch Parliamentary Elections of 15 March 2017. Today is June 22nd. In order to achieve this, we in the Lower House should actually be voting already this week, so that the Upper House can also give its opinion on this in good time. Or am I wrong about that? I'd like to get a reaction to this. How does the Minister explain that the website www.voordenfrom abroad.nl, the website of the government, states that registration is only possible from 15 September, while the municipality of The Hague has already opened the registration of people who are not registered in a Dutch municipality? As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the site www.votesfromtheothercountry.nl must be updated quickly. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The 50PLUS Group also believes that as much as possible electronic voting by voters abroad should be possible. It would be huge progress for them if this were possible, for example via DigiD. We have heard from Dutch people abroad that they feel it is cumbersome, unsafe and uncertain that they have to vote by post on paper. When does the Minister expect further concrete steps to be taken as proposed by the VVD? I'm happy with the test that's being done. A small 50,000 Dutch people abroad registered in 2012, while an inventory shows that in the Basic Registration Persons there are half a million people. So only 10% have registered. I read that people will be written to. Is the Minister prepared to make an active and positive reference in this letter to the fact that this law simplifies foreign votes with the aim of increasing the number of votes cast abroad? Is he willing to call for more attention to this change of law through a campaign in media aimed at Dutch residents living abroad, for example BVN? Is the Minister prepared to make it possible that it does not matter which colour pen or pencil is used for a letter voice as long as it is clearly legible? I read that only four colours are allowed now and it would be a pity if a well-readable colour does not belong to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. I didn't have to go to that herring party. I live one kilometer from the Belgian border and I know how important this bill is. In this sense, the draft law that regulates the permanent registration of voters living abroad in the Netherlands does not come too early. It'll put an end to a lot of hassle and rule. Those concerned may register permanently on a one-off basis. That is very good, but the Dutchman must send a copy of his identity card with his letter voice during the elections. That is a matter of concern for the Labour Party, because the permanent register may remain polluted. Changes from the Basic Registration Persons are processed in the Register, but the Government also recognises in the reply to our written questions that there are risks of voting documents being delivered to wrong addresses. Although a copy of a valid identity card must be sent along with it, that system is not waterproof. Does the Minister see any opportunities to improve this? If so, how would he want to do this? Another concern has already been identified by Mr Krol. If you see how few people vote abroad and how many are entitled to vote, I hope the Minister will take up the challenge. Vote is a democratic right after all. I'm hoping for an active campaign from the minister. The documents state very strict that only if the amendment of the law enters into force before 1 July 2016, the municipality of The Hague has sufficient opportunities to be ready in time for the Dutch Parliament elections in March 2017. I have a vague suspicion that the amendment will not be adopted by the First Chamber before 1 July. However, I also read that the municipality is already preparing. So what's the deal now? Is July 1st a hard date and doesn't go on if we don't make that date, or is there some room left? I'd like an answer from the Minister to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u14	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I have found that the Minister can reply immediately. I've always seen him write along very passionately. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. This law is not a very big law, but it is one in a series of laws that we have passed during this period to make it easier to vote abroad. Firstly, the signed registration form had previously to be sent by post. This can now be sent by e-mail. As a result, people who want to register have more time. So this is not about voting itself, but about the registration that precedes voting. Previously, this had to be done by letter. Secondly, you can apply for a replacement letter vote. Thirdly, the experimental law allows people to receive the ballot by e-mail. This can only be done by changing the format of the ballot. On another occasion, we discussed this extensively with each other; I also showed the ballot. It's the type of ballot I'm holding up right now. The hundreds of thousands of voters abroad now receive this type of ballot by e-mail. They are happy with that, too. Experience has shown that this is working out well. It's got a little pitch. I look forward to the vote on this bill; what we already do to hundreds of thousands of citizens abroad, we can try in the Netherlands for some tens of thousands of people in the polling station. If you were to send a larger ballot, you should print something that regular printers cannot handle. These improvements have been made before. The current improvement means that you don't have to register for the election every time. People living abroad who are 18 years of age or older can, by means of a one-off registration, indicate at which elections they want to vote: Second Chamber, European Parliament or consultative referendum. They will then be automatically called upon to vote and to send the documents for each of these elections. In the end, that has to be done by post. The City of The Hague will be responsible for the establishment and maintenance of the permanent registration. It is now also responsible for registration in the individual elections. That is the proposal that is before us, which will further simplify voting abroad. I welcome the broad support in the Chamber. I will try to give a satisfactory answer to the questions that have been asked. Mrs Koşer Kaya says that it has been resolved in a different way in some countries. That's right. We have looked at whether there were other systems, but this proposal is well in line with the Dutch system and with the Dutch laws. It all has to be regulated by law. We thought it would be a good way to solve it. The advisory bodies such as the Election Board agreed. Mrs. Koşer Kaya further asked what happens with many moving. The BRP keeps track of the move in principle and reports it to The Hague, so that it is known there. If someone from abroad comes back to the Netherlands, the registration will of course expire. In fact, people abroad have a privilege by being sent the voting documents by letter. That doesn't happen to residents. They do not receive any letter-voting documents; they simply receive a voting form.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u16	For all those who follow us at a distance I notice that BRP stands for Basic Registration Persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u17	That's right. Thank you for this explanation, Mr President. If someone goes abroad again, he may be able to register again as a voter abroad. You can't make that prettier than it is. The advantage is of course greatest for people who live abroad for a long time. If you go back and forth all the time, registration will have to take place every time. Mr Taverne first asked about the exact state of the test with the Internet votes. We have talked about this before. You could send an e-mail stating your voice. This could also be done in one way or another via a protected website. However, according to the government's belief, technology is not at present capable of meeting all kinds of safety requirements. However, Mr Taverne has rightly and emphatically argued that this can change and that it is therefore good to carry out a test. You all know the difference between a test and an experiment. In an experiment you try something with the voting process, where the result is also valid. In a test you do this in parallel with a valid mood, but this does not count for the result. On 11 March, I informed the Chamber about a reconnaissance of that. A plan of approach for the organisation of that test and agreements on the deployment of Internet voting services is being finalised. The test itself, as I have already informed the Chamber, will be held this year in the final months of the year, i.e. in the period from September to December. As soon as I know exactly what period that will take, I will inform the Chamber in writing. The test will take a few days. The spokesperson of the VVD group asked what data Dutch people must give abroad for registration and which are taken from the Basic Registration Persons. The Dutchman abroad must give himself the following once: his last name, first name, initials, gender, date of birth, address................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This information must therefore be provided on its own. The municipality of The Hague receives from the BRP data changes of persons who appear in the BRP with an address abroad, if they move. Ms Fokke, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Taverne asked whether it would be possible to introduce this before the March 2017 Parliamentary elections. We have done our utmost to keep the theoretical possibility open. However, let us be practical, it is still a change to the Tickets Act. The House of Representatives also wanted to ask questions about this. Suppose the House of Representatives adopts the bill very quickly and the First Chamber agrees to it before the summer recess, then it is feasible. Then it can be valid by 15 September. Six months before the votes, registration can start with the municipality of The Hague. However, I agree with everyone that this is a rather theoretical possibility. It could be. I don't have the Rooms going on. If everyone so wishes, if you vote quickly and if you can convince the First Chamber to do it quickly, it is an attractive opportunity. I'm happy to be a part of it. However, I also know how much people do not appreciate across the street when undue pressure is being exerted. That's why I'm reluctant to express myself. We tried to counter the double vote. I see that I have missed a bit, namely Mr Bosma's amendment. We have discussed this before in another debate, where he initially started it. The bottom line is that I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. I understand the reasoning, too. You used to have big and small parties. For small parties it was actually a bit strange to submit a list of more than 50 candidates. I honestly believe that Mr Bosma's amendment, apart from a practical side, may also have a political message, namely that you cannot know which small party could be very large next time. I'm just trying to keep that from me for a while. The fact is that parties like Leefbaar Nederland, Proud of the Netherlands or the List Pim Fortuyn can be very large and then very small. Parties that have always been very large may also be smaller out of the elections. It seems to me, therefore, that there is no longer a fundamental reason for the difference. I think it would be reasonable for everyone to be allowed to submit a list of 80 candidates. I hope everyone doesn't necessarily, because that makes the form very large. That was also one of the comments of the Election Council. I hope, therefore, for this reason, that it can be resolved by means of the ballot note which I have told you all, because these 80 candidates can be dealt with underneath. As we approach Mr Bosma's amendment so generously, I also hope that he will support this proposal. I leave Mr Bosma's amendment to the House. Mr Klein has indicated that he is still putting forward his proposal on the electoral districts. At the time of its examination, I will give the government's position on this matter. He also supports the proposal now before us, for which he thanked. With regard to the exchange of information, Mr Amhaouch has asked whether we have tried to change the rules when voting for the European Parliament, where people are indeed written both by their country of origin and by the country of residence. The Netherlands prefers that the country of residence is the place where you vote. That is also by far the best way to organize because there you go to the ballot box. However, we do not get much further, because the candidates to be voted on are also the candidates in the country of residence. For example, the French attach great importance to the fact that their citizens, even if they stay in the Netherlands, can vote for a Frenchman. And we can't get through that. The discussions on the electoral act are still under way. We try to find supporters, but for the simplest solution in the Netherlands, there is little support. So then we need a better exchange of information. That is also what we try to enter as a second best option. The European Commission announced that it would organise an expert meeting of electoral experts in September this year to focus on combating double voting. So it's full on the agenda there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u18	Double voting is a possibility, as you also point out in the report. You also clearly state that it is difficult to do anything about it and that double voting is punishable. Has it occurred until today that people have double-voted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u19	I'm sure it happened. Whether or not it has been detected, I would say that this is almost impossible, and I am now looking at my people who know even more about it than I do, because you do not know which voice someone has cast. So you can't break open the ballot boxes to check that again. I do not know whether we can de facto confirm that it has been reported, but it will undoubtedly happen because people receive a ballot from both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u20	Then criminalisation isn't an option either?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u21	No, that's more the point. It was also asked whether there would be more post-voting offices in the other Member States. The government is indeed planning to enter it. By the way, that is a bit different from the proposal before us. Mr Krol asked about the registration. The Hague allows people to say that they are already interested in registration. That's actually how you need to sum it up formally. It will only be considered as registration if there is a legal basis for it. I assume that, if the law arrives in the Official Journal on time, it will be automatically taken up as an application for registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr Bosma is served at his beck and call. The fireworks are still coming. An interruption by Mr Krol of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u23	That is not so bad, Mr President. My question was whether both websites can be coordinated. Now one website refers to the other and there you walk dead. It would be more convenient if one website were brought into line with the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u24	I'll redirect the question to those who manage the website.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u25	With a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u26	With a very positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u27	I would like to return to what the Minister has just said, and I hope that this will remove a possible misunderstanding as regards the choice of Members for the European Parliament. There is now a proposal for a new electoral act, for which I am rapporteur on behalf of the Chamber. In my view, this proposal does not provide for the possibility of decoupling nationality from the right to vote in the country of residence, but perhaps the Minister can help me to understand this better. Can a German resident in the Netherlands vote on the Dutch lists of Dutch candidates during the Dutch elections? Is there any proposal to decouple nationality from participation in national elections to the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u28	We have looked at whether there is a basis for this, but that is not something that is hot. So it is true that this is not part of the package that Mr Taverne is dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u29	If you want to take part in the elections to the European Parliament in the Netherlands and vote for them, do you have to be entitled to vote in the Netherlands? And if you're staying abroad, will you have to do it in the same way as in the Lower House elections by sending your vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u30	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u31	So the Dutch Government is not in favour of abandoning that principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u32	The government has checked whether it would not be better, from the point of view of the European Union, if you just vote in the country where you reside at the time, because that would also prevent double voting. However, there is no support for this, so Mr Taverne does not have to worry about a proposal coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u33	That's clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr Krol asked whether we would like to actively highlight the possibility through a campaign. I will do my best to do this through the channels at our disposal. He also asked what color you can vote with. I think that's legally established, so I don't think I have different options to answer that question. Foreigners do indeed have a little more options in that regard than the voters in the polling room, because there one has to vote with the red pencil there. However, people who vote from abroad by letter do not always have a red pencil at their fingertips, and that is why the law is a little more tolerant in that respect. I think that I have answered all the questions and provided advice on the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u35	Nevertheless, I see that Mrs Koşer Kaya of D66 wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u36	I have two questions. If the Minister can answer that, I don't need a second term. The Minister just indicated that the registration will expire if you live abroad and return to the Netherlands. If you then go back abroad, the registration does not activate itself, because then you have to register again. Can't that be much easier by keeping the first registration sleeping and activating again when someone leaves? After all, one has to go to the municipality to pass on his move. I can imagine that this is easier, especially for people who work for multinationals and embassies, because they often move abroad. Wouldn't my proposal therefore be more practical?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u37	That also requires an administrative act, so in that sense it doesn't matter that much. You don't have to give up a lot to register from abroad. I have just listed what information is needed for this and everyone has it right at hand. Of course, it doesn't matter if there is a very short stay. If someone lives in New York but is in the Netherlands every two weeks, he can choose whether he wants to be registered in the Netherlands or abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u38	I'm making a practical proposal to keep it sleeping so you can activate it again the moment you move again. In this way, you only have to pass it on to the municipality once, namely at the time when you also pass on your move abroad. Could the Minister perhaps reconsider whether this might not be possible directly, but in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u39	I am a little reluctant because I do not want to end this process, but Mrs Koşer Kaya is not referring to it either, so I would be happy to check it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u40	I thank the Minister for his commitment. I have one more question. The Election Council indicated that the turnout could be higher if people could also vote at large embassies and consulates. I haven't had a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u41	That question wasn't asked to me either. I would like to consider the opinion of the Election Board. It is now about the law that makes it possible to register once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u42	Can the Minister take this into account in the answer to my previous question? Then those questions can be answered in one go. Perhaps the Minister could also indicate the time limit within which this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u43	I think it is not unreasonable at this time of the year to send it to the Chamber for the Home Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u44	I've got the troublesome habit of sticking data to it. Shall we say October 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u45	I'm gonna take a look at V-A. I see there's enthusiastic nodding. We are therefore prepared to do so and we are able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u46	So it's gonna be October 1st. I see that Mr Krol has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mr President, while you are poking at dates, I would also like to set a date, namely the moment of vote. If we were to vote on the bill in the Lower House this week, the Upper House could talk about it next week. We're not forcing her to do anything, but it could be. Then the amendment of the law would come into force before the next Lower House elections. That would have helped a lot of people, but I have to ask you, Mr President, if there is any possibility of voting on the bill this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u48	There's two sides to that. First of all, we can also vote on Thursdays every week. There are many in this house who are not in favour of it, but we have heard it. You can also put this as a formal order proposal. Then I'm gonna pulse the reactions and then I'm gonna make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u49	Then I would like to make an order proposal, because we sometimes vote on Thursdays on things that affect far less voters than this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u50	I'm not going to say how I feel about that in this role. Can I know how the other groups feel about the order of business proposed by Mr Krol just now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u51	I think we can wait here, although it is an urgent matter, until Tuesday. I don't think that's gonna affect the treatment in the First Chamber either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u52	So Mr Taverne is against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u53	I think it's fine to do Tuesday. In those few days, it won't change suddenly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u54	So D66 is against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u55	I welcome Mr Krol's proposal, but I think it is good enough for us to vote on it on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u56	So the CDA is against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u57	The Minister said "before the recess." The recess of the First Chamber is later than the recess of the Second Chamber. So we can vote quietly next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr Klein is therefore against Mr Krol's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u59	Since I am always in favour of fewer votes in the estimation and I have already referred to an old motion on this point, it would be very strange if I were to call for a vote on the legislative proposal on Thursday. As far as I'm concerned, we're just voting on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u60	The Labour Party is therefore against Mr Krol's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mr Krol wants to solve a problem that the Minister does not think there is. It used to be: the government rules and the Chamber controls. But this is a weird version of it. I am therefore against Mr Krol's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u62	I'm afraid you're not gonna make it, Mr. Krol. I'm asking the Minister if he was quite ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u63	I thought so. As far as the treatment in the First Chamber is concerned, I would at least like to do the utmost on my part to be helpful if I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u64	Then it helps if you don't push too hard. I call Mrs Fokke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u65	I was very happy that you were going through with the Minister when he didn't quite give me that super-positive answer. I've got the same thing with the campaign. It did come out, in the vein of "I'm going a little more active..." but can the Minister just promise a little more than "I'm going to look at it again"? If you look at the turnout, I think we should be a little more active in making sure that people actually vote when they live abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u66	You're talking about the public information campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u67	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u68	I have made a firm commitment to this, but I need to see which regular channels are open and usable. But I'm sure I'll use it for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u69	You're supposed to show a little more enthusiasm for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u70	I'm trying to do that with my body language.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u71	That's gonna be tricky for the stenographic service again. We have come to the end of the Minister's reply, for which I thank him. I have a feeling the House of Representatives doesn't need a second term. I see that this is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-22-tweedekamer-5.u72	In spite of Mr Krol's proposal, I propose that we vote next Tuesday.
