ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. We have five speakers. The first is Mr Van Gerven, who, like everyone else, has three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. A while ago, we received the proposal to radically reverse the current population survey on cervical cancer. From now on, screening should be carried out by means of a virus test. It was not a subtle change: the population survey would go straight, without a pilot region and without a guarantee. Soon the adversaries and adversaries took advantage of each other. Big news became known at the time that one of the main figures from the committee had shown scientific misconduct. The professor had considerable commercial interests in his own proposal and did not mention it. Anyway, we shouldn't have any conflict of interest. However, when it comes to the health and safety of many women, it is, of course, totally undesirable. The tricky thing is that it is completely unclear what impact this situation has on the reliability of the new population survey. I am therefore very surprised that no serious attempt has ever been made to remove the fundamental doubt as to whether the new proposed population survey is better than the research we have now. Instead, for example, the Health Council already states directly that the facts raised do not affect the opinion at all. Why has there never been a serious response to the criticism voiced by many people, including many analysts? Why, for example, was there no response to the conclusion that in the new form many more people are sent to a gynecologist, which leads to more fear and higher costs? There is also criticism of the sensitivity and specificity of the new tests and it is stated that the classic form better predicts what is going on, fewer people with cancer are missed, this form has a large bycatch in the detection of cervical cancer, the current form is certainly cheaper for the first five years and the current form of population research has never been assessed in the study. It's just asking questions, isn't it? The high costs for the coming years are relevant if we realise that in about ten years' time everything will be different because of the HPV vaccination, the so-called virgin prick. This vaccination leads to a large reduction in cervical cancer if it is okay. If the effectiveness of the population survey is reduced in ten years' time, why should we now switch to a system that is more expensive in the next five years? With so many doubts, we must at least wait for the cost-benefit analysis, which is now being carried out, and take a decision on that basis. The minister wrote earlier that the Netherlands has a good population survey. Then why the rush to introduce something new before there has been a serious evaluation and analysis of what we have? I have a motion on that. Then I come to the research report that the VUMC has shown on the trade and walk of the professor. What is the Minister's opinion on this report? In the report, the VUMC concludes that nothing is really going on. I do not think this is right and there is a conflict of interest. I would like to present a text to the Minister through the President asking him to judge it. This may show that the VUMC's conclusion does not correspond to reality and that it is true that the professor concerned has benefited personally from the public research that has been carried out. I would ask the President to pass that on to the participants in this debate so that they can make an assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u3	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u4	For the clarity of this debate, it may be important to know how the Socialist Party looks at the advice of the Health Council and its role in advising us on population surveys. How does she look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u5	With doubt, and that's the problem. I don't have a final judgment on who's right. That is also extremely difficult. I have read a lot of documents from the Health Council, the comments on them and the criticisms from all over the world. I'm actually in confusion and doubt, because you have to assume that the Health Council will come up with good advice. Because of the conflict of interest of one of the important participants, which is actually a hub in the web, there has been so much doubt that I would like to stop the start of the population research, because it is crucial that it is above all doubt when we take that step. That doubt is still with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u6	In conclusion, Mr De Lange, and through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr Van Gerven says he has doubts, but the Health Council has taken measures in response to the investigations. This has resulted in an opinion that is not based on any involvement whatsoever. How then is it that Mr Van Gerven is still in doubt? Or does he always have doubts at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u8	The Health Council had its verdict ready within four days after that news came out. This does not indicate that everything that has happened has been completely re-examined, that all the studies have been re-examined, that serious attention has been paid to all kinds of critical noises that were present. According to a number of people, in the results of the current population survey, sensitivity, specificity and reliability were underestimated by the Health Council, because the professor concerned provided figures that were later questioned because they concerned old material. That's fundamental, if you compare something existing to something new. My plea is therefore to take place and to do genuinely independent new research in order to clarify it, also in the interests of the many women who will soon have to go to that population survey. If there is any doubt about the usefulness and soundness of a population survey, it will also be at the expense of the turnout. We've seen that in several discussions. I would remind you of the effect of the discussion on virgin prick, the HPV vaccination, on the participation of young people and the decision whether or not to take them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u9	You're 40 seconds past your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u10	This was my final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u11	That's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u12	Mr. Chairman. We can be proud in the Netherlands of the way in which we conduct our population surveys and the vaccination policy has taken shape. RIVM and the Health Council play an important role in advising on this issue. Now that the test used in the detection of prestages of cervical cancer is replaced by a test that is perceived by many women as much more friendly and which increases the chance of participation, there has been discussion about the advice given by the Health Council. Fortunately, the Minister had the scientific quality and reliability of the opinion examined immediately after this discussion arose. Following that examination, it was found that the conclusions of the Health Council could remain valid. In addition, the Minister immediately took steps to further ensure the reliability and independence of the Health Council. We were very happy about that. The Labour Party currently has no reason to question existing policies and does not want to deviate from them. It only hopes that further steps will be taken as soon as possible. That was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u13	I see that Mr Van Gerven wishes to ask you another question. Please stand still.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u14	The discussion on the design of public research and the entanglement of interests with the professor concerned has not been pushed forward. He's still here. Does the Labour Party not agree that this will put pressure on the usefulness of this population survey and the participation of women in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u15	As long as we continue to have this kind of discussion in the Chamber, this will increasingly be the case. Mr Van Gerven is therefore himself contributing to this. Moreover, I believe that the debate has been pushed forward. When this took place, the Minister immediately had the conclusions examined. They stayed the same. It has also taken measures in the area of the independence of the opinions of the Health Council. They were independent, but that independence could be improved, and the minister improved it. In our opinion, that is the end of the matter, if only because there are no 150 pathologists or analysts in the Chamber. You're a general practitioner, but you're not an expert in this field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u16	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u17	The Chamber is therefore dependent on the advice of the Health Council, and as far as I am concerned it remains so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u18	It's a weird thing. Four days after the Minister asked, the Health Council responded. It seems to me that a thorough review takes much and much more time. If you want independent third parties to look at this, it will take even more time. I note that this has not happened. In addition, there is still a discussion on this issue. We agreed that a cost-benefit analysis would be carried out, but the results are not yet known. Isn't it wise not to throw away the old shoes before we have new ones? Isn't it better to wait for the cost-benefit analysis and then look at what's wise: to re-examine, or to continue with the population survey new style?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u19	No, because that really takes a lot of time and all this time women are still being investigated in the old way while they can be offered a better research. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u20	Mr. Chairman. I must say that I have also stood up for the dilemmas and considerations that Mrs Wolbert has just described. I don't know anything about viruses, a cytological investigation, or how to conduct a population survey. I also think that we should keep away from that. We have bodies that advise us and the Minister on this. There was already disagreement about this population survey before it came into conflict of interest. Of course, we can see if you have to do a population survey that you don't quite know if it's going to produce what you want to get out of. That is why I agree with Mr Van Gerven's questions, because I, too, have received these e-mails from pathologists and analysts, who are wondering whether you are carrying out that population survey, or in fact I have to say the intensification of the population survey, because the HPV virus is now being tested completely, while you will have to deal with women who have all been vaccinated against the HPV virus within a fairly short period of time. I am therefore happy to support this question and I would like to hear a response from the Minister. The same applies to the question that has been raised before. The Health Council says one thing, another says another. I think it is very important that we take our advisory bodies very seriously. At this time we have to reverse every euro in care and I am also looking at it. Does the Minister consider enlargement to be temporary until all those HPV intentions start doing their job? How does she imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u21	Our line is the same: we look at the Health Council, because the experts are there and not here in the Chamber. The Health Council has not advised for nothing as he has done. I wonder why Mrs Dijkstra is suddenly questioning the decision-making of the Health Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u22	It's not about the decision-making of the Health Council, it's about the considerations you have to make. Of course, the Health Council looks very closely at what you can achieve with such a population survey. The figures show that 75 additional cases can be detected, allowing you to statistically detect 18 deaths. That is all very important; I fully agree with that. But I also have the other side, namely that we are actually doing two things at the same time right now. On the one hand, we have the vaccinations against the HPV virus, which should eventually lead to this virus not being present. But on the other hand, we have a population survey, which at that very moment has its great effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u23	Are you suggesting an additional cost-effectiveness study?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u24	An additional cost-effectiveness study is being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u25	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u26	The Minister is not waiting and she will have her reasons, but I would like to know about her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u27	Then I understand what Mrs. Dijkstra is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u28	That's good. You're ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u29	I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u30	Mr. Chairman. I quote: "If you can avoid ever having to go through hell I've gone through, you have to seize that opportunity with both hands." This is a statement from Marijke, who, fortunately, has recovered. 50,000 women between the ages of 30 and 60 years of age are subject to yearly screening of HPV virus. Every year, 700 women get cervical cancer. It is therefore important for women to be tested and young women to be vaccinated. It is now apparent that the renewed population survey will prevent cervical cancer among another 75 women and there will be a decrease in 18 deaths per year. The urgency of this is underlined by recent figures showing that 8% of women are HPV positive. This percentage is higher than the Health Council assumed five years ago. RIVM has asked the Erasmus Medical Centre to prepare a further cost impact analysis. Well, that does raise the following questions. How will the results of this study affect the planned introduction of the new test as of 1 January 2017? How is it ensured that all stakeholders are involved in and understand the design and results of this research? The VVD sees it as a profit that the population survey is expanded with the possibility of a self-collection test that can be done at home. That helps to reach more women, and that's what it's all about. I have one more question about that. This test will now be available for women who choose not to go to the GP for any reason. When will this test be suitable for all women at the first screening? The Second Chamber should not sit on the doctor's chair. It is therefore crucial that we can rely on independent and unbiased advice from the Health Council. Even the appearance of conflict of interest does not belong in that. All interests must be clear, transparent and transparent. It is good that measures have actually been taken around the commotion that led to this debate. The VVD supports the additional security built in by the Health Council, such as using experts, but placing it at a distance in the final judgment. Society must be able to build on the advice of the Health Council. It is not appropriate for us to create permanent doubt in this house, I say in the direction of Mr Van Gerven. For the health of all women in the Netherlands, it is of the utmost importance that the successful population surveys on cervical cancer continue and that improvements are used to reach an even larger group. I'd like to repeat that to Marijke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u31	Mr De Lange says that it is extremely important for researchers to be independent. How does he judge the research VUmc has done to the professor concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u32	A committee looked into that. I'm not a researcher and I haven't read those pieces; I haven't looked through those hundreds of scientific reports. There was a committee for that and it has investigated it. The conclusion was that one publication raised doubts because it did not mention where a particular interest existed. I have taken note of that conclusion. It's good that this has been investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u33	I notice it was the butcher who approved his own professor, so to speak. The Committee's thesis was: if the personal interest is not demonstrated or is not visible, but there is a potential conflict of interest, a appearance of conflict of interest does not need to be reported. What does the VVD think of that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u34	First of all, I think it is a complicated thesis. In general, I can say that you can look at things in two ways. You can look at a puddle of water and say, "That's a puddle of water." You can also look at a pool of water, throw a bite of sand in it and yell: you see, it's cloudy. I have the impression that it is the way in which Mr Van Gerven looks at this and doubts are expressed. This has been investigated in an expert way and a conclusion has been reached. We need to know about that investigation. It's good that this happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u35	It would be good if Mr De Lange read the article in NRC again. Maybe the VVD can come back to this in second term. In that article the theorem is really criticised and not by the first the best people. They find the way in which VU interprets the conflict of interest, whether or not to report it and whether or not it is permitted to do so, a very strange way of setting the standard. That doesn't really fit in with the way we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u36	I'll take a look at the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u37	You are advised to read an article. You can say you're gonna read it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u38	I have, of course, read the article in preparation for this debate. However, Mr Van Gerven is taking on a new source to express doubts about it. We then have a chain of doubts, when we ask these kinds of organisations to investigate that. Then there's clarity. In the end, it's about your personal judgment. I believe that things have been sufficiently sorted out and that it is time not to continue to cause permanent doubt, but ultimately to have confidence in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u39	Mr. Chairman. The Health Council is one of the main advisory bodies for public health and health research policy. It is therefore very important that the independence of this institution is beyond any doubt. The CDA therefore commends the proactive attitude of the Health Council to take measures in response to the commotion surrounding the population research into cervical cancer. However, the damage has already been done and confidence has already been damaged. In the past year, the Minister has indicated several times that she was going to continue the tender. However, she has also had to return to her footsteps several times. I still have two questions about that. Why did it not postpone the tender until all investigations have been completed? Why has it decided to continue as of 2017 while the Erasmus Medical Centre is still investigating cost-effectiveness? The Health Council has therefore taken sensible steps, but also the Minister has means to prevent conflicts of interest and to make any conflict of interest more transparent. To this end, the Minister finances the Transparency Register for Healthcare, in which the financial relationships between healthcare providers and companies need to be made clear. That transparency register is an initiative that has once emerged from the Lower House. It's a good initiative. However, the CDA wonders whether this instrument of a transparency register is being used effectively. I have two questions for the Minister. Is it true, for example, that the money that doctors receive when they act as consultants for a major clinical trial is not included in the register, whereas there are very close links between that pharmaceutical company and the doctor? Shouldn't the Care Transparency Register be extended to cover all relationships between BIG-registered healthcare providers? I would like to mention several nursing companies in this context. You can see V&VN now, but certain other professions are not yet involved. The Minister indicated that she wants all financial links between the medical equipment industry and the doctors to be included in that register as of 2016. She said that this should be published for the first time around April 2016. It is now April 2016. Has this planning been made? Can the Minister confirm that the transparency register for tools is now also up-to-date? After all, this remains a very important tool for understanding the interests of doctors and nurses. I must also say that I regularly look at the Transparency Register of Care in order to also understand the interlinkages between, for example, the pharmaceutical industry and certain professors. That's incredibly interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u40	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands we have a good population survey on cervical cancer. Around 800 women are diagnosed with cervical cancer every year. Every year, about 200 women die of cervical cancer. Those numbers are relatively low, precisely because we have a good population survey. Without this population survey, there would be about 175 more deaths every year. A timely detection of cervical cancer, and especially of its pre-stages, allows for treatment. 80% to 90% of women diagnosed with cervical cancer or pre-stages are cured. The current population survey has been carried out since 1967. In the course of time, however, adjustments have been made. Every year, 750,000 women aged between 30 and 60 are called in. They are invited to participate every five years. About two thirds of women use this. I think it is important that we offer women the best possible population survey, which takes account of the latest developments. In 2011, the Health Council advised on a renewal of the population survey on cervical cancer. So we cannot say that we are going to have ice in one night; it is now five years later. This innovation brings more health benefits and is less burdensome for women. I therefore asked RIVM to carry out this innovation. This one consists of a different kind of investigation. We are going to test for the presence of the virus instead of conducting research into the prestages of cancer, in cells in the smear. Women therefore need to participate less often in the population survey. In addition, there is the new possibility that women take the test at home instead of at the GP. In concrete terms, the benefits of this are that more health benefits are achieved. Each year about 75 additional cases of cervical cancer and 18 additional deaths are prevented. Women also need to be examined less often. The accessibility of the population survey improves because women who have difficulty in making a swab are given the opportunity to take their own material. In order to carry out the renewal, RIVM has carried out a large number of activities with all interested parties. Part of this is three calls for tenders: one for the test, one for the self-collection test and the other for the execution by laboratories. Around the summer of last year there was a lot of discussion about the opinion of the Health Council. The press pointed to a doctor's conflict of interest, with possible consequences for the population research into cervical cancer. As pointed out by a number of Members, I asked the Health Council to examine in detail whether this had affected its opinion on the renewal of the population survey on cervical cancer, and to see if this was a reason to change its working methods. The Health Council informed me of this in writing. In short, leaving out Mr Meijer's research would not have led to another opinion. The Health Council has modified its methods. I informed the Chamber on 23 June and 28 October last year. Meanwhile, RIVM has made good progress in preparing for the introduction of the renewed population survey. The calls for tenders that are needed for this are also progressing steadily. The new population survey will therefore be offered to all women from 1 January. However, the Health Council has taken a careful look at what is being done to prevent conflicts of interest and to ensure that this is clear and transparent. Let us be quite honest: some expertise is present with someone. That person may have all kinds of interests, but he has so much expertise, you want to consult him anyway. However, you need to know what those interests are. You may ask whether someone who has interests should be on a permanent advisory committee or whether you should consult them as an external expert. The latter, of course, is much more obvious. The Health Council already had strict procedures and a code, but in response to that case it formulated stricter principles, with experts who have a financial or business involvement in the subject being placed more at a distance. I think it is very important that this has happened. The new working methods of the Health Council apply to committees composed from 1 November 2015. Mr Van Gerven asks me if I can have an opinion on the research carried out by the VUmc on Mr Meijer's conflict of interest. I believe that this is a task of the VUmc and that scientists should take a scientific approach to each other. I don't think that's a debate that belongs here. I do not feel any need for this debate to take place. I think scientists should do that among themselves. They should take each other's measure on questions like: is the investigation well done? How else could it be? Where are there gaps? Where didn't things go well? The Governing Board carried out that examination and drew its own conclusions. I'll leave that with the VUmc. A number of spokesmen asked why I did not wait for this cost-benefit analysis before taking a decision on its implementation. The tricky thing is, for that cost-benefit analysis, you're gonna need some parameters that you don't have. So you can't switch it all serially unless you say: we are also willing to wait much longer. However, I do not think that the costs and benefits I see now give rise to this. If you postpone something and if, according to the data we have now, a lot more women are missed, with all the consequences of that, then I think it is quite a responsibility. That's why I said, no, I'm not waiting. I see that the invitations to tender for the HPV test and the self-collection test have resulted in a lower price than was previously estimated. I also see that more women with HPV infection can lead to more follow-up studies and possibly more references. Then these are opposite effects and they will partly eliminate each other. The only way to complete the cost-benefit analysis is to ensure that the parameters of implementation - prices, the new directive - are known. That's why it went in the order in which it went. Ideally, you do that first and then you make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u41	The Minister's speech does not sound credible to me. Of course, you can also have a cost-effectiveness study done, as is happening now, and yet say: we do not yet introduce new styles of population research and, when the cost-effectiveness analysis is in place, we will have another look at what we are doing. I would like to return to the Minister's previous point. She said, "I have no judgment on the VUmc investigation." That's not gonna happen to me. I have handed over a document to the Minister through the President, which highlights possible facts which are not in line with the VUmc report. I am now talking about the statement 'that's what I want to ask the Minister of the former President of the Health Council, Jan Sixma. He has studied the report and says the following. "The Committee's reasoning is: if a scientist doesn't make direct financial progress, he doesn't have to report an interest." That is not the view of previous studies or committees or of scientific journals. They want you to report everything. It's not my point of view either. What is the Minister's position?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u42	My point of view is that a scientist who has interests that can interfere with an investigation should not be a member of an advisory committee, but that you should hear him or her as an expert. This is also the new, adapted policy of the Health Council, as a result of this case, if those interests can interfere. I can imagine the Health Council saying: yes, but we want to take advantage of the knowledge that is present with that person. That's possible, but why do you have to make someone a member of a committee? You can also hear him or her as an expert once or maybe even several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u43	This is something else, namely scientific publications. I want the Minister's opinion on the following. The VUmc Committee, which has examined its own professor, states that an interest does not need to be reported as a personal benefit has not been demonstrated. That's very unscientific. It's hard to prove interests. The point is that the appearance of conflict of interest must be avoided. Each scientific publication must state an interest or the fact that someone has worked for a manufacturer. Isn't that the most scientificly pure thing? Shouldn't the Minister share this point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u44	I leave the VUmc's assessment of its own research at VUmc. I am concerned that we should be able to assume that the opinions of the Health Council are independent and objective. The best experts have been able to think about these opinions. If the experts have interests, they must be heard externally and cannot be members of the committee. We are talking about a report by the Health Council on a population survey on which I base my policy. It is very important that I have clear rules for the Health Council. It must be clear who, when, is involved. Those rules have been tightened up and I am very comfortable with that. I think that's important. The Health Council must be an institution on which we as a Chamber, as politicians can trust. We're not experts. The Health Council advises one on a HPV test and the other on a vaccine. We don't have that knowledge here. We must be able to count on the Health Council to give us good advice. It is therefore a good thing that we have tightened the rules. As a result of the article in the NRC, I also asked the Health Council to look at it again: what do you think of this knowledge of the input of this expert? The Health Council reports back to me on that. It must be an institution which we say we did not set up for nothing; there are independent experts in it. If we do not go there, we should not give them that role either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u45	Very good. The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u46	Of course, Mr Van Gerven is right that you can do everything in a row. However, you do need a number of parameters that allow you to assess the costs and benefits. It's kind of the chicken or the egg. If you're going to tender, you know you're going to enter the test. Then you've made that decision, because otherwise you're not going to tender. You have to know the cost of the tender in order to make the cost-benefit analysis. It is a very real problem. There have been assessments, but we will hear what the costs are in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u47	A cost-benefit analysis involves two things. First of all, it's about the price. The Minister has a point. If you tender, you can make an estimate, but then you don't know exactly what the price is. Secondly, of course, it is also about the quality of research. The professor was a spider in the research web. Sensitivity and specificity, so the quality of current cervical cancer research would have been underestimated. If that's true, you'll get a completely different equation. The criticism that is frequently expressed is that the old system is presented worse than it really is. This leads to a completely different cost-benefit analysis both in terms of the figures mentioned by the Minister and in terms of potentially won women's lives. That is, of course, at the heart of the debate. However, it is also a question of costs. If the current population survey is much more effective, it is also relevant to the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u48	I still think we should be very secure in population surveys. If we constantly raise or question things, it also has an effect in society, on the basis of support and on the confidence that women have in such research. That's why, based on all the publicity in the NRC about conflict of interest, I went back to the Health Council. He has reported to me that he is sticking to his conclusions and believes that those conclusions are valid. It's an institution we set up with each other. We have to rely on the results of this and I do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u49	Now attempts are being made to put the messenger of certain news on the verge of any deterioration of participation in a population survey, because it would cause constant doubt. At least that's not my intention. I am merely expressing the part of the scientific field that says that it is not convinced that the new system is better. I am concerned that we have done everything, everything, to ensure that at least it has not been the preliminary investigation, that everything has been properly analysed, adjusted and weighed. I don't think everything has been properly analyzed, adjusted and weighed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u51	For that reason, we should say that, in order to remove any doubt, we should have a new independent investigation so that that doubt can really be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u52	I got the research I believe in 2011. That was five years ago. So we're not in such a hurry. It's not like I blame the messenger. The NRC had a point. Based on legitimate questions, I decided that I couldn't just continue as if there was nothing going on, that I had to go back to the Health Council with these new facts to ask him to advise me again on what to do with this. That's what the Health Council did. He advised me the way he did. In the division of roles in which we relate to each other in the system, I take this advice as a starting point for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u53	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u54	Based on assumptions, the RIVM's cervix cancer programme committee calculated that the number of women referred to the gynecologist increases from about 8,000 to about 19,000. That's a really big increase. Both pathologists and gynecologists are represented on this committee. The higher number of referrals has a number of causes. More women than expected are infected with HPV. In addition, women are previously tracked down and more women participate, as the self-take-off set is deployed. More referrals are expected in this group of women. If, after five years, all participating women are covered by the renewed population survey, the number of referrals falls to more than 15,000 because women are less invited and because more women with abnormalities have been detected in the first round. Taking into account the improvements made by the renewed population survey, I find the increase in the number of referrals acceptable. The IMPROVE study has already started and is ready in early 2017. The results are expected to be published during the first half of 2017. This study is important to determine whether the HPV test can be performed as reliably with a self-collection test as with a swab by the general practitioner. When the answer is positive, I say in reply to Mr De Lange, the self-take test can be presented as a primary test for all women. The research is carried out jointly by researchers from VUmc, Erasmus MC and Radboudumc. The Health Council assessed the research design and advised positively on the design of the study. I am familiar with the letter from five pathologists to the researchers, in which they write that they have methodological objections to the study. I assume that the researchers will give an answer to this. The IMPROVE study is now ongoing and will be reported in 2017. Then the further scientific assessment of the results of the research will also be carried out. The self-collection test is therefore only used in women who do not respond to the first call and who wish to make use of a self-collection set in case of a reminder. Mrs Dijkstra asked if we should do all this because we are vaccination. The first vaccinated girls are now 19 years old and women from 30 years of age are screened. So there's 11 years in between. That is still a very strong period. In the meantime, I think it is important, if possible, to improve such a population survey. I was asked if I see the test as temporary. No, I don't. I do think that we should continue to follow the test carefully and adapt the method to possible developments. Mr De Lange asked how the results of the study would be effective. The results are mainly intended to reflect the implementation consequences. This will allow adjustments to be made. Interested parties were asked how they would be involved. Those concerned can make their contribution through the RIVM programme committee. These include pathologists, medical microbiologists, gynecologists, general practitioners, analysts, medical assistants and patient association Olijd. I believe that I have answered all the questions, except those concerning the Transparency Register. I do not have the answers to those questions ready and I did not take the people who did, because we are really talking about the population survey. So I think we can take those three questions in a month's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u55	It seems to me that they fall outside the subject of the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u56	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u57	At least I saw a connection, because this is partly about conflict of interest and the Transparency Register sees it. I would ask the Minister to send the letter within a week or two, because we can involve him in the bill of grace. I would therefore ask the Minister not to answer the questions in a wipe-out letter, but at least to send a reply in a week or two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u58	I can do that. Then Mrs Bruins Slot gets the answers a little later, because she gets the month letter earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u59	Well, if that's the way it is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u60	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u61	Oh, that was a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u62	The month's letter arrives pretty soon. Both letters will then come in parallel. I don't know if I'll bring them up, but at least I'll make sure there'll be answers to these three questions in a week or two. They're not complicated either, but I don't want to answer those questions a little bit from the loose wrist if I can't check if the answers are correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u63	I'm fine with it. I can use those answers again to deal with the bill favor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u64	Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful. I see that there is a need for a second term. I call Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u65	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are continuing doubts as to the effectiveness and effectiveness of the new design of the population survey on cervical cancer;]] [[calls on the government to wait for a new style of cervical cancer research and the outcome of the cost-benefit analysis currently being carried out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the research carried out by the VUmc on the scientific integrity and possible conflict of interest of professor, as mentioned in the NRC article, on the population survey cervical cancer has produced an unsatisfactory report;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an independent investigation by the Health Care Inspectorate into the conflict of interest and scientific integrity of the professor concerned in relation to the population survey cervical cancer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-98]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u66	I have a point of order. Mr Van Gerven chose not to mention the name in full in his motion. I don't think that's right. The name's just public. If we do not give full names, it always has to do with a criminal investigation. I'd really like to stay far away from that haze. So I think it's better to just say the name.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u67	We all know who this is about. We did not mention the name in the debate either. I prefer not to mention the name. I don't think it matters anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u68	Mr De Lange has a point, but it is better to describe the professor mentioned in the article, as you did in the motion. You referred to the article. I find this discussion a little uncomfortable. We shouldn't file motions about individuals. I don't think that's fancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u69	Yes. Mr President, this is, of course, a general report. The reason is an individual; I understand that. However, it is also the point made by the committee. That is what I said in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u70	I understand all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u71	Okay. Then I will describe it in a different way in the motion, namely: the professor, as mentioned in the NRC article.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u72	Okay, you've changed the motion. We shall put her to the vote in this way. I call Mrs Wolbert. It shall waive a second-term contribution. The same applies to Mrs Dijkstra and Mr De Lange. Mrs. Bruins Slot doesn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u73	Mr. Chairman. The Minister gave clear answers and a clear explanation. The letter on the Transparency Register will be sent to the CDA in two weeks, or earlier; that would be even better. After the Minister explained the cost-effective home research of Erasmus MC, I have another follow-up question. The Minister says that she would prefer to have this cost-effectiveness study done first, so that it is clear, before going to tender and taking next steps. I can see that. So there is now a reverse order. Is this way determined in the character of population surveys? Or has this been done by the chosen order of the contracting and all other matters? The CDA also prefers to conduct a cost-effectiveness study before taking any further decisions. The second point is that we are still waiting for the results of the cost-effectiveness study. This may be that cost-effectiveness is not so positive. What impact does this have on the steps taken by the Minister for Public Procurement and on the follow-up of public research?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u74	So much for the second term of office. Can the Minister answer yet? The motion is coming to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u75	Mr. Chairman. The first motion I wish to dissuade. Mr Van Gerven asked for a pass to be made. We've been delayed a lot. I think it is not without obligation to postpone it, because there are also costs involved. It is then a question of costs because we are missing more people and the delay of a new population survey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u76	If the cost-benefit analysis is negative, what will the Minister do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u77	That is also the question that Mrs Bruins Slot asked. We did not choose to do the tender later. You first need the tender to know how much money you lost on, for example, the tests. You also need the directive on the implementation of the professions. Without this input, there is insufficient visibility of costs and benefits. We already know quite a few things. It is very unlikely that this analysis will be very negative. Since we've come this far, we don't expect this to turn out any different. We therefore want to continue the preparation, which is in full swing, and move on to a new population survey, also on the advice of our advisory bodies. The second motion calls for an independent investigation by the inspection of the investigation already carried out by the VUmc. I'd like to discourage this motion. We've been using the inspection for so many things. We can get this done again, but I think we should leave this with science.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u78	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u79	I think I have also answered Mrs Bruins Slot's question. We need to know the directive and all kinds of parameters before we can give it to the Erasmus MC. We needed these parameters and ultimately we will get the research results from the Erasmus MC, although we already know a lot about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u80	I thank the Minister for this answer. Is there any possibility that in future it could be done in the desired order? The desired order is that you first collect the data, then perform the cost-benefit analysis and then tender the research. Now I hear the Minister say that it is likely to be positive. What do you do when it's the other way around?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u81	I'd rather not, but you won't be surprised. I would prefer to have as much information as possible before a decision is taken. This is the other way around. I don't think that's a route to choose. It's not gonna do me any good if we hit it. Some population surveys have fewer parameters or other components and then we can do it the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u82	So the question to the Minister is: is she able, or does she see opportunities to ensure that the desired route is taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u83	We usually do. Now it would mean about a year's delay. I don't want to. I always bet on the other way around. Now we had no choice, or we would be much delayed. It was also practically very difficult. However, I agree with Mrs Bruins Slot that it is preferable that you do it the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u84	Very good. No, Mrs. Bruins Slot, I've heard you twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u85	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
