ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Security and Justice to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago I was allowed to make my maiden speech here in the treatment of the bill at the youth residences; it is now a law. This law seeks to protect the safety and undisturbed development of children. The law found its origin in the fear that children from immigrant-Dutch families who stay long-term outside the supervision of their parents in boarding schools might not participate sufficiently in our Dutch society. At that time, I was allowed to talk about the importance of active citizenship and social inclusion. The law had a constructive, protective value towards the future. Today there is a legislative proposal with a much more negative sound. These are situations where something went very wrong during the personal development of a Dutchman. We are talking here about behaviour of such a serious nature that such desirable active citizenship and social inclusion has been violated. In fact, we are talking about behaviors of such a serious nature that, as a Dutch state, we terminate the bond with the perpetrator of this and deprive him or her of the Dutch citizenship. My group supports the idea behind the bill. The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, as mentioned in the draft law, is an expression of the fact that the link between the Netherlands and the person concerned who has seriously violated the essential interests of the Dutch State can no longer exist. The CDA Group supports this procedure. The amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap is, in our opinion, a limited supplement to what has been arranged for some time now. It is one new ground next to dozens of already existing, a change that does not introduce new principles and sets new boundaries and fits into the current legal system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr Rombouts, on behalf of the CDA Group, states that he takes the view in principle that the Dutch citizenship of a person, if he commits such a crime, can no longer be continued, so that the link with the Netherlands must be broken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u4	Nationality must be taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u5	That is a very principled position, while it only happens with regard to a specific group of Dutch people, namely the group of Dutch people who still have a second nationality. How does he look at not breaking the link with the Netherlands among Dutch people who have no other nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u6	That is a fair question, which has already been given its place in the written procedure. We have, of course, committed ourselves to the European Treaty which says that no one should become stateless. Mrs Strik did the same. So that makes it impossible to do this with people who possess only Dutch citizenship, or we should fight together for that treaty to be changed first, but the question is whether we want to put stateless people in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u7	That leaves Mr Rombouts open, I understand. Apart from that, I have the following question. He says it's a legal obstacle. I recognize that, too. Of course there is. What does Mr Rombouts think about this legal obstacle leading to unequal treatment? We are going to treat one group of Dutch people differently from the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u8	We will have to choose between two evils: no one takes away from the Netherlands or makes this distinction, which is not created by Dutch law, but in fact results from the fact that we fulfil our treaty obligation. We don't want people running around this world who don't belong to any state.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u9	Mrs. Strik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u10	Mr Rombouts takes it for granted, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u11	Yes. I said that nothing really changes. This led the Council of State to issue a blank opinion. The Council of State did not see any reason to comment on the substance. My group therefore does not need an extensive discussion today, especially now that two things have happened. The first is that the House of Representatives has ruled on the political desirability of the proposal and the second is that the Council of State has no legal objections to the way in which this small supplement has been designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u12	I would like to ask Mr Rombouts, on which he bases his argument, that violations of Article 134a of the Criminal Code are serious crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u13	Because people have been involved in what the article regulates and we can summarize briefly as subjecting or giving training that should lead to terrorist activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u14	But what about collecting for people who are committed to it? I'm just mentioning something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u15	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u16	That is a very thin slimming of the article. I actually wanted to make my final point. Perhaps it will give a better answer to Mrs Wezel's question than I should now spontaneously think of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u17	I propose that Mr Rombouts continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u18	I wanted to make it clear that the CDA Group considers this to be a small addition to the dozens of grounds already in place. It is an additional example, an extra ground, an additional conviction that could ultimately be taken away from Dutch citizenship. I would like to ask the Minister one more question, but I would like to say that last Thursday evening, looking at the BBC News at Ten, waiting for an item on the Den Bosch by Jeroen Bosch, I saw that in Syria large numbers of young children are still forced to take part in training courses. Perhaps that is also an answer to Mrs Strik's question. I hope, on behalf of the CDA Group, that this proposal will make a small contribution to reducing these horrible practices. I realise that this is three years after the Dijkhoff motion and that it will only make a small contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u19	My question was...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u20	Mrs Wezel, would you please have Mr Rombouts speak out first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u21	This is really my last sentence. There is very little this bill can do. It can only make a very small contribution. The scope of the draft law is already very small. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to speed up his agenda on the prevention and comprehensive approach of jihadism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u22	If a 15-year-old boy collects for people "who are committed to" or look for 15-year-olds on Google how to make a bomb, they can be prosecuted under Article 134a of the Criminal Code. Can I conclude from Mr Rombouts' contribution that this is sufficient ground for the CDA to expel a child from the Netherlands and to deprive him of Dutch citizenship?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u23	I cannot imagine that in the case described by Mrs Wezel...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u24	Mr Rombouts, Mrs Wezel will finish her sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u25	My line was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u26	That's what I thought. I'd have picked up a point. I might have been a little quick, excuse me. I cannot imagine that, in the case described by Mrs Wezel, it will eventually lead to that withdrawal. It takes two steps. There must first be a conviction and then there must be an independent decision by the Minister on that case. I would point out that, as Mrs Wezel now puts it, in the slimming case of a 15-year-old collector, it will not come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u27	Mrs Wezel, in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u28	It could provide assistance or assistance in the preparation of terrorist offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u29	That is Mrs Wezel's assessment. She asks me to answer a very specific case of a very young person in a relative activity. That's exactly what needs to be done. Following a conviction, the Minister still has to make an independent assessment of whether he wishes to proceed with that withdrawal. I do not think that would happen in the event that Mrs Wezel described.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u30	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a new, additional criminal ground for the loss of Dutch citizenship, namely preparatory acts for a terrorist crime or support in committing a terrorist crime. This description of the offence was included in our Code of Criminal Law in 2009. Participation in a terrorist organisation is already an existing basis for depriving the Netherlands, namely under Article 140a of criminal law, and in many cases is the more serious crime. My group calls on the government first of all to explain the added value of the new provision in relation to the existing one. The mere fact that the government has been called upon to do so by a motion from the Lower House, however prominent the proposers may have been, is not a convincing basis for this. I ask the question about the appropriateness of this bill also in the light of the fact that during the proceedings in the House of Representatives it emerged that a conviction of persons of multiple nationality under the new Article 134a has hardly, perhaps even once or twice, taken place. Can the Minister give us an update on this? The bill provides that in the event of a conviction based on the crime, as set out in Article 134a Criminal Law, the withdrawal of nationality, Dutch citizenship, may follow. The right to nationality is one of the most fundamental human rights and is enshrined, inter alia, in Article 15 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. My group also assesses the present legislative proposal from this fundamental rights perspective. First of all, this means that no citizen should become stateless. We see this not as a legal obstacle, but as a human right. This is provided for in both the UN Convention on Statelessness and the European Convention on Nationality. Those conventions prohibit the legislation of the States party to the Convention in which, by reason of the loss of nationality, persons concerned would become stateless, except in the event of fraud in obtaining nationality. This means that the Dutch citizenship can only be withdrawn from persons who also have a different nationality than the Dutch. My group notes that the government clearly recognises that these conventions set a clear limit on the power of a government to withdraw citizenship. This can only be done if the person concerned has a multiple, at least double, nationality. But even in that case, this very far-reaching measure must be applied with extreme restraint. In the written consultations, which took place in two rounds, we had an explicit exchange with the government of the fact that this measure can only be dealt with after an irrevocable criminal conviction. Can the Minister confirm that orally? Furthermore, in the written consultation, we have established that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship after such an irrevocable sentence of punishment cannot in no way be an automatic mechanism. In this context, the seriousness of the crime and the measurement of the penalty play a role, as well as, in the reply, "special circumstances relating to the person of the offender and pressing humanitarian reasons." I ask the government to confirm that this indicates that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship following a criminal conviction under Article 134a of criminal law cannot be automatic at all and that the Minister has a wide discretion in deciding on it. The European Convention on Nationality clearly states that loss of nationality is permitted only in the event of conduct which seriously harms the essential interests of the State party to the Convention. To what extent does the Minister consider that the condition of serious harm to the essential interests of the State, as laid down in this Treaty, constitutes, in some sense, a threshold clause? In my group's view, it is not conceivable that a minor should be deprived of his Dutch citizenship. Nevertheless, the Minister replied: "However, the minority does not necessarily stand in the way of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship." Without wishing to lapse in this case, I ask the Minister what circumstances are conceivable in which a minor is deprived of Dutch citizenship while his parents are Dutch nationals. How, for example, could this lead to tension with the rights of the child under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and I would like to point out, among other things, that Article 8 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child should be applied? Or should I refer this question to the Children's Ombudsman, while he is still in office? In the written consultation, the Minister needs remarkably many words for his argument that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is not a punitive measure, but merely an administrative measure. In several places in the reply, the Minister states that this is not an additional penalty or criminal measure. We wonder under what conditions the punished person could not perceive the loss of his nationality as punitive. I therefore repeat the written question from the PvdA Group as to whether it would no longer be obvious that the criminal court and not the minister could impose such a measure. Although such a ministerial decision is open to appeal to the administrative judge, that review by the administrative judge, especially in the Administrative Court of the Council of State, will have a much less broad scope than judicial review by the criminal court. In fact, the administrative judge's review is marginal. In addition, the measure is not affected by such a procedure. Is this a correct situation in a high-quality rule of law from the point of view of legal protection? The Minister remains of the opinion in the written consultation that the legal inequality between persons of Dutch nationality and persons of multiple nationality alone does not give rise to unequal treatment. However, as Professor Jessurun d'Oliveira stated in the Dutch Juristenblad in December 2015, this means that "monopatride Dutch people can cause serious harm to the essential interests of the Dutch state without any national consequences," while the bipatride Dutchman loses his Dutch citizenship. In the opinion of Jessurun d'Oliveira, the discriminatory aspects of this anti-terrorism legislation "dangerous ostrich policy, low effectiveness and logically unsustainable" are closed. I'm asking the Minister for a response to this. In the further reply, the Minister states that the withdrawal of nationality is regarded as a national competence. We are happy to admit to him that this is right when he refers to operational competence. However, when it comes to the substantive basis, Union law does come about. I would like to bet a good bottle of wine that the content of the European Convention on Nationality, although originating from the Council of Europe, can be considered to be part of the Community legal order. For example, the Minister will always want to be guided by global and European fundamental rights or by the statement of the European Court of Justice in the Rottmann judgment of 2010 that, although Member States are free to set up nationality law, they must comply with Union law. I am sure the Minister agrees with me on this, but I would like to offer him an opportunity to make sure that there is no misunderstanding. That's why I'm going to bring it up. My group is looking forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u31	Mr. Chairman. In his struggle with the violent regime of Adolf Hitler, Winston Churchill wrote in 1939: "It would be neither right nor reasonable if the power of aggression would enjoy a whole series of advantages by tearing up all the treaties, and yet another set of advantages by hiding behind the innate respect that its opponents hold against the law." Churchill found that the free countries were bound up with beautiful, well-meaning treaties. The peace-loving countries were put at a deadly disadvantage in his experience. Of course one fight isn't the other. The fight against the Nazi regime is a different one than against international Islamic terrorism, although the position of the Jews in both fights is striking. We must at least take Churchill's signal to heart. How do we prevent in itself very valuable treaties from unnecessarily hindering us in the fight against terror? We cannot flatter ourselves with the idea that we will win the war anyway. Treaties also sometimes need to be adapted to time. It's strange to suggest that marbles are chiseled in marble. Tightening up treaties is not in any way contrary to human rights. In his contribution as a Member of the House of Representatives, the Minister rightly stressed that treaties deserve modernisation on specific points. The SGP supports that commitment. The same applies to the European Convention on Nationality and the Convention on the limitation of Statelessness. Has the government received information from the Council of Europe on the vision and working methods of other treaty states? Does the government intend to play a leading role in bringing such conventions to the fore? The SGP considers it important to note that, on the basis of the current treaties, statelessness is not absolutely reprehensible. No matter how you turn it or turn it, statelessness is consciously accepted when nationality is obtained by false information. This is indeed a special situation, but, according to the SGP, if statelessness is acceptable because of deception, it must also be possible to do so in the case of terrorism. The first category is actually a matter of administrative justice, while in the case of terror many lives may be at stake. Does the government want to give this a profound weighting? Are we at this point, with all good intentions, not too much of an accounting mentality? When it comes to the loss of Dutch citizenship, the government is going down very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u32	Should I understand Mr Van Dijk's speech in such a way that he would have no problem with removing thresholds for statelessness? I myself was raised thinking that in God's house there is a room for everyone. I also hope that the fundamental human right to a nationality that every person has will not be questioned by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u33	I'm happy to answer that question. First of all, I noted that the treaties at present do not make statelessness completely impossible. In the event of fraud, we seem to find that acceptable. Why shouldn't we find that acceptable in the event of terror? I'll put that question to the Minister. Isn't that much worse? As far as I am concerned, as they are now drawn, the limits are negotiable. I'd be happy to present that to the Minister. Also when it comes to the automatic loss of Dutch citizenship, the government goes very quickly. The former Minister Opstelten has stated that there is no legal room for automatic loss. I think that is a curious statement, because the European Convention on Nationality states that the loss of nationality is automatically set out in plain and simple terms. It's about the strange military service. It is reasonable to include the modern forms, such as participation in the IS-hordens with whom the Netherlands is in battle, under this ground as well. That was precisely the focus of the Dijkhoff motion which is the basis of this proposal. I would therefore like to hear a more detailed explanation. If the government really believes that the withdrawal of Union citizenship always requires a test of proportionality, what is the reaction of the government to the fact that the interpretation of the European Court of Justice is clearly contrary to the text of the Treaty? In any case, isn't that a reason for a thorough revision of the Treaty? In support of the proposal, the Government refers to the Rottmann judgment. I would point out that the need for proportionality in this case is motivated by two important circumstances. Firstly, Union citizenship was at stake because it was obtained by deception; secondly, the result of statelessness was at stake. Does the government recognise that there is room for automatic loss outside these situations? Why is this space not being used in situations where Union citizenship and statelessness are not at issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u34	I would like a little more clarification on the position of Mr Van Dijk or his group. He used to say cheating wasn't as bad as terror. Now he indicates that there must be a proportionality test in the event of fraud. The European Court of Justice has decided in the Rottmann case that nationality cannot be lost by law. Mr Van Dijk wonders why, in the event of terror, one could not automatically lose one's nationality, even though he just pointed out that fraud was less serious than terror. If this requires all this proportionality test, why should it not be possible in the event of terror?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u35	I'm not sure I understand you very well. I would like to make the point that I have the impression that a very specific judgment, the Rottmann judgment, is drawing very general lines, whereas in that case two important elements were involved. Union citizenship was at stake because of the acquisition by deceit and the threat of statelessness. My argument is that there is room for the loss of nationality automatically if these two elements are not at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u36	In the judgment, the Court has no connection whatsoever with these two specific cases. Becoming stateless is important, but the Court also makes it very clear that the general principle is always to act in accordance with the principle of proportionality of Union law. That contrasts with automatic automatic withdrawal, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u37	I don't believe that. As I said, you can also automatically lose your nationality at this time, for example by joining a foreign power. There's that option now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u38	The Rottmann judgment concerned Union citizenship under the Treaty on European Union. There is also the European Convention on Nationality. I think you're confusing two different review frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u39	Maybe we'll talk a little bit past each other. I promise Mrs. Strik to take a closer look at it in a moment and otherwise I'll walk by her door.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u40	In my opinion, the decision to deprive the Netherlands is a decision within the meaning of the Awb, in which the proportionality test applies to everyone. Why wouldn't that apply to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u41	I note, then, that the interpretation of the European Court seems to contradict the text of the Treaty. Even now it is the case that when a foreign military force is engaged, loss of Dutch citizenship is automatically possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u42	In my view, it is a decision within the meaning of the AWB, whereby the proportionality test applies to everyone. Then why doesn't it apply to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u43	Even when it comes to cheating and so on, one can become stateless, also independently of the proportionality test.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u44	I propose that Mr Van Dijk continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u45	I have another question. We are also talking here about the addition of Article 134a criminal law, which is about help and assistance in preparing, for example, a terrorist act. That can be very limited, as I just said. I'm thinking collect, look things up on the Internet, or hand and tension services. I heard Mr Van Dijk say that this means that the Dutch community must be deprived of its rights. Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u46	In principle, I would like to say in this legislative proposal that anyone who deals with terrorist activities, for example in support of ISIS, loses the Netherlands, so without any legal detours or reservations. As far as I am concerned, that should be the strength of this bill. Mr. Chairman. In the case of terrorists, if we are sometimes limited by the prohibition of statelessness, it is important for the SGP Group to keep the difference between terrorists as small as possible. It is difficult to digest the fact that a terrorist of Dutch nationality alone is better off than a double-national terrorist who cannot be deported. As a foreigner, the latter has significantly less rights in the Netherlands. It would be good if the terrorists who are allowed to retain Dutch citizenship were to be deprived of as many privileges as possible of citizenship. Can the government tell us how she's handling this? What opportunities does it see to reduce the inequality between terrorists in this way? The aim of the bill is to enable terrorists to be deported as appropriate. I would therefore like to make the following point. Western Europe is also facing horrific terrorist attacks. If the perpetrators survive, the question arises as to what is a just punishment, which does justice to the suffering of victims. In several countries, terrorists can receive the death penalty, as in the United States. A terrifying punishment, no misunderstanding about that. However, in the eyes of the SGP, this could be a just punishment in the event of extreme terrorist violence; I only mention Paris. Whoever takes the created life seriously is willing to think about it. It is not a sign of humanity if the death penalty is not possible under any circumstances. In a substantial part of our society, this sense of justice is dormant. Now, however, if a terrorist commits an attack in the US, for example, and he flees to the Netherlands, he cannot be extradited to the US, because he can get the death penalty there. If Osama bin Laden had been arrested in the Netherlands, he would not have been extradited to the US. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u47	I see that Mr Engels is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u48	I haven't really heard a point yet, but you're giving me the floor, Mr President, so I'm going to start soon. Mr Van Dijk talks about the possibility that the death penalty should not be ruled out in all cases. Do I understand that he thinks that this discussion should also be held in the Netherlands within our legislative bodies? If so, could he also point the way along which we should do so? This will require constitutional change. I therefore believe that we are in conflict with at least two treaties. Does Mr Van Dijk have the idea that we, as civilized society, are not going to take a step back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u49	I'd like to answer that question. The focus of my comments is, of course, on extradition. I mentioned the example of Osama bin Laden. If he had fled to the Netherlands in a manner of speaking, the Netherlands would not hand him over to the US because he could receive the death penalty there. Then I doubt that's reasonable. Is it up to us to dictate to such a democratic state, which America is, that it should be and that it should be, and that and that enforcement we find acceptable or not? That is the point I want to make here, precisely towards a rule of law such as America, which is an ally in the fight against terror. If you wish, we can, of course, discuss the whole debate on the pros and cons of the death penalty. I hope we can afford to put that discussion aside for as long as possible, but if you let 9/11 and Paris soak on you, it is only a question of whether you should not even engage in that discussion, also because a substantial part of the population has the sense of justice that the death penalty should be possible in certain extreme terrorist cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u50	With regard to the invitation to take part in the debate, which is very sporty, I say that we should not do so, because we are talking about a different subject now. In any case, I do not support the invitation that is implied in your speech to have that discussion here, because I doubt whether there is at all a substantial part of the population that would like to have this discussion or feel unheimous about it. I think we're really gonna take a step back. So I hope that I do not have to go through that as long as I am part of this legislative body.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u51	Your speech is clear. It is precisely when you put the value of life very high, what the SGP does, that you have to ask yourself whether when someone is massively engaged in life, he should not be able to face the highest punishment. So in that sense, thinking about the death penalty has everything to do with the high value we attach to life. I was just talking about the extradition of terrorists to the US, for example, which is now, by definition, impossible. I ask the Minister: is this not an presumptuous course of action towards such democratic states of the law, which are, in any case, allies in the fight against terror? Is the Minister prepared to question this course of action?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u52	Mr. Chairman. In the opinion of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Article 1 of the Constitution, and the principle of proportionality, the draft law to extend the possibilities for depriving the Netherlands of terrorist offences, as it now stands, is contrary to the European Nationality Convention, Article 1 of the Constitution and the principle of proportionality. It is, of course, very important that action be taken against persons and organisations that threaten our rule of law, but let us not do so by putting it at the expense of our constitutional principles. In the fight against terrorism, it is important to keep a cool head and to cherish the values of our rule of law. I come to the legality of the bill. In the opinion of the SP Group, the bill is contrary to the European Convention on Nationality. The European Nationality Convention lists cases to which a State may attach the loss of its nationality. States should not create new loss provisions outside that list. Article 7 (1) (d) of the European Convention on Nationality provides that the Netherlands may be deprived of its status if a person has been convicted of serious damage to vital interests. The current Article 14 (2) of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap is associated with this and the Minister may withdraw the Dutch citizenship if the person has been irrevocably convicted of a crime in which serious damage has been caused to the essential interests of the Kingdom or of one or more countries of the Kingdom. This is a crime which is directed against the State and its institutions and which contains a serious violent or hostile element. With the bill as it stands, it is out of the box. It follows from the legislative proposal that if a person is convicted of committing terrorist activities or preparing such activities, however limited, and although no attack has taken place, the Minister may deprive the Netherlands of the Dutch citizenship. In the view of the SP Group, an infringement of Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law does not necessarily lead to serious damage to the essential interests of the Kingdom. By including Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law in Article 14 (2) of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, a convicted person for Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law runs the risk of being deprived of his Dutch citizenship. This will create a new loss clause outside the list of the European Nationality Convention. In the note following the report, number 5, the Minister writes on page 4, in the middle of the page, that, in his opinion, a criminal conviction based on Article 134a of the Criminal Code will almost always involve conduct that seriously harms the essential interests of the Dutch State. So the Minister doesn't rule out that it's not always there. The inclusion of Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law in Article 14 (2) of the Rijkswet also applies to cases where no serious damage has been caused to essential interests, in the opinion of the SP Group, outside the framework of Article 7 of the European Nationality Convention and is therefore contrary to the European Nationality Convention. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Furthermore, the legislative proposal is contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution and to the principle of non-discrimination. Only the Dutchmanship of Dutch people with a dual nationality can be taken away, but not that of Dutch people with only Dutch nationality. The Minister claims that there is no discrimination because equal treatment would lead to statelessness for the Dutch with only Dutch nationality. This is contrary to a higher regime, namely Article 7 of the European Convention on Nationality, which prohibits the emergence of statelessness. The Minister forgets one thing in that reasoning. There is an open way to equal treatment in accordance with the European Nationality Convention: simply do not involve any nationality law consequences in the conviction of Article 134a of the Criminal Code. Contrary to the Minister's view, the distinction is therefore not necessary. If the withdrawal of nationality is not possible for Dutch people with a single nationality, it is also not possible for Dutch people with a double nationality who are guilty of the same fact. This would also be more appropriate to another principle of the European Nationality Convention laid down in Article 5 (2), which requires States to be guided by the principle of non-discrimination between their nationals, whether they are nationals by birth or subsequently acquired nationality. The same principle certainly aims to promote equal treatment between Dutch nationals with a single and double nationality. This principle is essential for cohesion in Dutch society. The option to refrain from withdrawing Dutch citizenship and, above all, to allow criminal law and prevention to do their job in terrorist acts is preferable to discrimination in withdrawing Dutch citizenship. In the opinion of the SP Group, the bill is also contrary to the principle of equality because Dutch people of dual nationality are more severely punished if they are convicted under Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law. In addition to a criminal conviction, they are subject to an administrative measure which is not granted to a Dutch person of a single nationality. Furthermore, in the opinion of the SP Group, the proposal is contrary to the principle of proportionality. Could the Minister explain why criminal law as a means of repression is not sufficient for Dutch people of dual nationality convicted under Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law? What is the need, in addition to the criminal conviction, to impose the administrative measure again? Is that the withdrawal of the Dutchmanship? To what extent is the imposition of an administrative measure with these extreme consequences, in addition to criminal prosecution, still proportionate? In my group's opinion, the Minister is shooting a cannon at a mosquito! Then I come to the feasibility and enforcement of the bill. Article 14 (2) of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap has been in existence for a long time. How many times has the administrative withdrawal measure already been used? Can the Minister indicate whether the Dutchmanship has since taken place on the basis of Article 14 (2) of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap? And if so, how many persons are involved? How many of these are former Syrian fighters or Syria fighters? Where are these people now? Are they put out of the land, are they in foreign custody, are they untraceable? Today, the First Chamber also discusses the termination of the treaty with Morocco. Upon termination of the Convention, it is expected that persons whose Dutch citizenship is withdrawn and who retain Moroccan nationality will not be taken over by Morocco. In addition to Dutch nationality, most Dutch Syrian fighters also have Moroccan nationality. The SP Group wonders what the minister thinks is going to do if they cannot be deported from the Netherlands. Does the Minister expect Morocco to take over a terrorist? How morally responsible is it for one state to deport his terrorist to another state? Does the Minister intend to consult the other State prior to the decision to withdraw the nationality of a national? Is the Minister not creating a security risk by taking away from these persons the Dutchmanship and turning them into illegal foreigners in the Netherlands? What's the Minister gonna do with these people? In its opinion of November 2015, the Council of State states that the withdrawal of nationality may also hinder the return of a traveler who wishes to withdraw from the terrorist organisation and who himself is no longer a threat. It is not unthinkable that the impossibility of return has an adverse effect on the intention to withdraw from the organisation. It is not entirely clear that this unintentional further radicalisation can contribute to further radicalisation, including with regard to the environment of the person concerned in the Netherlands, with possible adverse effects on the safety of the Kingdom. What is the Minister's response to this? Is the Minister insisting that those who are deported are not tortured in the countries to which they are deported when it is known in that country that they are a terrorist? On the basis of the two cases in which there was no conviction of the defendants, the Minister considered it necessary to enter this bill. Can the Minister imagine that Dutch people with an Arab background, who cannot renounce their non-Dutch nationality, feel stigmatized by this bill? Can the Minister explain to what extent this legislation contributes to cohesion in the Netherlands? In the opinion of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, solutions such as combating youth unemployment, drop-outs, preventing isolation and helping and assisting young people with psychological problems should be considered. Terrorism doesn't fight with banishment. The SP Group looks forward with interest to the Minister's reply to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u53	Mr. Chairman. The European Nationality Convention is clear: a State which has endorsed the Convention may provide in its national law for the loss of nationality in the event of conduct seriously affecting the essential interests of the State which is a party. Moreover, that provision is only possible if it does not render the person concerned Stateless. This is the result of the UN Convention to limit statelessness. I ask the Minister immediately whether this is the treaty framework within which he works and wants to continue to work, or whether he wants to adapt. Those who go through the proposals of the Ministry in recent years can get a different picture. Back to the loss assessment. I quote from one of the minister's ministers: "There are serious problems with such a provision. In particular, it will be necessary to impose high requirements on evidence to take account of the far-reaching consequences of the withdrawal of nationality; only if it is established that the person concerned has acted in a way that has harmed the essential interests of the country, nationality may be withdrawn. The person concerned will not provide the necessary information himself soon and it will often be difficult to collect the necessary evidence by other means. The Belgian and Slovenian authorities, whose legislation has a similar loss clause, have indicated that, precisely in view of the high requirements to be imposed on the proof, the removal of nationality in the cases referred to here is virtually non-existent in practice. Considering this, I believe that the inclusion of such a provision in the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap should be waived." Was signed, one of the ministers of this Minister of Justice, in a letter in the course of the examination of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap in September 2000. Times are changing. We are seeing new forms of terrorism, which unfortunately also attracts hundreds of young people in our country. This calls for a firm and well-founded approach to this new phase in terrorism. The criminal consequences, as well as the consequences for the citizenship of the Kingdom, must be considered when compatriots become sympathetic to a terrorist group, prepare to join such a group or even participate in terrorist acts. But the urge for a good and effective approach must also remain an encouragement to weigh up new legislation on usefulness, necessity and effectiveness. The Minister argues that this bill expresses that the Netherlands should not in any way facilitate the commission of foreign terrorist offences or to prepare persons for the commission of terrorist offences. Can the Minister explain how Dutch citizenship is facilitating for the persons covered by the functioning of this bill? After all, is the other nationality that they own not so much as facilitating the legislative proposal only for citizens of dual nationality? What happens in the case of a similar loss determination in the other country of origin? More importantly, what makes this proposed provision useful in comparison with the remarks made by the minister's predecessor in 2000? At that time, European colleagues who had such a provision in the law themselves pointed out that there was hardly any practical application. Did the Minister request an update from his colleagues? The Minister argues that a conviction under Article 134a of the Criminal Code is sufficient to assume that the essential interests of the State have been harmed. That's what he's deriving from the eight-year sentence. But in our country, fortunately, we don't have minimum sentences. The judge is judging. Suppose the judge sentenced one suspect to one year and another to eight years in jail on the basis of this article. Does it matter? If not, how can the Minister argue that, on the basis of the penalty level, this article already makes it clear that the essential interests of the State have been harmed? What exactly are these essential interests, according to the Minister? It is difficult to define on the basis of penalties. I know that the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap is already coming to that reasoning by the penalty level, but precisely because we have already seen examples of minors who collect there are more extremes to mention, I think it is important for the Minister to define more precisely what these essential interests are. Can the Minister also indicate the number of convictions under Article 134a of the Criminal Code? Then there's the procedure for this bill. For such a well-defined little bill, that is what the procedure is called downright messy. Let me start with the consultation phase. The Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Judicial Board have been consulted. Why only the former advisory committee? This is Dutch, isn't it? Why not other advisory committees, such as the State Committee on Private International Law and the Advisory Committee on Civil Status and Nationality? Since the bill was tabled on 30 August in response to an approved motion of the House of Representatives which mentioned 1 September as a deadline, my group has been concerned that the speed has not had any effect on due diligence. After the draft law was issued with a blank opinion from the Council of State, a letter of amendment was followed which is certainly not technical. While the Minister is rather proud of that blank advice, he refuses to submit the amendment to the Council of State. That raises questions. The amendment affects the principle of legality. As a result, the right of transition is limited. I am trying to sum up the Minister's reasoning: because the amendment of the National Law does not concern criminal law, but administrative law, the principle does not apply that a conduct can only be punishable if there was a law at the time of the crime. According to the Minister, the Rijkswet is not about the criminality of a behavior. At the same time, I believe that this is a sanction which makes itself felt not only administratively, but also punitively. The Minister doesn't deny that. With this reasoning, therefore, administrative sanctions are possible on the basis of criminally convicted offences where one could not yet know at the time of committing the offence that there would be an administrative sanction. My group feels uncomfortable with this reasoning. We would have liked to have heard the opinion of the Council of State on this. I would also like to ask whether this reasoning has a precedent. In combating the connection with terrorist organisations and combating radicalisation, the Christian Union expects the salvation to a lesser extent of this type of legislation and much more of the struggle for ideas, solid deradicalisation paths with proven working methods, effective criminal prosecution in crimes and no mercy for the spread of hate-bearing ideology that calls for violence. How's that going? Isn't it more important to put all the energy in there? Of course, there are situations that are conceivable that the only consequence is that the Dutchmanship is being taken away. The law already mentions about 60 possibilities. I look forward to the Minister's reply to hear why Article 134a of the Penal Code should be added to it and listen particularly carefully to his answer to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u54	Mr. Chairman. I have the honour and the pleasure of speaking again after a long time, partly on behalf of the OSF Group. This, of course, gives my contribution a special weight. This legislative proposal allows for an extension to take away Dutch citizenship in cases where there is assistance in committing terrorist activities or in the preparation of such activities. A conviction based on Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law, which criminalizes these conducts, has so far not been able to impose the measure to withdraw the Dutch citizenship. The fact that the legislator considers these acts to be serious is demonstrated by the degree of punishment: a prison sentence of up to eight years. It reflects the seriousness of the breach of the essential interests of the State. With the proposal to take away the Dutch community after a criminal conviction, the cabinet wants to express that the Dutch community should not in any way facilitate the commission of foreign terrorist offences or to prepare persons for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u55	I hear Mr Engels say that the seriousness of the offences is evident from the level of punishment. However, it may well be that the judge does not impose any penalty or measure. So, what's the seriousness of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u56	From the ruling given by the legislator in this article of law. I repeat what seems to have been the judgement of the legislator to attach this maximum penalty to the crime. It's a description.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u57	It doesn't have to be a serious crime, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u58	Then we'll be in a different phase. I have only spoken about what seems to have been the will of the legislator. I do not consider the extent to which, in a specific case, the application of this legal provision by the judge could or could not be a serious offence. That's casuistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u59	Finally, Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u60	We're here to determine if 134a is added to 14, paragraph 2. We decide here whether, on the basis of a conviction, Dutch citizenship can be taken away. A conviction based on 134a can be very limited. The actions can be very limited. Does that justify, in D66's view, that in all cases the Dutch community can be deprived of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u61	I'm not ready for that question at all. I'm just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u62	I'd like you to answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u63	Then you'll have to be patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u64	Mr Engels continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. In general terms and on its own, this can be regarded as a reasonable and understandable objective. The European Convention on Nationality (EVN) also allows for the withdrawal of nationality in conduct which seriously harms the essential interests of the State. Apparently, the bill does not focus, at least not primarily, on increasing state security and combating jihadism. The government states in the reply that the legislative proposal does not seek to change the existing system of withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. The aim of the proposal is merely to extend the already existing wide scope for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. In the meantime, it is striking that, according to the explanatory statement by the cabinet, this bill is nevertheless explicitly placed in the context of the fight against jihadism. After all, the cabinet wants to implement a motion by Mr Dijkhoff, who wanted to strengthen the possibilities for the loss of Dutch citizenship in terrorist activities. Earlier, this ambition was reflected in the cabinet letter of 30 June 2014 on measures for what is called the "approach" of jihadism in today's political language. It is not for nothing that the explanatory statement explicitly mentions the relevance of the proposal for so-called Syrians and the consequences for the Dutch legal order in case of return to the Netherlands. The D66 and OSF groups cannot entirely escape the impression that the proposal is also intended to contribute to the reduction of jihadism and the prevention of the exodus of Dutch young people to Syria. The fact that a bill has been announced in the Plan of Action on jihadism and is now before the Council of State for the amendment of the National Law on the Netherlands for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interest of national security does not remove this impression. I would ask the Minister once again to state exactly what the position and significance of this bill is in the government's policy on combating jihadism. A second issue concerns the impact of the draft law on Dutch people of dual nationality. We understand that international law prevents the application of a national legal rule, in this case the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, from leading to statelessness. It could be concluded that the Netherlands with a dual nationality enjoy less protection or even that there could be legal inequality. After the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, they will not become stateless. They are then subject to foreign law, which may have consequences after the sentence has been served. The Minister states in the reply that there is a justified and necessary distinction here. On this point, the D66 Group and the OSF still need a more detailed explanation. The Minister may refer to the protection of the Treaty against statelessness as a basis for a distinction in the basic position of nationality which is justified and necessary. I would like to hear whether our groups have seen this correctly. I would also like to ask the Minister to confirm that the share of a crime, the seriousness of a crime and the actual imposition of penalties cannot be grounds for making a difference in the application of this bill by adopting an administrative measure in the case of Dutch nationals of dual nationality. My group then drew attention in the written preparation to the amendment of the transitional right in the case of amendments. This amendment, on which the Council of State has not been able to advise, makes it possible to deprive the Netherlands of the Dutch citizenship of persons convicted under Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law, after the new law has entered into force, but who have committed the conduct before the entry into force of this law. Questions on possible complications in the light of the concept of "criminal charge" in Article 6 of the ECHR and the principle of legality guaranteed in Article 7 of the ECHR have turned the government away by stating that the Minister's decision is subject to administrative law and not to criminal law. This decision could not be regarded as a criminal measure and therefore could not be found to be contrary to the ECHR. In the interpretation of Article 7 of the ECHR, no penalty without a legal basis...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The initial question when assessing a measure in the light of Article 7 of the ECHR is whether the measure follows a conviction for a crime. In assessing the criminal nature of a sanction, the European Court also considers, for example, whether the disadvantage to the convicted person by imposing the penalty or the measure was greater than he or she had to contend with in the course of conduct. The Group of the Party of European Socialists and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are not convinced that such a serious measure as the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, although not punitive in nature and not automatic in criminal proceedings, could not be brought under the term 'penalty' by the European Court of Human Rights. In other words, our political groups are hesitant as to whether the adapted transitional law can maintain a constitutional status and I would ask the Minister once again to state explicitly what risk the Dutch State is running here. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u66	Mr. Chairman. Two years, almost two full years, the Ministry of Security and Justice had to quibble and weigh, dubbe and tub, before the government could submit to the Second Chamber the bill "Amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap in order to extend the possibilities for depriving the Netherlands of terrorist offences." A whole mouthful for a very slimming version of the initial proposal. The original motion, which of course could count on the support of the PVV, went a lot further and was a lot firmer. In this motion, the government was called upon to deny nationality to persons convicted of participating in a terrorist organisation. Now only a few opportunities are being extended for taking away the Dutchmanship, but that's all. Another year later, we're standing here, in the First Chamber. That concerns my first comment and ask the Minister. The Netherlands must make a catch-up with regard to creating the right anti-terrorist measures. That includes new laws. They must be carefully established. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he agrees with me that things can be done faster and faster. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. As far as my group is concerned, it must also be a lot tougher, but that will prove difficult, at least with this cabinet. This bill also shows how our cabinet is more afraid of the European judges and of the European treaties than of the terrorists. As far as PVV is concerned, the European treaties are not sacrosanct or heavenly. They are only tolerated, in another century, in another time, closed in another reality. Once the Netherlands sees that these treaties restrict us in our war on terrorism, then we must amend those treaties or, if they do not succeed, withdraw from them. Countries around us, such as England and France, have adopted stricter laws in the fight against terror and are therefore less attracted to those silly judges in their ivory towers in Luxembourg or Strasbourg. A few years ago, the Netherlands was still lovingly called the best boy in the European class. I fear that ISIS cum suis Netherlands will find Europe's biggest loser in this context. We are therefore talking today about only a marginal extension of the possibilities for depriving the Netherlands of terrorist offences, a marginal extension that we, as a PVV group, will support. After all, something is better than nothing. The current threat level in the Netherlands is, according to the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, substantial. This means that the chance of an attack in the Netherlands is real. It is now time to roll up the sleeves and take the necessary measures to give our citizens the protection they and we are entitled to. The radicalisation of immigrants is particularly alarming. The failing integration of large groups of Muslims in the Netherlands, combined with a constant influx of new asylum seekers, often combat-ready young men from Islamic countries, rapidly leads to a huge fifth column within our own borders. These are at least people who reject Western society with all its freedoms and other achievements. At worst, and unfortunately many of these have already made headlines, they are life-threatening terrorists, who are ready and able at any time, at any time, to blow up yourself, you, your children, the train in which you are travelling, the airport in which you are flying, the hotel in which you are sleeping, the school where your children are sitting or the shopping streets where we do our shopping. The terrorist in 2016 leans on international networks, increasing the impact of the local terrorist spectacularly. Three quarters of the Dutch Muslims qualify Syrians as heroes, and up to an average of 25% of Muslims support terrorism or would be willing to support it. I refer, respectively, to the investigations of Motivation and Pew Research Center. Worldwide, terrorist organisations have approximately 3 million comrades. The Dutch contribution is not childish with about 200,000 potential Allah soldiers. The purpose of these religious fanatics is to overthrow everything we have built in the free West. With multiple attacks in New York, Paris, Tel Aviv, Amsterdam, London, Madrid and many other cities, the terrorists have proven to be able to take a hell of a lot of hits, blows that can and will seriously disrupt our free societies and seriously reduce the sense of security. The Netherlands must take a package of measures. We must not fall into the trap of terrorist propaganda and gain sympathy or understanding for the purpose of a terrorist organisation. Terror is never a legitimate weapon, in any fight. The sanction for committing and supporting terrorist attacks must be greatly increased and our Ministry of Security and Justice must work more quickly and seriously on such legislative proposals, with more urgency and more seriousness at least than the legislative proposal we are debating today. I am convinced that if we are really committed, we will have the capacity to defeat terrorism. All we need is the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u67	Mr. Chairman. With this bill, the cabinet is taking another step in making Dutchmen conditional, and in tightening the distinction between Dutchmen with a second nationality and Dutchmen who do not. According to the Cabinet, there's nothing new under the sun. Another crime is added to the grounds for the withdrawal of Article 14 (2) of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. This time, in short, it is a broad definition of preparatory actions relating to the commission of a terrorist offence. You can reason that the Dutch system already provides for a criminal conviction in respect of 60 crimes as a grounds for withdrawal, and so there is no reason for a critical reflection on this bill anymore. My group feels differently about this. Each step widens the gap between groups of Dutch and therefore raises questions about the necessity and proportionality of the withdrawal. Article 134a of the Criminal Code is very broad. Mrs Wezel has already mentioned a number of examples that could be included. It may be a presence in a terrorist training camp or the acquisition of knowledge necessary for the preparation or commission of a terrorist offence, or, for example, the collection. The context is very important for a criminal conviction. The acts must be linked to a terrorist offence. The assessment is only left to the criminal court. My group understands from the written response that the decision to withdraw is not based on the degree of culpability or seriousness, unless there is a conviction without penalty or a low sentence due to greatly reduced accountability. My group would like to know why the actual imposition of penalties does not play a role in the decision to withdraw. Suppose the judge sentenced someone to two years in prison, because his role is considered relatively small. Then that's a relevant fact, isn't it? The condition for the withdrawal is that the conduct constitutes serious damage to the essential interests of the Dutch State, on the basis of Article 7 of the European Convention on Nationality. So I'd like an explanation of that. Next, the starting point is withdrawal, unless there are special circumstances that stand in the way. Does this principle guarantee a complete, integrated individual consideration of the interests and circumstances, in order to examine whether the withdrawal is proportionate? My group would like to clarify this further, because that is not yet clear to us. For example, the Minister writes that age can play a role, but whether the Dutchman was born here does not matter. The relationship with the country of origin does not play an independent role either, the Minister writes. To what extent will all the elements be taken into account and how will this become apparent in the final decision? In assessing this legislative proposal, it is also important whether Union law is a review framework or not. In the Rottmann judgment, it has been mentioned before, the Court of Justice has ruled that Member States must respect EU law in the exercise of their competence in matters of nationality. In the case of decisions which may lead to the loss of nationality, the State will have to apply the proportionality test, taking into account the possession of European citizenship and its rights. As my group has already pointed out, in addition to the principles of Union law, the Charter of Fundamental Rights also plays a role, including Article 24, which entitles children to direct relations with both parents and the obligation to make the child's interests the first consideration for Member States. Article 7 also obliges Member States to respect the right to family life. Article 47 implies that the judicial review of such a revocation decision takes place in full, so that the judge can also properly examine whether all interests and circumstances have been sufficiently taken into account. The question is therefore whether the Minister recognises these Union-law obligations for this bill and whether he complies with them in the withdrawal procedures and precisely what that individual assessment is about. The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is a very serious intervention in someone's life. That withdrawal has far-reaching consequences and comes on top of a criminal conviction, which has already sanctioned the crime itself. The cabinet does not want to call the withdrawal a punitive sanction, and that is precisely why it must be able to justify that withdrawal is really necessary in order to prevent a serious violation of Dutch interests. Furthermore, my group would like to join the groups of D66 and the OSF, which question whether the ECHR is also applicable in relation to its punitive nature. The question raised by my group is: does the proposal to withdraw not show insufficient confidence in our criminal justice system? Our criminal law is also intended to prevent such a violation, and our investigation policy is also aimed at finding a possible repetition quickly. Why is the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship necessary to safeguard these interests, when no terrorist offence has been committed in this case? That question is important because of the far-reaching consequences of the measure. Given the strict gliding scale for foreigners, there is no doubt that the former Netherlands and the entire Union area will have to leave, often accompanied by an entry ban for years. As a result, the person concerned must break his ties with family members, friends and acquaintances and often with the country in which he grew up, with his own country. It may be that he has no connection with the country of second nationality and does not even speak its language. As a minister, you must be quite sure that the withdrawal is nevertheless strictly necessary in order to prevent a serious violation of an essential state interest. Does this constitute a separate consideration or does the Minister believe that the conviction under Article 134a of criminal law always lead to such an infringement? In our view, this should be examined separately. I would like to join Mrs Bikker's questions on the criteria for carrying out that test. Another objection from my group to the ever-expanding category of grounds for withdrawal is the distinction between two groups of Dutch. After all, a Dutchman without a second nationality who is convicted of the exact same crime is not withdrawn and other Dutch people do. Is it possible to state in such a situation that even then withdrawal is strictly necessary to protect an essential interest of the Dutch State, but that this cannot be done because of legal obstacles? Apparently we know how to take such measures that this group of Dutch people can live in our society. Does that make our society extremely dangerous? As far as this group is concerned, we have to deal with the functioning of criminal law. The fact that these measures do not apply to all Dutch people therefore raises questions about the need for a specific group. The government therefore makes a heavy distinction between two groups of Dutch. This requires a very important objective justification. My group does not think that this international commitment to one group is a convincing justification. This is all the more so because it is not a terrorist offence as such but merely a behavior that can be associated with it. I ask the Minister to also comment on the ECHR judgment in the "Hode and Abdi' case of 2013. In that case, the United Kingdom distinguished between two groups in exactly the same situation and also invoked international obligations. However, in response, the Court stated that this was not sufficient justification for making such a distinction. I'm gonna be happy to get an explanation about it later. I ask the Minister how he looks at Dutch citizenship. Traditionally, the consequence of naturalisation is that you become a citizen like all citizens in the Netherlands, with the same rights and duties. Revocation was a very high exception not so long ago. With the extension of the grounds for withdrawal, the question becomes more pressing as to whether we can also gain a different understanding of Dutch citizenship or have a different perception of it. Does the Cabinet consider it possible to be some kind of conditional right? My group believes that we should be very careful about this. We must not create first and second-class citizens. A Dutchman committing a crime is our Dutchman, our criminal, whom we must punish. In particular, let us invest heavily in preventing such crimes, in preventing radicalisation. Finally, the right of transition. In view of the principle of legal certainty, my group believes that the withdrawal should only be applied to offences committed after the entry into force of the law. After all, someone must know in advance what the consequence of his behaviour may be. Why does the cabinet not adhere to this principle? The Minister thinks he can apply this limited transitional right, because it is not criminal law. However, the Minister does not recognise the profound consequences I have outlined for this. That is why I am still pleading that the law should not be applied to crimes that have already been committed before the bill, if it is already passed, should the law reach the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u68	Mr. Chairman. The threat of terror has quite a grip on the Western world. The terrorist attacks we have been facing, the horrible events at Charlie Hebdo and last November in Paris, to mention a few recent examples close to home, have left deep traces, not only because of the human dramas and suffering they have brought, but also because of the fear and social instability that these attacks have caused. These examples are not isolated, but we must place them in the context of international developments: the instability on the edges of Europe, Africa and the Middle East and the violence of IS, which is the right thing to do to create political, social and social instability and which has no message of the values of our democratic rule of law. We must therefore place this bill as one of the government's measures to respond to this reality of terrorist threats in this international context. This legislative proposal extends the possibility of absolving the Netherlands in cases where there is assistance in committing or preparing terrorist activities. This is an expression of the fact that many people in the Netherlands have said to me that they should not be in any way facilitating the commission of foreign terrorist offences or the preparation of persons for the commission of terrorist offences. My group wholeheartedly supports the aim of the legislative proposal. The reason for the legislative proposal lies in the need to take action against Dutch people taking part in terrorist activities abroad, such as the so-called Syrians. It concerns both the travelling Syrians and those who train young people in the Netherlands to commit a terrorist offence. Originally, the bill provided that in the event of an irrevocable conviction, the person concerned would automatically lose the Dutch citizenship. Fortunately, in the opinion of the VVD Group, this element has been removed from the legislative proposal. It is the Minister of Security and Justice who has the power to withdraw Dutch citizenship, a discretionary power, a possibility to say it in domestic language. Each time, an individual balancing of interests, a weighting of proportionality must take place before nationality is withdrawn. What are the factors that will play a role in this? What criteria will the Minister have to assess? Can the Minister further highlight this balance of interests, that proportionality weighting? How will he express this in his decision? The Minister's decision is a decision within the meaning of Article 1.3 of the AWB. That decision must therefore meet the criteria laid down by the AWB, such as the criterion of further justification. The Minister is also being checked. It will be the administrative judge who will review the Minister's decision on appeal or appeal. Has the Minister been able to reach a reasonable conclusion? What criteria will the judge have to take into account? In other words, what criteria will the judge test? The principle remains that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship can only take place if it does not result in the person concerned becoming stateless. That would also be contrary to the UN Convention. So that will be a criterion in any case. How does the Minister deal with the possibility that the decisions he makes may be discriminatory? In the same cases, the Minister may take different decisions. In one case, the Minister deprives someone of his Dutch nationality because he still has a nationality. In the other case, which is exactly or almost the same as the first case in terms of facts and circumstances, he cannot make such a decision. A law is an instrument for achieving policy goals. It will not only be about the government, the Dutch who have been involved in terrorist crimes abroad or who in the Netherlands are involved in making preparations to take away the Dutch identity. Of course, that is not an end in itself. More importantly, participation in preparations for committing terrorist offences is strongly discouraged. What measures does the Minister intend to take in this respect? Does he want to indicate which have already been carried out and what its effects are? The VVD Group has assessed the proposal in question on the basis of the criteria of feasibility, enforceability and legality. To start with the latter: previous points of this bill have fortunately been removed, such as the automatic loss of Dutch citizenship and the commission of a crime as a criterion, rather than the irrevocableity of the conviction as a criterion for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. The VVD Group finds these essential points of improvement. Without this, she would not have been able to support the bill. It considers it important, however, for the government to provide clear answers to questions about the testability of the minister's administrative decision and the possible discriminatory nature of its decisions. In order to make a final assessment of the feasibility and legal status of the bill, my group looks forward with interest to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u69	Article 134a is not about committing terrorist crimes, but about aid and support. Does that still justify for the VVD that the Dutch community can be deprived in all cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u70	Providing assistance in committing terrorist offences is almost as terrible as committing terrorist crimes themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u71	Even if that didn't happen at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u72	Even if that didn't happen at all. We are concerned with the irrevocable conviction of the crime, as described in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-6.u74	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
