ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. Speaking time is four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u2	Mr. Chairman. During the summit, a piece of paper was written, so the Prime Minister now thinks that the Ukraine Treaty can be approved. The six points included have so little to do, that Ukraine does not even have to sign with them. As the Council's Legal Service writes, the decision does not alter the content of the agreement nor does it constitute a reservation on the agreement. In ordinary human language: it remains as it is; there are no changes. Well, and President Poroshenko crows victory. Rutte agrees, Poroshenko does not sign at all and is bound by nothing. Last week I asked the Prime Minister to give me a precise list of things that are different with the insert than without the insert. I didn't get an answer. I didn't get an example. Perhaps that was because the negotiations were in full swing then, so I am making another attempt: what changes are new and change the text of the association agreement? Last week I walked past the points. I'll do that again. Point A. It says that this association agreement is not an adaptation to membership. That's what the Prime Minister suggested before the referendum in Nieuwsuur. It doesn't say in the treaty that it does. In fact, at the request of the Netherlands, this was already left out in the negotiations for the original treaty. Nothing new. Point B. There is no collective security guarantee or obligation to provide military assistance to Ukraine. That's right, because that's not in the treaty. Point C. Ukrainians are not allowed to settle freely and are not allowed to work freely in the European Union; that is what countries are about. That's right. The Treaty does not give Ukrainians the right to work anywhere in the EU, so that is a correct explanation. It doesn't change anything; only membership would. I'd like to make one point. Imagine Poland admitting Ukrainians into the labour market. That's not entirely hypothetical. Can a Polish company put all those Ukrainian workers to work through a posting structure in the Netherlands? If the answer is yes, we'll get those workers here. Point D. Countries themselves decide whether to give Ukraine extra help. That's up to them. Also this week extra help has been given. Point E. The countries cooperate in the fight against corruption. It is true that they work together, but the result is not yet very impressive. Ukraine is just very bad at fighting corruption. I believe that a new revolution in Ukraine is near. Point F. Human rights are important and the treaty can be suspended if they are not respected. That is an important point, but given the way the European Union treats Turkey, it will remain a dead letter. In Turkey 120,000 people have been fired and torture is taking place in prisons, but we are simply negotiating for accession. I do not see it happening yet that the Union is going to force the investigation into the murder in Odessa, which really needs to be re-examined. Air and voidness, that sums up the statement. The CDA would like to know what things the Prime Minister thinks are different from this statement. Is this statement necessary to do justice to the concerns that arose from alleged false information from the neekamp? If so, what wrong information was that? I have two other points to make. My first point is the Brexit. The 27 Member States are simply going to negotiate content without Parliament being informed. I ask the Prime Minister to share all the documents confidentially with the Chamber within a week. I would particularly like to know what the Dutch commitment is. Now the Prime Minister proposes to inform Parliament about the commitment when the UK formally invokes Article 50, while the EU immediately establishes its position. It is very logical that the 27 EU Member States have long been negotiating a joint position, but remember that the Dutch Parliament will have to agree to the Brexit end deal. Then more openness is really needed in advance. My final point concerns Turkey. Has the Prime Minister heard anything about torture in prisons? Is torture taking place in the prisons that are paid with the 22 million EU grants? He would put that question to the first Vice-President and report on it. There is a Chambermotion to come back to this before 15 January 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u3	Mr Omtzigt, on behalf of the CDA Group, did not agree with what the Brussels cabinet had agreed. He also pointed out that there were concerns among citizens about the future of the European Union which were not sufficiently addressed. I recognize that statue. Does Mr Omtzig agree that Ukraine should be able to join the European Union by a simple majority of 76 seats under the current Dutch rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u4	We have allowed all 27 Member States, including Romania and Bulgaria, through the procedure of a simple majority. We voted against Mr Van der Staaij's own-initiative proposal, which was also appreciated, in order to apply other rules. If, by the way, the parties had realised this, they would have voted against the accession of Romania and Bulgaria, just like the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u5	Indeed, the accession of Romania and Bulgaria would not have happened if the demand for a two-thirds majority had been applied. Isn't that a good alternative to a referendum? The CDA Group says it doesn't feel like a referendum within representative democracy. Citizens are often concerned about too easy enlargement and about too many tasks going to Brussels. Why doesn't the CDA Group pick up the glove by telling us to do something about it? Mr Omtzigt could at least call on the CDA Group in the First Chamber, where this will be discussed on 24 January, to consider whether this would be a sensible route after the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u6	I think Mr Van der Staaij is confusing two dossiers here. He is talking about accession, but there is an association agreement for this. I haven't seen a bill to bring association treaties under a two-thirds majority. This particular problem would therefore not have been solved at all. Mr Van der Staaij was aware of the opinion of the CDA Group on referenda. We voted against the referendum law. We voted for a 50% turnout threshold. We voted in favour of an amendment that would exclude international treaties from the referendum law. If any of these amendments had been successful, they would all have achieved it with the support of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, but I believe that GroenLinks will soon be showing a different opinion on this matter..... we would not have had this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u8	I am not concerned that the association agreement should be covered by the constitutional revision. I am concerned about the situation of possible accession. Suppose Poland gets its way and Ukraine is proposed to become a Member State at some point. Then there is a proposal to that effect in the Dutch Parliament. That's what people are worried about. They were afraid that this association agreement was a stepping stone for possible future EU membership. It would be a very nice guarantee to be able to say to those concerned citizens: it is not easy; we are going to increase our demands for accession with a two-thirds majority. That fits exactly with the CDA's tone. Or do I misunderstand Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u9	Mr Van der Staaij misunderstands me. I do not mean to say that I do not think that the thresholds have been high enough in recent years, but that the parties in the House of Representatives, when it came to it, did not apply the rules of accession properly. With Romania and Bulgaria, it was quite clear that those countries were not ready at the time. Yet everyone agreed. In Greece, it was quite clear that Greece was not fit for the euro. The CDA Group voted against. In the case of Albania, last year, the VVD Group, shortly after the state elections, agreed that Albania would become a candidate country, although it said before the elections that it would not agree. That has nothing to do with majorities. It has to do with politics: outside you say one thing and inside you say the other. I'm very sorry about that. Outside this Chamber we say we are not doing it, and after the elections we simply agree and forget that promise. The VVD Group has agreed to Albania as a candidate country. This can also be done with normal majorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u10	Mr. Chairman. You shouldn't blame me if I don't congratulate the Prime Minister today. He stands here again today with the usual self-confidence, with the look of hope and optimism we are used to from him. With branie even, because, as he himself said, something big and important had to happen in Brussels. And he's got that right. Something big and important has happened: treason has been committed. The Prime Minister has committed a great and important betrayal to the 2.5 million voters who considered it very important to go to the polls that day. Why did those voters go to the ballot box so massively that day? Because they are concerned about the undemocratic EU, about the European Parliament that is not a parliament but a voting machine, populated by urophils who almost religiously want to go only one way: more EU, more federalisation. Under the guidance of almost hysterical politicians such as Verhofstadt and Van Baalen on their way to a Union in which the Netherlands is marginalized into a insignificant province on the outskirts of the continent. A province that is the largest net contributor. A province that is forced, without real democratic control, to massive payments of money, of prosperity, of its own jobs and even of well-being. A province that is not allowed to guard its own borders, which is not allowed to decide which guests and which guests are not admitted. A province that has to cough up money to facilitate a massive flood of Islam in our country, with all the dangers it entails: the terror that engulfs our beautiful continent, the dangers for our daughters, for our safety, for our entire culture, in which with the creeping Islamization even Christmas is now suspected and corrupted in the wake of the cultural murder of Black Piet. That is the public's concern. A "triumph," for example, the verbal acrobatics of the Prime Minister were mentioned by a large newspaper in the Netherlands. That says a lot about the alienation that the media are also suffering from. The government parties, the so-called opposition parties and in the slipstream of all those elite parties also the media, the servants of power, are alienated from the citizen. These critiques as a triumph can only be betrayed if you are a merry-go-rounder, a fellow-traveller, a useful idiot who is willing to ignore, betray the voter, in order to maintain the radical experiment that the EU is in. Against common sense that says that the European Union is not a sustainable model, because an EU without borders always leads to a flood of happiness seekers to the countries with the best social insurance systems, such as the Netherlands. Against the will of the people, who gave a crystal clear signal to this government at 61%. The signal was: we do not want a comprehensive association agreement with a poor, corrupt country on the border with Russia, a country that is also in a state of civil war. That was the voter's wish against the association agreement. I like to end up positive. The Party for Freedom continues. We may have lost this battle for this association agreement, and that war is far from over. We will win them, because we are on the right side of history, the EU and its bread prophets. Because everywhere, the citizen revolts everywhere. Everywhere the resistance starts against the elite who imagines having to interpret the will of the electorate, to translate it into clear choices, which ultimately improve the cosmopolitan elite and harm the people. That's the writing on the wall that the Prime Minister doesn't want to see because he's blind to it. The harder, the more stubborn the Prime Minister and his European elite behave, the harder he ignores the electorate who wants less EU and, more importantly, no more, the closer to an exit. The Freedom Party wants to table a motion of censure against the Prime Minister. I would ask for permission from the Chamber to do so, although that is unusual, in the first place. The prime minister's term isn't gonna change anything. It saves the Chamber a long time if we could vote on it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u11	It is common practice, and it is even stated in the Rules of Procedure, that a motion for a resolution must be submitted to the Chamber in the first term. I give the floor first to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u12	The debate culture that we have in the Netherlands since 1848 is debated first. The PVV can provide its input, then the cabinet can respond and in second term a motion can be submitted by the PVV. It now seems as if Mr Beertema is going to walk into the cafe and say: I would like to table a motion of censure, because I do not care what the cabinet says. D66 isn't part of that. That's the way it is in a banana republic, but not here in this house. I say to Mr Beertema: stay for a while and listen to what the Prime Minister has to say, so that you can table that motion in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u13	Mr Beertema used the term "treason" in his first term. According to Article 97a of the Code of Criminal Law, treason is a criminal offence with a possible prison sentence of 30 years. I would ask Mr Beertema whether he is thinking of this crime when using the term 'treason', because then we may also know what the PVV's view is that this motion should lead to. I would like to clarify this first. What does he mean by "treason"? Should we take that legally? Is that just pub talk from Mr. Beertema or does it lead to something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u14	Treason is indeed as we describe it. It's not up to us what happens with that. We do characterize what has happened as treason, especially since the law we are now discussing states that the Prime Minister will decide as soon as possible after the outcome of the referendum to repeal the Act of Approval or ratify the Convention. It has taken 260 days: 260 days of drifting, of sabotaging, of that vast majority of voters on the wrong track. I don't think the term "treason" is too heavy in this case. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u15	Mr Van Bommel, I would like to know whether you agree with the first-term motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u16	A motion does not seem to me to be the appropriate means. I think Mr Beertema should report a criminal offence committed by the Prime Minister. He's left in the middle now as far as he's concerned. Treason according to the PVV seems to be something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u17	The question is to allow a motion to be tabled in the first term. We also allowed a motion of censure to be tabled in the first term some time ago. I don't think that's a good line. It is much better and it is a good practice to hear the first term from the government and to draw conclusions in the second term. Because I want to stick to that rule, I wouldn't want to give permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u18	In addition to these rules, we all have our own freedom of expression here, including Mr Beertema. He was able to say what he wanted. We also have the debate, in which others can say what they want. We all have the freedom to say what we want here on this subject. It would be chic if Mr Beertema would listen to that, as we are listening to him at the moment. I think it would be better if we allowed him to table that motion in the second term, if he still needs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u19	I attach great importance to decent practices and also to parliamentary practices. This means that you debate first, at the end you draw your conclusion and then, if necessary, submit a motion. I do not support the request for a motion to be tabled at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u20	Same goes for me. The position of the PVV is very clear. I understand that Mr Beertema does not see any room for the Prime Minister to convince him in the first term. So I am aware of that, also in view of the previous motions of censure that have been tabled on this point, that that is the way forward. I've already spoken to you myself. I think it is appropriate not to interrupt the debate until the other Members have spoken. I therefore ask Mr Beertema to table the motion in the second term. Following what Mr Van Bommel said, I want to know whether "treason" is treason in the sense of the Code of Criminal Law. The reason for that is very simple. Normally someone else is about prosecution, namely the Public Prosecutor's Office, except when it comes to a minister. Then the declaration must be dealt with here in the Lower House. If Mr Beertema indicates that it is colloquial language, then we get it. If he means someone else has to do it, he's gonna leave it in the middle or he's gonna think there's gonna be a report. It is up to the Chamber to deal with that report, so I would like to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u21	Following previous speakers, no support for this request. Just in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u22	Normally I would not support this, if it were not a referendum with a very clear statement by the electorate. That is what we are talking about here, and it is now clear that this is the case again. In this case, because it is a voter's decision by means of a referendum, I therefore support the request that this motion of censure be tabled now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u23	Also support. 'Cause what's the deal? All parties have already expressed their views in the media. GroenLinks is going to support it and the Christian Union is not going to support it, so they have announced through the media. The SGP is the same. Why do you want to do the debate again when all the parties have already taken their position? It's really for the stage. It's a charade. D66 supports, of course. Yeah, come on. It would be news if they did not support it, but of course they will. Everyone knows that. So, Mr. Chairman, it's a charade. It's for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u24	The Party for Animals has prepared severe criticism to bring into this debate towards the cabinet. We agree, from the outset, that the outcome should have been respected. So I understand where the request comes from, but we prefer to be able to make our own contribution to the debate. The motion may then be tabled in second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u25	No support for Mr Beertema's request. I have listened to him for four minutes now, listening to his arguments. I would like him to do the same to all the other 12 spokesmen and perhaps even to the Prime Minister. In my view, that is appropriate in this Parliament. In any case, I would ask him to hold off on the motion of censure he has announced until after the government's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u26	Mr Beertema, the majority does not want a motion to be tabled in the first term. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u27	No, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I accept that. We shall wait for the Hague game, the Hague game, which is now going to take place here. There's not gonna be any new arguments. Mr Omtzigt was just talking about air and emptyness. That's what it's gonna come down to. I am, of course, fully prepared to sit that out, as are all of you. But don't tell me that this is going to be an adult debate after 260 days of training and sabotaging, the exchange of always the same arguments and the turning of course of a number of parties, which in itself is politically interesting. Finally, Mr President. My qualification of treason is a political qualification and I would, of course, prefer to see it rewarded with a broadly supported motion of censure, and I am counting on that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u28	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with a clear conclusion: although the Prime Minister has made a serious attempt to do justice to the no vote against the Ukraine Treaty, the final result for the SGP is certainly not sufficient. The SGP does not want to be nice about the Prime Minister's commitment and the result that lies ahead. It was no small matter to get the signature of all the Heads of Government here. On a number of points, the scope of the Treaty has been clarified and misunderstandings removed. Appreciate that. I do not want to look for nails on low tide with all kinds of questions. At the same time, the content has not changed, but has remained the same. Our main objection, however, is that the referendum did not refer to more than the text of the Treaty itself. Friend and enemy agree. If one thing has become clear before, during and after the referendum, it is that the social and political debate has become closely linked to the demand for direction of the European Union itself. The no of many citizens was a no to a meddling Europe that seeks to increase power and influence. Those objections are shared by the SGP. For many years we have expressed reservations about the excessive European interference and expansion drive. That is why we have always argued in favour of a more modest, thinner European Union. In short: more national sovereignty and less Europe. Those objections are not met by the package leaflet. We have heard many fine words about this from Europe in recent years, but where are the actions? If the treaty continues with a beautiful package leaflet, this confirms precisely the dissatisfaction and displeasure about the continuing European train. The SGP Group was not in favour of a referendum. We have warned that it can easily do more damage rather than give more confidence. However, that warning has gone in the wind. The referendum was held. The rash was clear. If we turn the no into a yes without really changing anything, we will only feed the unrest and displeasure. Let me give you a clear example. The package leaflet clearly states that this treaty is not a stepping stone to EU membership. At the same time, however, the EU's commitment to deepening relations with Ukraine remains valid. That's understandable. Nothing stands in the way of an application for membership at any time. It is not for nothing that Member States like Poland wanted to keep this perspective open. There are no actions to actually set up a dam against an expanding Europe. If such a proposal for the enlargement of the European Union to include Ukraine were made, 76 seats would be enough to get a Dutch yes. For years, the SGP has been working to bring about a revision of the Constitution on this issue. It should say: stop renouncing powers into Europe. It should be stipulated that at least two thirds of Parliament should agree to new enlargements. That law is now in the First Chamber. But what do we see so far? The Dutch Government says: we do not need it. Pro-European parties such as the CDA, D66 and the PvdA are whining: but then Europe will lock up, right? I am very curious whether there will still be a majority for this proposal in the First Chamber on 24 January, but I have a hard head in it. Not only in the Netherlands, but also in the EU itself, we see few signs of moderation. Developments in Brussels in recent times confirm the image of an EU that does not slow down and smells a new opportunity for additional powers in every crisis. The refugee problem? More Europe! The threat of Moscow? More Europe! That is not the direction in which we believe. That is why the SGP Group does not consider it wise, weighing everything up, to ratify the Ukraine Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u29	Mr. Chairman. I'll give you a few facts. D66 has campaigned for this Ukraine referendum. We said before and after the results that we would take the outcome seriously. After the disappointing no, my group wanted to follow the referendum law to the letter. So we wanted a repeal law as soon as possible, and then we wanted to talk to the no-comb and the European partners. The cabinet refused to do so, and that was not the way forward. Nine months later, the cabinet asked for extra time for a search for a combination of geopolitical responsibility and a substantive answer to the no vote. Everyone agrees that it has taken far too long. But the Prime Minister did make good use of his injury time. In any case, he has a statement from the European Heads of Government to do justice to the concerns of the no-voters. It is legally binding, it seems, in the same form as after referendums previously held in Denmark and Ireland. At the moment, of course, it is about the content of the decision. What exactly is the deal? As far as accession is concerned, things are crystal clear. This agreement will not make Ukraine a candidate country. There is no commitment to grant that status to Ukraine in the future. The decision also makes it clear that there is no collective security guarantee. There is no military cooperation obligation under this agreement either. I understand, moreover, that the Netherlands will make a declaration to the Act of Approval specifically stating that the Kingdom has no obligation whatsoever to participate in military cooperation. Can the Prime Minister explain that? Is this comparable to the national declaration annexed to the Amsterdam Treaty? Are other matters not covered by the previous law also covered by the law on approval? It is also clear that this agreement does not provide access to the European labour market and that it does not lead to additional financial support for Ukraine. Finally, it becomes clear that the fight against corruption is essential for this association agreement. I read that the Heads of Government can take appropriate measures if Ukraine fails to do so. What kind of measures are these? How is this decided? I'd like to hear that from the Prime Minister. D66 is now looking forward to the adoption of the law on approval, which is the moment when it comes to the conclusion of this process, which has now lasted almost a year, and of course the Council of State's opinion. I hope that we will be able to debate this as soon as possible, so that the electorate can finally get the necessary clarity. This clarity has often been lacking during the referendum campaign and beyond, but I shall deal with that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u30	I came across the following quote these days: the electorate has spoken; the treaty cannot continue. It belonged to a Kees Verhoeven. Now there are more "Kezen" and "Verhoeven" is also quite a common name, but does that statement look familiar to Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u31	That statement doesn't look familiar to me. Mr Van der Staaij says that I would have said: the electorate has spoken; now can the treaty continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u32	That is the current course of D66, I understand, but I was referring to the quote by one Kees Verhoeven which says: the electorate has spoken, the treaty cannot go on. That was a very short, clear text.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u33	No, no, no. All the parties here are constantly pretending that we would have said: this treaty cannot continue. We have the referendum law. That's our own law. It states that the procedure is such that after a referendum there will be a repeal law. We have always said: make that repeal law and then go to the table with the no-camp................................................................................................................................................................................................. But the cabinet has always said: if we withdraw it first, then there is nothing left to negotiate. So the cabinet didn't do that. Then the cabinet asked us: will you give us time to find a solution that does justice to the no vote? At that time we said that it was months ago that we were okay with that. That's how it happened. I think Mr Van der Staaij's quote is a little shorter. We have always said: follow the referendum law. The cabinet didn't do that. Then the question of the cabinet was: give us time to find a solution. We have said: that is good. And that's what the Prime Minister's been doing in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u34	I read it in the NRC Handelsblad. This paper generally reflects the views of D66 fairly faithfully, but of course something can always go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u35	You look like the PVV, now that you are linking newspapers and political parties, Mr Van der Staaij!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u36	I commend the newspaper for the care with which positions are expressed, but apparently something went wrong here. Is the D66 Group still as enthusiastic about the referendum as it was at the beginning and says that what is happening now and the route that is being taken now is the way it should be, in which we can really say to each other: "Great! Give me another one of those referendums. That's it. That's it. This fosters the confidence of citizens in democracy"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u37	No, D66 has binding referenda as its ultimate goal. This is a form in which referenda are not consultative but binding. That proposal has already been made and submitted by D66. A number of parties in this Chamber are full of citizens' confidence. Those same parties that keep their mouths shut on citizens' confidence are holding back this binding referendum all the time. I believe that Mr Van der Staaij also belongs to one of those parties. He's nodding. So yes, D66 is and remains in favour of referenda. Our final goal has always been binding referendums. We discussed last week in the debate on this referendum that this consultative referendum and the whole way in which it was conducted could be improved. That seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u38	D66 now says "agreement" against this treaty................................................................................................................................................................................................... One of these points is: no extra money. So does Mr Verhoeven. What is the interpretation of the "no extra money" communication? No extra money on what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u39	I have had this discussion both with Mr Van Bommel and with others in rooms, but I think I have had her most often with Mr Van Bommel. I think we've been in a room somewhere in the country four or five times to talk about this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u40	There were more of them, Mr Verhoeven, but your memory leaves you in the lurch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u41	My memory may have pushed away some of those encounters. There were more of them. Each time Mr Van Bommel spoke of certain things. Ukraine will become a member of the EU. Ukraine is going to get more money from the EU. Ukrainian workers are all coming to the Netherlands to take our jobs. The Netherlands, together with Ukraine, must fight against Russia. Those were all texts that the SP kept saying. Many people then voted no because they were concerned about the things that Mr Van Bommel, among others, said. This is now being dealt with by making it clear that all the issues claimed by the SP are simply not correct. That seems to me to be a very good step, because then you do something with the concerns of the people who voted no. The same applies to the financial paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u42	Twisting reality; that has become the hallmark of D66 in relation to this treaty. The claims made here by Mr Verhoeven cannot be upheld. My party has said nowhere that this treaty will lead to membership. My party has said nowhere that we should work together to defend Ukraine. That's not the issue at all. That is why we object to this list. This list would remove a number of promises, but those promises have never been made, they have not been in the Treaty and they have not been made after that. These promises are meaningful. That is why Ukraine doesn't have to sign for it, because it doesn't go wrong. I ask the D66 spokesman how he understands the announcement that no extra money is going to Ukraine. According to Article 453 of this Convention, the relevant European Union funding mechanisms are simply made available to Ukraine. There is therefore no doubt that extra money is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u43	Mr Van Bommel now pretends that it is exactly the same in one of the sections as he suggested in the campaign, but that is not the case of course. The fact that the SP now... Mr Van Dijk did this last week, and I think that is very brutal. You've been making all kinds of claims for months. You're constantly trying to scare the voters. You're just trying to exploit your electoral advantage and make political profit with a campaign on a serious treaty. You are constantly frightening voters with all kinds of arguments that are demonstrably false and none of them were in the text of the treaty. You constantly claim that there are interpretations and mechanisms that are going to bring it all about. Then parties who want to do justice to the no vote will do something about the substance of the important concerns raised by Mr Van Bommel's party and by the other leaders of the camp. Next, Mr Van Bommel is here on the microphone. Mr Van Dijk did the same last week to tell us that it is nothing and that it is not good. Mr Van Bommel, I would almost like to say to you: what are you thinking? In any case, D66 does not participate in this strange policy of dismantling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u44	This is the world upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u45	This is indeed the world upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u46	This is the world upside down. Our story is that the promises supposedly received by the Prime Minister have no meaning at all, because they were not in the Treaty. That is why we have never said that. If we had said so, we would have praised the Prime Minister by now. Then we would say: Prime Minister, you really did bring in something! But it's not like that. Article 453 does say that the relevant European Union funding mechanisms will be made available. It has not been demonstrated with previous treaties that extra money is going to Ukraine. It concerns European and Dutch taxpayers' money, which gives D66 away again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u47	We're not giving anything away. Mr Van Bommel says that what the Prime Minister has now achieved in the form of a five-point declaration is nothing. In fact, he says that all his arguments during the campaign were nothing either. That is the circle in which the SP rotates and in which the voter has turned a wheel in front of his eyes. That has happened in a very harmful way. A lot of people have gotten scared of that. These people's substantive concerns are now being removed by means of a legally binding declaration. I think that is a very justified effect in itself; I must say 'attempting to develop', because we still have to get the law. Everyone in the Chamber has already taken a stand, while the law is not even there yet. I think that is better than saying that everything goes wrong, and then running away as soon as something is done with the concerns of the Dutch citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u48	Mr Verhoeven constantly speaks of the same solution as after the referendum in Denmark and Ireland. After that referendum, however, a legally binding text was drawn up which Denmark and Ireland co-signed. This made binding changes that went against the Treaty text: Ireland, for example, kept its European Commissioner, and Denmark was given an opt-out for cooperation in the fields of home affairs and justice. Those were just changes. I have two questions about this. How does Mr Verhoeven of D66 assess the fact that Ukraine does not even have to participate? And which of the things that Mr Verhoeven has just appointed change the text of the Treaty? He says: no membership, no collective security guarantee and no access to the EU for all workers in Ukraine. Those three things were in the treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u49	Almost all politicians are now going to ask questions about the treaty. I have always said the following about the treaty in the campaign. What does it say? One is not in the treaty and the other is. In the end, people voted no because they have certain concerns. So we can talk about the treaty all the time, but parties like the SP and the PVV have constantly read all kinds of things in the text of the treaty that were not in it. About the entire House of Representatives now seems to forget that it concerns the concerns of the Dutch citizen who voted no. The statement relates to matters contained in the statement. The concerns of the Dutch citizen are as follows. Ukraine is going to become a member of this treaty. That's not gonna happen. Ukraine is going to get a lot of extra money. That's not gonna happen. Ukraine is going to send many employees who take our jobs to Dutch. That's not gonna happen either. Ukraine and the Netherlands commit each other to joint military operations vis-à-vis Russia. That's not gonna happen. No mandatory safety arrangements have been made. So that's what it's all about. With regard to Mr Omtzigt's second question, of course there is a difference. That is because all the things that are now settled are on the side of the European Union, as the Prime Minister explained last week. So if the European Union says that it does not want to deliver certain items, and it is okay that the Netherlands does not deliver them, Ukraine does not have to sign for them, because they are things that concern the European Union itself. That is a difference from the Danish and Irish situations at the time. That referendum was not about a third country. So there's the difference in that. I believe that the Prime Minister said that last week, and I believe that these words still apply. So Ukraine's failure to sign in does not say anything about the fact that the 28 EU Member States have decided not to allow this to be the interpretation of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u50	The Legal Service states that this decision does not alter the content of the agreement. By that, he means the association agreement. This decision does not constitute a reservation on that agreement either, i.e. according to the lawyers, nothing changes at all. It is very interesting what D66, the great champion of referenda, is doing now. A question has been asked about a treaty; you say yes or no to that treaty; then we interpret it as a completely different question, namely as a question about the concerns of citizens. If you do that, you have to hold a referendum on those concerns and not on the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u51	It is striking that parties such as the SGP and the CDA now present me with all kinds of positions on referenda, even though they are blocking everything in this area. Instead of dive into the technique all the time, that happened during the campaign, but it was apparently not important at that time, we now have to address the concerns of Dutch citizens. Dutch citizens are concerned about a number of issues that would result from this Treaty. If you want to listen to the Dutch people, to the no-dock and his concerns, then you have to do something about those concerns. This is what the cabinet is trying to do. D66 has given the time for this attempt and now says: we are very curious about the precise anchoring in the approval law, but it looks good at first sight, because the five points are indeed addressed in a legally binding manner. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u53	I see that Mr Omtzigt nods in agreement when he hears that last answer. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u54	As far as the Acts are concerned, I would like to say that it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u55	As I said, we look forward to the adoption law and the corresponding opinion of the Council of State. I also said that I want us to be able to debate that law quickly because that clarity is so important. This clarity was often lacking during the referendum campaign, especially because of the dubious role of the no-comb. That is what I am saying to Mr Van Bommel and Mr Beertema... has created many myths and fables to frighten people of this agreement. Ukraine would become a member of the EU. Ukraine would get billions. Ukrainian workers would come and take our jobs. We should fight with Ukraine against the Russians and so on. Now these concerns are addressed and disassociated and the neekamp suddenly says that it's nothing. That kind of demolition policy really doesn't get any better; that's also a reproach towards this cabinet, which didn't campaign enough when it could, to take away those myths and fables. Only when it became really critical, when it got really hot under the feet of the Prime Minister, did a cri du coeur arrive and suddenly there were references to the horrors in Aleppo. I don't call that leadership; that's what I call sprinting because you're moving too late. I would say to the Prime Minister: let it be a lesson for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u56	Mr. Chairman. In the run-up to the referendum, people were consistently concerned about a number of issues. For example, they are concerned that this treaty will lead to the accession of a corrupt country such as Ukraine to the European Union, that this treaty could lead us to war, that this treaty would lead to a bag of money going to Ukraine and that this treaty would flood us with cheap Ukrainian workers. These concerns were reflected in the outcome of this consultative referendum. Both during the campaign and after the outcome in this Parliament, the VVD immediately indicated that we want these concerns to be weighed down. But we have more concerns, more and more. The VVD is concerned about our security, stability and freedom and how Russia is trying to create chaos and division in the West, in NATO and in the EU under Putin. We cannot close our eyes to the illegal annexation of Crimea, or rather that of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. We cannot close our eyes to his stunt in the Donbass, to the Russian role in triggering refugee flows from Syria towards Europe and to the drawing up of ballistic missiles at the EU border, with the explicit possibility of a nuclear charge in Kaliningrad. All this is no reason to hate Russia, but it is also no reason to lie on our backs. We have to stand for what we find. We are talking about who we trade with, who we make agreements with and who we conclude treaties with. We must not allow division; we must show a strong unity, especially with regard to Russia, which can only respect that. With all these concerns, the Prime Minister has started to work. It has taken a while, but our Prime Minister's mission in Europe has led to a legally binding decision on top of the treaty addressing five major concerns about what this treaty could mean and how it could be interpreted. The agreement does not result in EU membership for Ukraine or an obligation to provide military support. The agreement does not impose any additional financial obligations on the Netherlands. It does not give Ukrainians the right to freely reside or work in the Netherlands. In addition, the fight against corruption has become an even more essential part of the agreement. In the event of a breach of these agreements, the agreement may be terminated. It is now up to us elected representatives of the people to reach a decision. The outcome of an advisory referendum is a major opinion, but it is our responsibility here and now to weigh all interests. That's what I'm running away from, and that's what my party, the VVD, is not running away from. We have not been chosen to go blindly after polls or simply to act as a relay for a consultative referendum. We must weigh all our interests. That is what the VVD said before the referendum, and that is what she is still saying. It would have been so much easier for my party to pull the treaty right through the shredder and not send the Prime Minister out to deal with those concerns. But real leadership is not to avoid difficult issues, but to tackle them stubbornly, in the interests of the country. That's what happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u57	Mr. Chairman. Total untrustworthyness. Prime Minister Rutte is soaked with it. His Ukraine deal is a disgrace in recent political history. The Prime Minister has abandoned more than 2.5 million Dutch. He betrayed our democracy and our country. The insert doesn't change anything about the treaty. The Netherlands is not fooled by such a piece of paper. The voter sees that the Prime Minister considers the interests of corrupt Ukraine to be more important than the democratic voice of the Netherlands. A majority in Parliament will vote for ratification. For the Labour Party and D66, a no already turned into a yes, but GroenLinks also changed her position last weekend. These three parties, who submitted the proposal for the Advisory referendum Act, therefore reject the result of the referendum. It's not gonna get much more ironic than this. The cynicism among the population will continue to grow. We have already indicated that we no longer have any confidence in the cabinet. We shall therefore support with conviction the motion of censure which has just been announced. The VVD again shows its true undemocratic nature. More and more VVDs are also getting this through, such as former Council member and Member of State Chris van den Bos, who, also following the outcome of the Ukraine referendum, cancelled his membership and found his way to my party, VNL. We say to all other disappointed VVDs: you too are very welcome to join the only right-wing liberal party in our country. VNL does not choose Brussels or Ukraine, but always for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u58	Mr. Chairman. On 6 April, a national referendum was held on whether the Dutch electorate agreed to a free trade agreement with Ukraine, the most corrupt country in Europe. The answer was convincing "no." A large majority here promised to respect that choice. The treaty had to leave the table, so found a large majority of the parties. In particular, I would like to mention D66 and GroenLinks. The Prime Minister promised to come up with a repeal law if the substantive objections could not be met. That promise was remarkable, because the Prime Minister had no idea exactly what those substantive objections were. After all, the electorate had spoken on nothing but a simple question: 'Are you for or against the law approving the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine?' To that simple question voters gave a more than clear answer: 61% said "against." That was crystal clear, but nevertheless the cabinet decided to go fishing in cloudy water. Didn't the voters actually say no to Brussels? Weren't the voters actually fooled by the initiators? Were the voters sufficiently aware of the content of the treaty? We received the answer from the National Referenceum Research of the University of Nijmegen. This showed that voters knew very well what they said no to. They did not want cooperation with the most corrupt country in Europe. The Prime Minister is now coming up with a legally binding declaration, which even the national attorney says is in no way related to the content of the Treaty of Association rejected by the electorate. The cabinet has invented a number of imaginary objections and now, with an appendix to the treaty, plans to guide ratification of the treaty through the parliament. In this respect, D66 and GroenLinks are now on the verge, just like the Labour Party. Their clear language of respecting the outcome has resulted in weak knees. The Animal Party continues to say that we do not want to be associated with the most corrupt country in Europe, which is a back door for the import of Ukrainian battery eggs and Ukrainian pork and is therefore the death mark for Dutch farmers. This is not the only point in the public's opposition to European decision-making. In 2009, the European Member States agreed to remove dangerous toxins from the market: hormone-distorting substances that can cause autism and cancer. The European Commission made that commitment. Slow down, train, weaken the proposals and then pretend to keep your own appointments: a recognizable pattern. This was not done openly and transparently, so that we can control and adjust. No, it was all sneaky. Now that documents have been leaked, we know what's going on. While the citizens are told that the European Union will protect them from hormone-distorting substances by agreement, Brussels in the backrooms says to Canada and America: no, don't worry, the trade agreements we want to conclude with you will not be compromised. Now that that has been leaked, Brussels has proposed that this weakened proposal should be put to the vote very soon. We received a letter from the cabinet last night about this. The votes are acute; they will take place tomorrow. They are about a proposal that does not do what has been promised, and the cabinet intends to agree to it. Since there is no other way to properly monitor this perceptive tactic of the European Commission according to parliamentary practice, I shall table a motion in the second term on a subject which is not on the agenda this evening but which will lead to decision-making in Brussels tomorrow. We want the cabinet to vote against the proposal for hormone disrupting substances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u59	Madam President. The Prime Minister has taken his much-desired spoils: a statement of three pages that should do justice to all the concerns of the "no' voter, more than eight months after the referendum was held and 61% of voters said "no' to the whole treaty. The people on the street will ask themselves: "Is this democracy? The government asks me for advice and a majority of the Chamber says in advance that it will follow the outcome, but then the treaty continues." But not one letter in the treaty has changed. And this is all thanks to a Prime Minister who said at a congress of his political blood group two weeks ago: "Too often the elites in Europe say: the citizens do not understand. But it's not. You do not understand." Does the Prime Minister recognise that the Dutch citizen is being treated in exactly the same way as the elite he encourages to listen better? And what part of the no has the Prime Minister actually not understood? It's crystal clear, isn't it? Now that it is finally clear that the Prime Minister is disregarding the electorate's judgment, I ask him why he did not say straight away: thank you for your advice, but we will continue with our plans. That would have been pure. Now he's acting like he wants to meet the voters in full. That's hypocrisy. This is also reflected in the statement, which states: "Guided by the desire to address these concerns in a way that fully respects the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement and the EU Treaties, and is in line with the EU's objective of deepening relations with Ukraine." In other words, the political and economic association with Ukraine, to which the electorate said 'no', continues unchanged. Does the Prime Minister recognize that? How does he view the Council's lawyer's view that the draft decision does not alter the content of the agreement? You can't argue with that, can you? The failure to ratify the treaty would be the biggest gift we can give Putin, says the Prime Minister. He didn't show much of that during the campaign. Faced with a result that he doesn't like, he scratches behind the ears again and exerts a lot of pressure to win agreement with the electorate and politics. Speaking of scare-making! He does not seem to care that he is putting further pressure on the tense relationship with Russia. I come to the so-called concerns raised in the statement. Let me briefly mention them: no commitment to membership, no collective security guarantee, no additional labour migration, no additional financial support and more anti-corruption. For some of these points, they were not even in the Treaty. That has never been said by us. That doesn't alter the following facts. The Treaty aims to deepen Ukraine's economic integration and the deepening of its political association with the country. To this end, Ukraine must adopt the European acquis. In the long term, membership is more likely to come into sight. Ukraine is also free to apply for membership at any time. We do not need this treaty for that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u60	Just now, Mr Van Bommel also said: the SP never said that this treaty would be an adaptation to EU membership. Is he gonna repeat that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u61	No, the SP says "it doesn't lead to." That is a fundamental difference. You are as powerful a Dutch language as I am. I don't understand why you don't understand. The Convention does not state that signing this Convention will lead to membership. It does make Ukraine more suitable for that membership. There are many things that need to be taken on board that are European. Ukraine can simply apply for membership. That is simply a right of the countries that lie in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u62	So you never said it was a stepping stone to membership? Then I would like to put a quote to you: "Yes, of course it is not literally in the treaty, but it is clear when you read the treaty that it is going that way. Let's not cheat people. This is a stepping stone to EU membership." I'm not making it up myself. I've reported it before. This is a quote from your own SP leader. So that's what he's saying. He claimed that in the campaign, more than once. Your colleagues from the SP have also said this on several occasions. And now, like your colleague, Mr Van Dijk, who stood here last week, you say: no, we did not say that; that is all a semantic matter. Sorry, you said very loudly: this is a stepping stone to EU membership. I am simply quoting Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u63	Mrs Maij, I make Mr Roemer's words mine. That is exactly what I am saying. This treaty will make Ukraine fit for the road to the European Union. All kinds of things that are regulated in Europe in the socio-economic and financial fields are taken over by Ukraine. Ukraine can also apply for membership of the European Union at any time that Ukraine so wishes. You can actually think of this as an opsuit. I disagree with you on that. You will never find the quote in which we have claimed that this treaty leads to membership of the European Union. It doesn't say that, and I've always fought that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u64	That is, of course, exactly what has been said and exactly what has been put forward by your party. This treaty "leads to," "is an adaptation to" EU membership. You just said: Ukraine can always apply for membership. But that has nothing to do with this treaty. That's exactly the fog and the fear you've raised. For example, there are a number of other points. A lot of cheap workers are coming to the EU, said your own leader. This treaty is going to send billions to the corrupt government, so did your leader. These are all points addressed in the government's letter. Actually, I'm wondering why you're not just standing aside cheering. Everything you have claimed in the campaign is addressed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u65	Mrs Maij cannot win the first point and then goes on to the following points. Mrs Maij says that something that leads to membership is the same as something that is an adaptation to membership. Mrs. Maij, that's just not true. Go back to the Dutch lesson you had in primary and secondary school. "Leads to membership" means that it comes out automatically. A "adjust" is a step towards membership, something that could lead to it. I have said that Ukraine can apply for membership at any time. That is quite simply the case. This applies to all countries in Europe, so Ukraine can also do so. Let us also see how the discussion has been conducted in Ukraine itself. You know that, too. In Ukraine itself, President Poroshenko said: yes, but of course we simply want membership! It is Ukraine's strong desire to apply for membership. So it is not at all a discussion from the absurd, but a discussion that started in Ukraine itself. This association agreement is a second best for Ukraine, because it wants to become a member. I don't blame them, but we're not going to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u66	Finally, Mrs Maij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u67	To be honest, I found the first part of the answer a little murky. I think we're discussing the substance. That's fine with me too, because I like to do that, but this way I find it uncomfortable. The statement now also states that it is not a prelude to membership; just as Mr Van Bommel wanted it to be. Again, I think he should be happy with what's been arranged for him. All those people who have emailed or called me about it that the SP says it's about membership, I'll email all of them back and say that the SP suggested it, but they didn't mean it, because they meant very different things. So these people are scared for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u68	It would be nice if you could send me a copy of that, so I can give those people our opinion. When the PvdA SP views are summarized, it goes wrong, in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u69	I believe that Mr Van Bommel is now trying to conceal with a great deal of words, a ghost play and language tricks that the SP fooled the electorate in the campaign on this treaty. With some sort of language puristic trick he tries to get away from the words of Mr Roemer and himself. Why can't Mr Van Bommel admit that the SP completely fooled the electorate during the campaign?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u70	Because it's not. We have conducted a pure campaign, and we have dealt with the association agreement. We mentioned the article numbers. We compared it with association agreements with other countries, such as Morocco, Chile and Israel, where all the European Union's policies are not in place. This is the most far-reaching association agreement the European Union has ever concluded, with a country where people shoot each other because of political views. Mr Verhoeven wants that. He then said that he would respect the outcome of the referendum. And then there's a rag and then he walks away from it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u71	Mr Roemer and Mr Van Bommel have said that this treaty is taking steps towards membership; that this treaty will bring billions of European Union citizens to Ukraine; that we will have to work militaryly through this treaty and fight together against the Russians, and that is very dangerous geopolitically. Those are all things that have been said by the SP and have caused the voter to worry. Then people listen to the concerns of the voters, and then the SP says: yes, but that's not the point. Can Mr Van Bommel tell us what this is all about? Why isn't the SP just happy that all the worries it's been pumping into it over the past few months will prove wrong? Why isn't the SP happy about that? The SP should say that she's very happy about that, instead of saying that it's nothing, that it's a rag? I thought that campaign was a rag.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u72	Mr Verhoeven must stick to the facts. Then come up with quotes that we have said that we must fight with Ukraine against the Russians. That is what Mr Verhoeven says here with dry eyes. Show me one newspaper article or one report of a debate in the Chamber or tell me where that has been said, because it has not been said, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u73	Let me get this straight. The SP has suggested in all possible ways things that were not there and has frightened the voters. Many examples have been mentioned by the PvdA colleague. I have always been in rooms with Mr Van Bommel where he said these things. Membership has certainly been discussed. People should be worried about membership. There were supposed to be workers coming to Europe. This treaty would bring additional billions to Ukraine from Europe. None of that's gonna happen. The voters have been frightened by things that were not actually in the treaty. It would adorn Mr Van Bommel if he admitted that he did so, without it being based on facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u74	In all the statements made by my group chairman, myself, Mr Van Dijk and others, we referred to the Treaty itself. I myself asked for Article 453 in the event of interruption, which states that Ukraine is eligible for the relevant EU mechanisms and instruments of financial support. Isn't that crystal clear? Then you can't say that this treaty doesn't allow any extra money to go? According to Article 453, Ukraine is eligible under this Convention for a number of financial instruments. You can be for or against that, but what it says, it just says. The same applies to Article 10 of the Convention, which lays down enhanced military cooperation under the CSDP (Common Security and Defence Policy). Those are just provisions in the treaty. We're not making that up. If you make it possible for us to fight with Ukraine against the Russians, I say: come up with real quotes. Now it turns out this is just your interpretation. Well, I can't do that much with an interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u75	Does Mr Van Bommel remember what the SP's campaign song was during this Ukraine referendum? Does he remember the name of that campaign song? Maybe he can sing it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u76	I'm not gonna risk it. I don't do quizzes, either, inside or outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u77	I wouldn't do it either, because the campaign song was called: Why should Europe be bigger? Now you are here pretending that you did not claim and did not make the suggestion, in all the debates we had with you, on TV, in rooms and here in the Chamber, in agreement with this treaty, that there would be a risk that the EU would be enlarged to include Ukraine. You sang it. Your political leader said it on TV. You have also suggested it several times. I don't want you to do textexegesis afterwards after you've done all kinds of bombastic spells in advance. Then be a man and say here: what has been achieved means that 28 Member States have now said that this cannot result from this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u78	I'm repeating myself. Membership has not been mentioned anywhere as a consequence of this Convention. No mention has been made of this leading to membership. There is, however, an oppaign, such as qualifying and so on, with the possibility of applying for membership. That is the political reality. Aren't you gonna walk away from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u79	Mr Van Bommel is constantly returning to Rule 453. This would mean that money would have to be transferred to Ukraine as a result of this treaty. The article in question states that there are instruments outside this Treaty which already allow money to go to Ukraine and that Ukraine must meet the objectives set out in this Treaty. It does not say that this treaty leads to money. To ensure this, there is now a declaration signed again by 28 countries, which clearly states that Member States themselves are concerned about whether additional money is going to be paid and that there will be no additional obligations for Member States, not even by this Treaty. Does Mr Van Bommel recognise that this is an addition? This is an essential addition, which will absolutely wipe out any interpretation he has put forward in the campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u80	I do not agree with Mr Ten Broeke. When it comes to EU mechanisms, there is no additional obligation bilaterally. However, it is about EU mechanisms, about EU money, about the pot in Brussels. Indeed, the Netherlands is not going to give extra money to Ukraine. However, Ukraine is eligible through Brussels. That is the essence of this article. It says: eligible. In other words, this is not yet the case, but by signing Ukraine is eligible for the relevant EU mechanisms and instruments. This is therefore a new development which is being initiated by this Treaty. It's just in this article, I'm not making it up!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u81	Finally, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u82	Allow me to mention one more, because we can also complete the whole list. I have had an extensive debate with Mr Van Bommel on this programme, NOS Buitenhof. In this report, Mr Van Bommel, at a high and low level, claimed that this treaty could lead to labour migration to the European Union and thus to the Netherlands. Call me the famous Polish driver, but now from Ukraine. This was true for workers and also for free workers. The statement that has now been adopted will once again close it. Therefore, 28 countries have said legally binding, without any interpretation, that they are themselves about who they allow from Ukraine into their labour markets and who they do not. Does Mr Van Bommel at least recognise that this has given him the clarity he sought in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u83	Yeah, paper's patient. It's a paper reality. We saw it in the Poles. It was going to be 20,000, but it's more than 200,000. Why else would Ukraine be? Visa-free travel is in this treaty. Yeah, that's a separate route, and it's been going on for a long time, it's been said. That may be so, but this text of the Treaty provides a solid legal basis for this. The intention of free movement of persons is therefore indeed present. That will include employees, people who want to work here. I understand that, but I don't think it's desirable. I think that we should set up a dam against this, because that is not good for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u84	Please continue. You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u85	For military support, I would like to refer to Article 10, as I did in an interruption. Article 10 of the Convention lays down enhanced military cooperation, including within the framework of the Common Security and Defence Policy. Article 453 has also been discussed in interruptions. That is about extra money, because these mechanisms will become available. That's what that article says. The problem of combating corruption is perhaps the most difficult one. The National Referendum Research 2016 showed that corruption was the main motive for people to vote against the treaty. It sounds nice, a statement in which you stress the importance of fighting corruption once again, but what does it turn out to be? Ukraine, which is fully responsible for the fight against corruption, does not have to sign this declaration at all. That is completely unbelievable. I am very much in favour of fighting corruption in Ukraine, and we should continue to do so, as we have done before through the neighbourhood policy, but we do not need this treaty for that. Firstly, the Ukrainians must do so themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u86	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks was and is firmly in favour of the association agreement with Ukraine. We voted in favour of it in the Chamber and, in the run-up to the referendum, we also campaigned very strongly for it. We are in favour of support for the people of Ukraine, who are fighting for a better future, for support for the people of the Maidan Revolution, who risked their lives for a better democratic future. That weighed the hardest for us. The Green Left voters in the referendum, unlike other emperors, have stood up massively for a yes. They have voted massively, for more than three quarters, in favour of the association agreement. The result of this referendum was very disappointing for us. A no came out. For my group, this led to a great dilemma. What do you weigh the hardest: the result of the referendum or your own reasoning and the line of your own voters? What are you wearing? In this dilemma over the last few months, my group has chosen to prefer to follow the outcome of this referendum, however painful it may be. We do that with a great deal of pain in the heart, because the camp has used false arguments. The turnout was limited, because in the end only 20% of the Dutch voters voted. But you have to choose. This is why our members chose a different course at the conference last Saturday in a spicy discussion. They have said that we do not want to subordinate our solidarity with the Ukrainians and with this process to the outcome of an advisory referendum. They asked the group to follow that line. The statement made by Prime Minister Rutte in Europe does play a role, albeit modestly. Let us be clear that the Council's decision, let us just call it the Rutte deal, is addressing the false argument from the no-comb, taking it as a starting point and dealing with it in a firm and authoritative manner. It has value and weight. At the same time, it is no secret that we, like many other groups in the Chamber, will say that most of the votes against will not be convinced. That's too bad. After all, it was a question of the opponents wanting to show a very general and unfounded anti-EU feeling, to a large extent. Then you don't convince with arguments. That's too bad, but it's a fact. In that sense, the statement is relevant, but certainly not decisive. Sec could say that she does not do enough justice to the consultative referendum. All things considered, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has decided to give particular leadership to our Members' desires. We shall therefore vote in favour of this treaty. It is very important to make one more comment on the fight against corruption, which has also been included in the Council's statements. I urge the Prime Minister to ensure that that is not a dead letter. There is a very clear warning to Ukraine: if you do not take this seriously, we can use instruments, up to and including the suspension of the treaty. That can't be a dead letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u87	In the light of what he said earlier, this was indeed a surprising contribution by Mr Grashoff. After last Saturday's congress, this is understandable. What does this mean for GroenLinks' view of referenda? Will the GroenLinks Group now follow the GroenLinks voters in referendums? If so, what is the point of the referenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u88	Mr Van der Staaij makes a very relevant point here. I didn't call it a dilemma for nothing either. We do not say from now on: whatever comes up with consultative referenda, never mind. You really have to see this in the context of the referendum process, of the turnout in the referendum and of a very strong conviction among our own Green Left supporters that this is what we want, that this is really our very specific preference. All these things added together eventually led to the final result. I can't make it prettier than it is. I would hope that Mr Van der Staaij will find himself in such a dilemma once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u89	I hope not, Mr. Chairman. This is precisely an argument for me to say: what a strange thing such a referendum is. You're actually saying that something's so important that you want to hear the citizens' opinion about it. Then you say: yes, but we have a very strong conviction that what we ourselves find is better than the result of the referendum, so let's do that. Then you are organizing something incredibly complicated, with which you, as GroenLinks, end up creating more discontent than you do to serve the citizen better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u90	That's right. It's also complex. In this sense, I do not entirely disagree with Mr Van der Staaij, but he does give a somewhat too simple picture of things. That you organise a referendum and that you think it is an important means, depending on the conditions that you attach to it and the issues that are dealt with... For us too, this is another moment of reflection, also on referenda. In what way can you reconcile your parliamentary responsibility in a parliamentary democracy and your own politically organized constituency with such a direct instrument? Let me honestly say to Mr Van der Staaij that we are not quite sure yet. Mr Van der Staaij may be, but let me speak for myself: I am not quite sure yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u91	My advice would be not to hold a referendum on this issue, but simply to choose the best one with good substantive reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u92	I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij for his excellent opinions. There will definitely be another discussion within GroenLinks, also about referenda. Our congress has also made statements about this. We really have a few things to keep in the light. However, we will not throw away any old shoes until we have new ones and we will maintain our support at the moment, including that of the referendum proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u93	I understand that the GroenLinks Congress has determined the course change. Mr Grashoff said that Congress has led to the Prime Minister's being followed in the signing and approval process. He didn't say that Congress was a way to do that, but that it led to it. So that was compelling. That brings me to the next question. If GroenLinks had not had a congress, would she have maintained the line that a no in the referendum should lead to not ratifying?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u94	I think Mr Van Bommel has a serious point. But there was a convention. There was a very clear statement by Members. That's crystal clear. An internal party democracy must also be taken very, very seriously. Mr Van Bommel will agree with me. I know the SP as a party that takes its own programme and its own members extremely seriously. The situation is as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u95	We will not fight the facts. There was a GroenLinks Congress and that is where this decision has been made. However, that GroenLinks Congress was not there to discuss the Ukraine referendum. That GroenLinks Congress was there because there are elections coming up. The question is: isn't it just opportunism at the moment, a coincidence of the congress that was there, which actually forces you to deviate from the line you first politically defined?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u96	If Mr Van Bommel takes the word 'opportunism' in his mouth, I am going to react a little more clearly. I think that from the outset there has been a very high degree of opportunism in the whole set-up of the SP in this whole. The SP has been like no other party trying to fool voters with false argumentation. In this case, the SP happens to have a party position and a result of the referendum that were mutually exclusive. If that had not been the case, the SP would have come into a very solid dilemma. I would give that to Mr Van Bommel and his party. That helps common sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u97	Apparently, this hurt! This hurt more than I expected. Because I simply asked: is it not because of the accidental GroenLinks congress, which was held because elections are coming and because some decisions still have to be made, that GroenLinks is suddenly being bullied by its own members in an important international treaty and on the direction of the European Union? Just by a coincidence! Isn't it worrying that your views are being taken up in this way? It's a bad time for the SP, you might say, and that's opportunism. No, it's not. I would expect you to just say here: I do this reluctantly, but Members want this; in fact I do not agree, because I actually think what I thought was right, namely that the Dutch electorate should have been honored.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u98	No, the latter is not the case. Mr Van Bommel asks: does it hurt? Yes. Yes, Mr Van Bommel, it hurts when a serious dilemma is put away in such a way, in a faint and opportunistic way. That doesn't give a pass. Let me say again: I am proud to be a member of a party that can think in nuances and dilemmas. I would like to wish the SP a chance to try that too. This does not make life any easier, I admit to Mr Van Bommel, but it is extremely pleasant to have that understood. Yes, things can be like a dime on his side and either one way or the other. In such a situation, in such a dilemma can and should not be the case that you would completely ignore a statement from your own members, who are three thousand together at a conference. I do not think that would be appreciated by Members, but that it would actually be a very special one from a democratic point of view. I can't make it any prettier. Dilemmas are there to finally tie a knot, and that is what we have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u99	Madam President. Eight months ago, the Netherlands was asked: "Are you for or against the law approving the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine?" The Christian Union Group is opposed to Ukraine's accession to the European Union, but is in favour of cooperation with that country. It was therefore in favour of the association agreement. It is also clear that we are not in favour of the consultative referendum, and we have been confirmed in that by the aftermath of this referendum. But the referendum took place. Our citizens have been asked for advice. The turnout threshold has been reached and a clear and valid no has sounded. This means that we are now faced with a difficult balance. That's what my group feels. It is a balance between the democratic damage that will result from ignoring the no vote and the geopolitical interests at stake. My group also sees these geopolitical interests. They don't weigh lightly for us. At the same time, we must also be realistic. Failure to ratify this treaty would not be the end of the relationship between Europe and Ukraine. Much remains to be done, for example a treaty between the European Union and Ukraine and bilateral treaties. On the other hand, the democratic damage will be great in ignoring the no vote. Ignoring the outcome of the referendum will deepen the gap between society and politics. It's a lot harder to fix. I can only conclude that the 'no' vote of the Dutch people is part of a growing inconvenience about the European Union and about European cooperation. This inconvenience was also fueled by the choices made by the cabinet following the outcome of the referendum. After eight months, the cabinet has come up with a legally binding solution. That solution is: nothing changes. In its opinion on the draft decision, the Council attorney states that the decision does not change the content of the agreement or constitute a reservation on the agreement. Otherwise, it wouldn't be legal. So nothing has changed compared to the treaty which the Netherlands said no to. Ignoring the 'no' vote in this way is democratically damaging. This will further undermine confidence in politics. It strengthens the feeling: what we say doesn't matter, Europe goes on without us, but it does about us. This is detrimental to our country, and it is also detrimental to the support for European cooperation, which is in so many respects a victory for our continent. It increases the fault lines in our society. As far as my group is concerned, justice must be given to the 'no' vote which sounded in April. This has always been the starting point that I have repeated here in the various debates on the outcome of the referendum. But sometimes democracy is also lost, and sometimes you have to take your loss. We appreciate the efforts made by the Prime Minister, but we come to the conclusion that ignoring the 'no' vote will deepen the gap between citizens and politics and further undermine the basis for European cooperation. Therefore, considering everything, the Christian Union Group cannot support the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u100	Mr Segers says that the gap is not bad when it comes to Europe. I can feel that with him. He's against a consultative referendum. But is he sensitive to the idea that if you make it a binding referendum prior to that, you contribute to that gap, to the feeling that this is a pacifier? This debate must also take place, because there must also be a balance to be struck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u101	We had a party committee led by former GPV member Schutte. He said that this is precisely the dilemma in the consultative referendum. The problem is that it will become a de facto binding referendum, because ignoring it is an almost irrefutable road. That is precisely the objection to consultative referenda, with which a majority of the House has saddled us. If this is another consultative referendum on a treaty in which many countries are party, then that is an almost irrefutable road. But the cure was there and it was used. The voice has sounded and there is a valid outcome. A threshold has also been built in and it has been met. We're past all that discomfort, and now there's that statement. Then the question is how do you go back to that voter who said no? Can you look it right in the eye?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u102	We are all faced with this means, whether you were for or against it, whether you wanted to make it binding, which our Constitution says cannot, or not. You mentioned Mr Schutte, someone who made the necessary constitutional contribution in your party. We were chosen here without burden. We don't know binding referendums. A law has been passed here, Kamerbreed, which has made the consultative referendum possible. You were against it and I was against it. Then we have a duty to weigh. You yourself say that these geopolitical interests have weighed very heavily for you, but apparently not hard enough to follow the law here. What does that say about your constitutional role here? You're making the gap bigger. You'll find the cure worse than the ailment. What have you done today about the ailment by making this position a de facto binding referendum with the adoption of an advisory referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u103	I believe that almost all parties have said in advance that the outcome of the referendum must weigh heavily. My group has also said that it must weigh heavily. There has even been a group that has said that it will take over the result and that it will come back to it later. That's extremely painful. This has given rise to expectations. The outcome would be weighed heavily. We have always given the Prime Minister room to speak, but we have also said that we must do justice to that no vote. If there is a treaty with a declaration in it which the Council attorney says does nothing and adds nothing to the treaty that is there, then that is too little. That is not enough to go back and say: then this is the goat path we can walk about. It is not enough for the public to be deeply concerned about European cooperation, which is becoming ever more extensive and deepened. If he can then speak out on it and say no, then that no will eventually be put aside. Do you know why this democratic damage weighs so much on me? That is precisely because of Europe, precisely because of European cooperation. If we undermine support in the short term, we will pay a much higher price in the long term and that price is not worth it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u104	That's legitimate. If you want to broaden that confidence in the European Union, we are all looking for ways of doing so. We've been listening. We have heard objections, very consistent objections. Some five of these objections have now been met. You refer to the Council's legal advisory service all the time. It says that it is laid down how Member States will deal with the Convention from the time of ratification by the Netherlands on the points set out in the Decision. It becomes part of the legal history. There's no room for interpretation anymore. Everything that you can distrust, about how we deal with Europe, how the European institutions deal with Europe and, above all, how the other 27 Member States intend to proceed with that Europe, has now been cut off with this declaration. There is no longer any interpretation on those five points, which you believe were real. What else was supposed to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u105	I never mentioned those five points. Those are points that have been mentioned by others. They are an interpretation of the no vote. Last week, in the debate, I asked Mr Verhoeven what such a statement could do or add to that treaty. The answer didn't make any sense to me. It was not clear to me what that statement did or added to the treaty. I quote the Council's lawyer: 'But, as indicated below, the draft decision does not change the content of the agreement nor does it constitute a reservation on the agreement'. So it doesn't add anything, and it doesn't affect the treaty as it stands. Why is this serious to me? This has to do with first of all the support for European cooperation. We are always committed to this cooperation. It's not a federation, it's a partnership, and it's a blessing. It's a blessing for this continent. My fear is that if we stretch the support, the rack in relation to the voter and that what he can wear, the elastic can burst endlessly and we are farther away from home. All the way to the end. We have talked about fault lines and gaps in our society here, politicians. I wrote a book about it myself. For that I have looked into people who say: I am not listened to, I am on the sidelines, I am extremely sceptical and cynical about what is happening here and the people who are sitting here are not there for me. That's part of society, not everyone. My passionate plea in that book was to cross over to those people and to share them, including the European project. That's my bet here. Then we can differ in the final balance. That has not been a black and white weight for the Christian Union. You heard that in my contribution. That has been an extremely difficult consideration. In view of those people, whom we often do not hear, I have made that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u106	No, Mr Ten Broeke, I will not give you the opportunity to interrupt again. Mr Verhoeven would also like to ask one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u107	I remember Mr Segers saying the word 'cosmetics' last week. In any case, he said that what is now being added, in his view, does not propose enough, does not change enough or is not sufficiently binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u108	Well, I know very well who took the word "cosmetics" in the mouth. That was Mr Verhoeven. He said it must not be cosmetic, it must be legally binding. Then I asked: but how does that statement make the difference to the treaty that Mr Verhoeven and I defended, the treaty as it stood? The answer to that question has not become clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u109	No, but I will put the following question to Mr Segers. He rightly says: I am concerned about the people who voted no. He says: we must show these people that we take them seriously and we must ensure that the gap between them and politics does not widen. He says all that in a very solemn way, and that graces him. But what, according to Mr Segers, were the concerns, the arguments, the substantive reasons of those no-voters? If Mr Segers does not want to say anything about it at all and simply says that we should not interpret it, then he is not at all interested in the substantive concerns of those people he says are taking them so seriously. So what were the concerns of the people who voted no, according to Mr Segers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u110	It's not about what I think it is. The only sensible thing that can be said about this, I say on the basis of a study by the University of Nijmegen. It says: to a large extent it was the treaty itself. People said no to that. They've taken notice of it and they've said no to it. That was a large part of the background to the concerns. My group has always taken a step backwards and said: the government rules and the cabinet must take the lead. We, together with Mr Verhoeven, have insisted that there should be rapid clarification. We have already done so in the debate in which Mr Van Bommel tabled his motion. Mr Verhoeven also signed that motion. It said: there must be a withdrawal law and we must start again; business as usual is not possible. That was the commitment of the group of D66 and that of the Christian Union. In the course that followed, we have given the cabinet every time. At the end of that trajectory, you have to take stock of the situation. Then you have to ask yourself whether what is now there is enough and does justice to that no vote. In addition, the only thing we know is that the voter has largely been guided by the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u111	Mr Verhoeven wants to respond to that. Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u112	I'm just allowed to interrupt three times, Mr. Chairman. I haven't been here that much, so I guess it's not so bad. This is an important point. The parties who now say that it is not enough, that the annex is 'a rag', or that it does not do justice to the 'no' vote, are all walking away from the content. They all go to the legal side and now focus on treaty rules and technology. That is allowed, and these matters are also part of the debate. But all those who are now suddenly no longer in favour of a substantive solution are in fact running away from all the substantive arguments that have been raised in the campaign. Why is Mr Segers taking part in this? I understand that the SP and the PVV do, because they have scared the people first and they now see that fear is being taken away, which means they are getting the ammunition out of their hands. But I think Mr Segers is much more serious in this debate. Why is he running away from the content behind the "no" vote? I don't want to hear what D66 has done wrong right now. That would not please Mr Segers. Why don't you let him turn this in himself? I believe that this content is important. Why does Mr Segers no longer have an eye for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u113	I think this is a wonderful question. I'm not running away from that no vote at all. Is there any justice to that no vote? I have said every time: that question is the only criterion on which I and my group will assess the proposal that the cabinet comes up with. Is that no-vote being done justice to? I am sorry that I have to point out that the D66 Group's approach consisted in proposing that the entire treaty should be removed from the table and that we should talk to the no-comb again. Probably would have to have a new treaty. That is a far more radical solution than what is now before us. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament has tabled a motion for a resolution to wind up the debate. So that went quite a step further. I've been more modest. I said: Cabinet, get on with it, where the question referred to is my criterion. I said go talk. The cabinet has once again specifically asked: give us the room to go to Europe to talk about this. We've given that space. Then at the end of such a trajectory you have to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u114	Mr Verhoeven, let me finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u115	Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure. Don't worry, Mr. Chairman. It's a debate. Sometimes you're having altercations with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u116	Yeah, but that doesn't mean endless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u117	That's no offense. I just want to see where we stand. Mr Segers goes into the procedure all the time. D66 would have preferred a different procedure. That's what I just said. You should have repealed that law and then started to work on the contents; that is what D66 said. That's what Mr Segers said. Nine months later, the Prime Minister said: I am looking for a substantive solution. And Mr Segers says: no, I do not want to participate because of all kinds of procedural, legal arguments. My only question to Mr Segers, which can simply be answered briefly, is: what does Mr Segers think were the main reasons for the substance of all those people who took no action on 6 April? Let Mr Segers simply answer that, so that we can see whether the content of what the Prime Minister is proposing is something. Or Mr Segers says: no, I have all come up with legal arguments to vote 'no'. You can, but just say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u118	No, I've never applied a reason. I said in an explanatory statement today that it was a struggle and it was a struggle. We have really weighed all the pros and cons, because it is not black and white, as it is quite black and white on the flanks here in the Chamber. With us, it wasn't black and white. It was a genuine struggle with all the pros and cons and I indicated what was the deciding factor. But when I say that the no vote must weigh heavily and conclude that the statement that is now before us does not change anything about the treaty, all this is not sufficient to go back. What this whole episode teaches us, at least, is not meant to be you-bak, but I do see that as a task for the coming period... is that a treaty involving so many countries and so many signatures must be signed, subjecting to an advisory referendum is a bleak road. That is a road that we must reconsider. We must reflect on the means of the referendum. What lies now with the promises made before the referendum, which we cannot live up to, is a hopeless path, which in fact undermines the support not only for Europe but also for our democracy. I would like to move on from that reflection. I hope that the D66 Group will continue to reflect on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u119	Mr. Chairman. My first question concerns migration deals with Mali. Mr Koenders had proudly returned from Mali with a deal. Then, this weekend, she reported that the Malian government wasn't aware of that. Can the Prime Minister clarify this further? The second question concerns the further development of the defence fund. Can the Prime Minister indicate how that is going to relate to our relationship with NATO? Is the European army going to be there after all? Then I come to the Ukraine referendum or let me call it Mark Rutte's clothes. After the summer we saw commercials from a man who surprisingly resembles the Prime Minister wearing a suit, only with a loose shirt. In it he announced: I have a plan. What that plan was wasn't entirely clear, but he had a plan. Then he put on a suit and went to the VVD Congress, where the proposers were very clear.... was decided that there was a different policy towards soft drugs and coffeeshops. Then the Prime Minister was asked: what the VVD Congress said is clear, isn't it? Then he said, "No, it can go either way." Then he took off his suit and said, "Sorry for the past few years." Then he put his suit back on and said, "Verhofstadt is a good guy." Then he took off his suit again and said: Europe must not go too far. When he was out of that suit, it was a trade deal. Then he put on his suit and it was a geopolitical matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u120	And then you ran out of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u121	It is extremely unfortunate that the electorate was shirt-downed by this dress-up party of the cabinet. As a former member of the PvdA Group, I have made an agreement and I will stick to it. It is a pity that no repeal law has been tabled. Go back to the voters with this proposal. Write a referendum. That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u122	Mr. Chairman. If you don't mind, I'd like to say something very different first. Inside your lodge is the ambassador of Germany. I would like to express my condolences to the victims of yesterday's attack in Berlin and to all their loved ones. I think it's important to think about that, especially now that the ambassador is here. The PvdA was and is in favour of the association agreement with Ukraine. At a time when instability and insecurity are increasing around us, the agreement is an opportunity to support a vulnerable neighbour of the European Union. This is not only in the interests of Ukraine, but also in the interests of us. Just as international tensions are increasing, we have a great interest in stability and greater prosperity in the countries on the eastern border of the European Union. It is now important for Europe, the Netherlands and Ukraine to continue working together internationally in order to find solutions to problems together. At the same time there was the result of the Ukraine referendum. As we have said, this result cannot be without consequences. That is why we have given the cabinet the opportunity to give a place to the most important objections of the no-voters. A number of points were at the forefront. The Treaty must not be an excuse for membership of the European Union. The treaty must not mean that Ukrainians can just come and work here. The Convention should not require military cooperation or the provision of military assistance. The promotion of the rule of law in Ukraine should be central. The solution must be legally binding. The legally binding declaration now before us responds to these concerns in black and white. For the Netherlands and Europe, it is clear that this treaty is not a prelude to EU membership, that Ukrainians are not allowed to work here, that it does not oblige us to provide military assistance and that there will be no additional financial resources. In addition, there will be an emergency brake. If Ukraine does not meet the demand to fight corruption, the whole treaty will be iced. I am pleased that the government has managed to enforce a legally binding declaration. I congratulate the government, the Prime Minister and the officials sitting in the bench on the right side of the Chamber. It is difficult to obtain a result and to come up with solutions. It's harder than calling on the sidelines. It was a long process and the solution seemed far away. It sometimes took a long time, but there is now a statement that not only concerns the Netherlands, but also binds all EU partners. I thank the government, in particular the Prime Minister, for the efforts. The PvdA is now free to take the next step towards ratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u123	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to welcome the German ambassador. The Chamber will commemorate this week's attack in Berlin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u124	Mr. Chairman. Germany is grieving. We grieve along with our neighbour. I find it special that the German ambassador is here tonight. Yesterday I gave my German colleague, Angela Merkel, our Dutch condolences and promised her all the help. It's downright horrible what happened yesterday. We are all very shocked and very sympathetic to Germany. I was glad to hear that there will be another commemoration in the House of Representatives, in which more detailed consideration will be given to it. Tonight's main topic is how we proceed with the association agreement with Ukraine. I would like to say again briefly why the government is doing what it is doing here. We are dealing with a consultative referendum. Immediately after the outcome, I said that the outcome must have consequences; it cannot be that we continue to ratify. We have considered how to deal with that result. There are several possibilities. You can decide to take over the result unchanged, you can put it next to you or you can check whether you can address the result in substance. In the end, we decided to do the latter. It is the government's belief, of me personally, that these days we cannot afford the luxury of giving Russia presents. It would be a great gift for Russia if the Netherlands decided to break European unity against Russia by rejecting the association agreement. That was the substantive conviction of the cabinet to look for a substantive answer to the no vote. This led to the legally binding decision of the Heads of State or Government taken last Thursday. I see Mr Van Bommel at the interrupting microphone. Mr President, if I may, I will finish the introduction. Then Mr Van Bommel can interrupt me all evening long. With this decision, therefore, the no vote has not been ignored. I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Segers, who claimed that this was the case. I fundamentally disagree with that. The no-voice hasn't been ignored. The no-vote has received a substantive answer, just as it is possible within the rules for the consultative referendum that applied here: you can take over the result, you can completely ignore it or you can try to deal with it in substance and wisely. Those are the options. There is no automatism in the Temporary referendum law, which deals with the consultative referendum. Why is that so essential? Because there was another interest in this. This other interest has ultimately to do with the fact that the Netherlands is embedded in European cooperation. For the VVD, of course, it is mainly about market, jobs and successful trading with each other, but it also offers collective security for a small country like the Netherlands with its great prosperity. If there are major geopolitical issues at stake, then we must think very carefully about whether we want to harm this European unity. Such major issues are at stake, given the Russian stance of 6 April, but also in recent months, with regard to the Minsk process, but also with regard to the increasing interference with the situation in Eastern Ukraine, the occupation of Crimea, the installation of missiles between Lithuania and Poland and the violation of NATO airspace. If we look at all these things, the Netherlands simply cannot afford to say: we are damaging European unity. And yes, I have said it before: if I had looked at it electorally, I would have known what I had done. Then it was, no is no. Electorally, that might have been the most convenient choice, but as Prime Minister, I don't have the luxury of just looking at party interests. First of all, I must always put the country's interest above party interests. I believe that we have done so here. I will also explain this and defend it in the further reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u125	Were you finished with your introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u126	Yeah, these were the introductory words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u127	I would like to hear from the Prime Minister when the cabinet has realized that not ratifying would be a gift to Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u128	The whole element of Russia and the instability at the eastern border of Europe have also played a role in the referendum campaign. I myself have drawn attention to this at a number of times. I also said afterwards that I should have done more. I should have emphasised this issue more and others probably should have, but it has played a role in the campaign. The fact is that in recent months the situation has been further strengthened and I have also sought support for a substantive response to the Ukraine referendum. That was not possible at first, but because of the continuing disruptions of what is happening in Eastern Europe, on the eastern border of Europe, particularly as regards Ukraine itself, but also in Kaliningrad, I, together with Bert Koenders and the entire cabinet, came to the conclusion that I had to make a final attempt. That's what I did at the press conference on Friday, October 28th. That was my last chance to carry out the Pechtold motion in which I was asked to present a letter to the Chamber before 1 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u129	In the campaign, I did not hear the words "a gift to Russia" from the Prime Minister or other cabinet members. I don't see how it would be a gift. Rather, I think that the attitude of the cabinet is now contributing to a further escalation of the conflict, which is indeed there. I also see the risks of that. I also see Russia's actions, which my group has also been strongly condemned at times, also with support for sanctions against Crimea. But to act now as if there has been a geopolitical deterioration in recent months. That is not in Ukraine; it is perhaps around Syria or on other issues in international politics. What has been so decisive in recent months to suddenly call it "a gift to Russia"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u130	I do not need to remind Mr Van Bommel, with all his experience, of what has happened in the last few months in the relationship between Europe and Russia. Look at the increasing failure to implement the agreements surrounding the Minsk peace process as regards the situation in eastern Ukraine. Look at the recent decisions from Russia to permanently deploy missiles between Lithuania and Poland, two NATO Member States. There are now just rockets placed in the enclave Kaliningrad. Look at the violations of NATO airspace, which continue and continue. Look at the ongoing and increasing evidence of cyber interference from Russia. In view of all these things, it is clear that we, the Netherlands, have an interest in choosing an extremely strong position in European cooperation with Russia and making it clear that we do not think this is the time to place presents under the Christmas tree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u131	Finally, Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u132	I ask the Prime Minister to look also at the actions of NATO, Europe, the Netherlands and other countries. The desclation is what has been missing on one occasion, including on the part of the European Union and NATO, with exercises and with troops. The geopolitical game being played here is dangerous. That is why it is important to look at all the actions and not let a trade treaty, as the Prime Minister mentioned earlier, be a crowbar in the relationship between Europe and Russia. Russia will always be Europe's neighbor. We cannot afford it, Europe cannot afford it, to take steps that will further worsen that situation. I hope the Prime Minister will take that into account in his geopolitical considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u133	I think this is an incomprehensible interruption, because it actually means that Mr Van Bommel says: NATO is at least as guilty of the situation as Russia. As if NATO has occupied Crimea! As if NATO is interfering with Eastern Ukraine! There are all indications of far-reaching Russian involvement in Ukraine and in Donetsk, which are splitting off from Ukraine. As if it is NATO that is setting up missiles in such places that it is directly disrupting the stability between Russia and the NATO alliance! As if it is NATO that is constantly in the process of violating Russian airspace! We shouldn't pretend it's some kind of fifty-fifty relationship. There really is a great responsibility of Russia here. Any international expert will agree with me when I say that rejecting the association agreement in Moscow is considered one of the main objectives of Russian foreign policy at the moment when it comes to disrupting unity in Europe and weakening Europe in its position vis-à-vis Russia. I am not going to give that gift to Russia. Mr Van Bommel would apparently do so, and I will fight for it, even though it may not always make me great in the polls; we can see that. Mr Verhoeven asked for Rule 478, which deals with the appropriate measures. That may indeed be the suspension of the agreement in the extreme. We have noted that this is also possible if Ukraine fails to comply with the anti-corruption agreements. Mr Grashoff also referred to this. I know that this point also plays a role in his First Chamber. The General Reviews in the First Chamber called for detailed attention to be given to the issue of the fight against corruption in relation to Ukraine. I have noted that correctly and I agree with that. That is one of the reasons why we were very motivated to include this firmly in this decision of the Heads of State or Government. The measures should be proportionate and preceded by appropriate measures. Then, of course, the question arises as to what these measures might be. It may be about stopping the exchange of culture and education. The agreement sets out agreements on cooperation in the field of science and technology. We can decide not to implement these types of programmes. And again, there is also an ultimate sanction, namely that the agreement itself is suspended. There is an increasing need for radical measures to be taken prior to this. We deposit the article 10 declaration with the instrument of approval because this is important for the Netherlands itself. That is not, therefore, one of the things in the decision of the Heads of State or Government. If the Parliament agrees to the law which provides for the entry into force of the Act of Approval, the Netherlands shall, by means of the Act of Approval, deposit a declaration on Article 10 of the Association Agreement, namely that it does not entail any obligations. In fact, this is also stated in the decision of the heads of state or government (HOSOG). In that sense, it's double-up. We want this precisely because it is a very jumping point and because it is important that as a Dutch parliament, together with the government, we commit ourselves to all rights in this respect. It has a different status than that of the Act of Approval of the Treaty of Amsterdam because when Parliament was asked not only to approve the Treaty but also to agree to the various declarations made by Member States when the Treaty was drawn up. That is not the case here. In addition to the HOSOG, or in addition to the decision of the Heads of State or Government, we make that declaration on Article 10 of the Association Agreement when we deposit the instrument. Mr Verhoeven asked whether I can confirm that no additional funds are going to Ukraine. Yeah, I can confirm that. You can look at the financial flows in three ways. Firstly, it is a question of national money. The HOSOG are also very clear about this. Secondly, European money goes to Ukraine, but it goes through existing programmes. Article 453 of the Association Agreement also refers to existing programmes. Thirdly, the question is whether the ceilings of the programmes are going up. They're not going up. The impact on the labour market for workers was also called for. There aren't any. This isn't about employees. As is well known, nothing changes with the Association Agreement for Ukrainian workers. This was confirmed once again in the declaration of Heads of State or Government. Progress in the fight against corruption has been called for. Mr Grashoff also referred to it in substance, regardless of the importance he attaches to it, also in relation to the declaration by the Heads of State or Government. We can see in substance that Ukraine has made progress on this issue over the last two years. In particular, I can say that the new government led by Prime Minister Groysman has certainly not avoided painful reforms so far. She's really picking it up. We also see this in the area of public administration. Ministries have become more transparent. All registers of land and Furthermore, an important step has been taken in the fight against corruption with the roll-out of an electronic declaration system aimed at publicising the sessions and salaries of government officials and politicians. Until the President's office, these records have been entered. A special anti-corruption unit has been set up to prosecute major corruption cases. This office is currently examining the data generated by the introduction of the electronic declaration system. It is important now, therefore, that we are absolutely not here yet, although steps are being taken to ensure that the Groysman administration not only focuses on the adoption of new laws and the establishment of these bodies, but is now firmly implementing them. Therefore, it remains essential to work with Ukraine on implementation and on reforms. This is what the Dutch cabinet does in its contacts with Ukraine. We always point to the preservation of the momentum that has arisen over the past two years in terms of implementation. In that sense, I can assure Mr Grashoff, Article 478 will not be a dead letter for us and now for the 28 EU countries. If Ukraine does not make progress in the fight against corruption or, worse still, if the situation deteriorates, the suspension measures based on Article 478 are seriously reflected. I come now to a few questions that are no longer about Ukraine. I think I have answered all the questions about Ukraine, but I would like to look around to see whether the Members of Parliament feel the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u134	I feel that the questions of the GroenLinks and D66 groups have been answered. That they got priority, we get that today. I had asked three questions myself, but none of them were answered. The first question was: please give me one case or all the things that are different as a result of this statement, which change the treaty. So what changes will be made to the Treaty by points A to F?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u135	I'll answer that. Is it okay if I answer the questions each? Otherwise, I'm gonna have to write them down. With regard to the first question, we had a very detailed debate last week. I thought it was a rhetorical question, but if Mr Omtzigt appreciates it, I would certainly like to answer that question again. I would like to repeat a little bit of the preparatory debate. This decision of the Heads of State or Government gives a legally binding interpretation to the Association Agreement. This has also been confirmed by the Council's Legal Service. This makes it part of the legal history and is part of all the documents that are part of the treaty. It thus sets out how Member States will deal with the Convention from the time of ratification by the Netherlands on the points set out in the Decision. This means that this must be taken into account in legal disputes. This is similar to a number of previous cases, including Denmark. We also saw this in the Edinburgh Treaty. We also see that last week I explained in detail how the European judge dealt with this in a concrete judgment. It is, according to the Council's Legal Service, also part of the general acquis, that of the European Union. Last week there were a few questions left. The first question was: is the text itself going to change the association agreement? No, it doesn't change. We are now legally binding on how we interpret the association agreement with each other. The second question was: should Ukraine not sign in? No, that's okay. According to the Vienna Treaty, the 28 Member States of the European Union can, in this case, make legally binding agreements with Ukraine and decide how to deal with them. We have now done so on all the points that are now before us. These are all things that the European side of the treaty with Ukraine regards. That is why it is not necessary for Ukraine to commit itself to this. I think it is important, however, that I had extensive contact with the President of Ukraine on this matter last week about the debate, and that Ukraine finally says: we accept that this is happening. In fact, Ukraine has finally said that it is very happy that this is happening now. However, it does not need to be legally committed, because I would like to say once again that it is about matters that play on the European side of the association agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u136	In itself, that is a clear answer. So it doesn't change a letter to the Treaty and Ukraine is not bound. It gives an explanation, some clarification. In this way, it is quite different from the treaties concluded on the occasion of Denmark and Ireland. These countries were given specific derogations, for example in the areas of justice and internal policy. They were specifically promised that they could keep their commissioner. This also changed the treaty itself. This isn't where the treaty changes, it's where the explanation changes. That's okay, but that's a lot less. My second question was: is this statement necessary to do justice to the concerns that arose from supposedly incorrect information from the neekamp? If so, what information was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u137	I would first like to respond to Mr Omtzigt's reaction to the first point. I think it's a little silly. Can I put it that way? Oh, and also a little unworthy of the CDA. I can imagine the CDA saying: elections are coming and the leader of the VVD as foreman of the cabinet is now doing something we might be able to drag a seat out of, so you know what, we're against. I'll leave that to the CDA. And indeed, Mr Verhoeven, I cannot imagine, just as you make it clear in your bench, that the CDA is doing so. I have to reject that thought, too. That can't be true. There's got to be some way to figure out why the CDA is doing this. I can't explain what the CDA is doing here anymore. To say that what lies here is nothing and to make it small... Sometimes I doubt I should bite and go into it. Well, I'm gonna take a bite now. To be honest, I find it incredibly faint and childish, because Mr Omtzigt knows exactly what we are doing here and also sees the parallels with what we did earlier this year around the United Kingdom, Denmark and other countries. Now I come to his second question: what points are being addressed? We discussed this at length last week. These are all the elements that have been highlighted in detail in the Ukraine debate. I also said last time that it is ultimately a selection made by the cabinet; it is always arbitrary. For example, I would like to look back at one of the most important debates that have taken place, namely that between the then chairman of the Labour Party, Diederik Samsom, and the chairman of the Socialist Party, Emile Roemer, at Nieuwsuur. That was actually a culmination point of all the fog that was created from the neekamp about what would or would not be in the association agreement. This was about accession, money, military cooperation and free movement of workers. I said the following about this last time. As far as accession was concerned, I understood that this fog could arise. This was not possible because of the text of the association agreement, which does not say that Ukraine can join, but rather because of the text of the preamble to the association agreement, combined with statements by the Ukrainian President and a number of leaders from Europe. I outlined all that last week. Although I still argue that what I said at the time was true, namely that it is not there, it is true that a lot of people could have an image, because of all the statements made by senior leaders in Europe in conjunction with the very evocative text of the preamble to the association agreement, that this could be a first step towards accession. I think it is important that it has been established that this is not the case and that this Convention does not oblige Member States to do so in future on the basis of this Convention. I think that's essential. This is now legally binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u138	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u139	I had three questions. We're only at the second, and I'd like to respond. What the Prime Minister is doing here is repeating what he himself said before the elections. He said: it is not an accession treaty. It is not, it is not a step in the right direction, and we have never argued that. The statement does indeed have much less legal value than all the other statements to which it refers. I'm just gonna give this to the Prime Minister. On the basis of the fog he finds that arose because a number of people in the camp used a number of arguments, such as membership, giving help and military cooperation, he sees reason to reverse the outcome of the elections. If he really meant that, after the election of 2012, in which he said "€1,000," "no help to Greece" and a little later "no candidate membership of Albania," he should have thought that people could interpret that as missing. Yet he felt that there was no obstacle to doing the opposite. He's doing the exact same thing here. He says there was fog, which he himself thought wasn't there. It is not corrected by something legally binding. Then he says something else and gives an answer that is aimed at the party or the person, but not a substantive answer. Until now, and he refused to do so during last time's debate, I did not get one argument and not one example in the whole text that is now different from the one that can be interpreted on the basis of the Association Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u140	I lost Mr Omtzigt in a dark forest with this reasoning. I know he's brilliant. I also know that his own group chairman is dead to him. That is what he said here in explanations of vote. I can see why now, because it's totally inimitable, but I'm sure it'll knock from a to z. I'm going to read this part of the Acts back. I'm gonna study it. It also seems to me linguistically good; we have to admit that. It's just beautiful Dutch, but I don't get it. Can I make a comment on Mr Omtzigt, Mr President? There are moments like this that are not often there in a cabinet period that you think: this is complicated; this is not easy and not popular either. There are times when it comes to the parties so beautifully called by columnist Goslinga in Trouw: D66, Party of Labour, CDA, VVD. In the meantime, I would also like to mention the Christian Union and the SGP, which have often been in the cabinet or have been supporting it for years. Those are state-supporting parties. Those are the moments when you have to look at each other and say, okay, we get it, we had to do this anyway. The CDA can make a different assessment and say: although we are a state-supporting party, we are not doing this now, because it is not convenient for us to be electoral or otherwise. But I find Mr Omtzigt's crawling to look in the caverns of the legal to prove that the CDA has a solid position here, not convincing. That's why I thought: I'm gonna leave the question, because it's so painful, and we answered it last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u141	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u142	When the Prime Minister read the report from the previous debate, he saw that he said: I am not answering; I am not giving any examples of anything that has changed in relation to the Treaty. I see that after three repeats he has not yet dared to name one of these six points as a point at which even a comma has been changed in the text of the Treaty. For his own reasons, he may now say "for he implements the Referendum Act "that he still agrees, or not. But can he give one more example of what Ukraine was entitled to before this declaration last week and is no longer entitled to do so after this statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u143	As we discussed last week and discussed this week, the decisions of the Council of Heads of State or Government give a legally binding interpretation of the association agreement. It is legally binding on the 28 Member States. This means that it remains in court cases and at the Court in Luxembourg and is part of the European acquis. That's what we do here. We are not in the process of amending the text of the association agreement, but we are in the process of making sure that we agree with the 28 Member States on the association agreement; on what is and what is not in it. Mr Omtzigt can say that it is not a big deal. He may think so, but I have had to do a great deal of work to do that, together with Bert Koenders and at the official level. He's pretty much the only one in Europe who says this isn't important. He's really in there by himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u144	I suggest the Prime Minister move on. Mr Omtzig has the opportunity to come back to his points, but I would suggest that the Prime Minister go further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u145	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u146	I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt for a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u147	I will come back to that. I regret that this is not allowed now, because the Prime Minister is not even answering the questions I am asking. I asked another question. If Poland allows Ukrainians to enter the labour market, can a Polish company allow Ukrainians to work under a posting structure here? The reason why I am asking that question is that there were totally different expectations with Poland and I would like to have an answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u148	That has nothing to do with this association agreement. What Mr Omtzigt refers to is that, under the current rules, third-country service providers from other EU Member States can work in the Netherlands, under a number of conditions. That applies to Ukrainians, but that applies to everyone. This association agreement does not change that at all. How does it work? Someone from Ukraine has an employment permit in Poland, but it could be someone from Russia, Japan or America. This has nothing to do with Ukraine or the association agreement. This is just labour law in Europe. Someone works in Poland and has an employment permit there. If that is the case and he is legally resident there, he can work in the Netherlands without an employment permit, if that employer comes to provide services in the Netherlands. The Netherlands will then be able to oblige the sender, because we have wisely arranged this here, to provide the Dutch authorities with information in advance so that the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate can check whether the temporary workers concerned fulfil all the conditions and so on. An AMvB will enter into force on 1 January. So what Mr Omtzig refers to has nothing to do with the association agreement and not with Ukraine. I come to a few other questions that have been asked. I'll start with the terrible news about the torture prisons and the Omtzigt c.s. motion. (21501-02, No. 1705). At the General Affairs Council on 12 December, the Minister for Foreign Affairs raised the situation of prisons in Turkey. The Commission has been invited to examine the extent to which EU support is used in prisons where torture is taking place. As discussed last week, the Chamber informed me that the first Vice-President of the European Commission has promised to send a letter to the Chamber on this matter. I took note of that. I have promised to ask the Commission about the time schedule for that letter. I have been informed that the aim is to send the letter to the Chamber before the end of the year. Then I come to the information about the Brexit. As you know, the Cabinet considers it very important for the Chamber to be well informed about the Brexit process. We also gave a technical briefing on it this afternoon. In doing so, this cabinet's commitment is to involve the Dutch Parliament just as much as the European Parliament. Equal information is the starting point. Where possible, we will be in line with the existing information agreements. I must say that there is still a great deal of uncertainty at the moment about the provision of information to the Member States themselves and that there is still a lot to be done about it. This means that the Delegates Portal, the system for all 28 Member States, cannot be used at the moment, even if it was just because it should be a delegation portal for 27 Member States, 28 minus 1. We are actively committed to ensuring that there is as much transparency as possible and that the national parliaments have a good information position. However, it is a question of negotiating with a third party, namely the United Kingdom, which at least at some point becomes a third party when it leaves the Union. That is what the negotiations are about. The confidentiality of certain information is therefore important. When certain documents are marked as confidential, which is not clear at the moment, we cannot make them public without the consent of the institutions. Confidential access may be possible. At the moment, however, we do not know exactly how this is going to go. I can only say to Mr Omtzigt that we consider it important that the information position of national parliaments is equivalent to that of the European Parliament. We strive for maximum and total transparency. Last week in Europe, the Netherlands made this clear in various consultations. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u150	I asked a question about the state of the migration deals. The Malian Government has indicated that there is no deal on its part. In addition, I asked how the Prime Minister is assessing the development of the defence fund now that that path has been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u151	I have prepared myself for a feedback from the European Council and not from Mali. I know that Mr Monasch gives me almost superhuman skills, and he is often right about that, but tonight he overestimates my possibilities. The other question, concerning the Commission's proposal for a European Defence Fund, I can try to answer. It is, of course, logical that a stronger security and defence policy should include sufficient capacities. These are capacities that also benefit NATO. The sg of NATO, Mr Stoltenberg, was also present at the European Council last Thursday. He said that we must strive for complementarity between the EU and the Alliance. Among the objectives of the proposals are to help Member States develop defence capacity and strengthen the European defence market. There are also other elements, such as the capacity component of the Defence Fund. Those elements are new. We recognise the need to step up joint capacity development. At the same time, we also have a number of serious questions, such as the division of roles between the European Defence Agency and the Commission and the method of financing. We intend to discuss it in the Cabinet, also on the basis of consultations in Europe, and to send a BNC sheet on the European Defence Fund to the Chamber in January. In other words, we work along the lines of cooperation, but not a European army. That is the guiding principle on which we look at the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u152	That's fine. Then we'll take it from there. I would like to appeal to the Prime Minister's capacity. The migration deals were part of the meeting last weekend. Mr Koenders, who went there specifically as an EU envoy to conclude that migration deal, announced this with a lot of bombs. In that light, I ask the Prime Minister why the government of Mali said this weekend that she is not aware of the deal. It was part of the discussions. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister how he looks at it. It can also be done in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u153	This really didn't come up last week. I am really trying to get into the European Council in this debate. I would like to avoid this unless the Chamber so wishes, but then we should talk together about this becoming a general Question Time, a sort of Prime Minister's Question Time. It's not that. It is a debate on the feedback of the European Council. I've been preparing for that. I really don't have this answer ready. The same goes for the hormone-distorting substances, I say to Mrs Ouwehand, who I see walking to the interrupting microphone. I didn't even know they existed, so I don't have the answer. I think this is a point of principle. Otherwise, we're gonna have to talk about that. I'm preparing for a debate. I do so in full width, because it concerns a lot of subjects, but the agreements with Mali or the hormone disrupting substances were not included.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u154	I have a point of order. The migration deal with Mali is just in the letter. The fact that the Prime Minister doesn't want to answer is a bit of a silly trick to put it off procedurally. It's just been part of the discussion. A member of the cabinet went to Mali to make agreements on this matter on behalf of the EU. The Chamber has every right to hear what's going on. It has been presented with a lot of bombs and PR and it has been discussed in the European Council, but the Prime Minister does not want to answer my question. How is it that one of the other partners says that this is another one of those agreements under which someone else is signing it, and we never signed it; what is this about? It would be very nice to discuss this now. It's just part of this debate. If the Prime Minister can't answer now, he may be able to do so in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u155	I'm sticking to my previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u156	I can well imagine that the Prime Minister has not prepared himself for the issue of hormone disrupting substances. I understand that, but it is a problem, because it will be voted on tomorrow. That went head-to-head. The Chamber was informed by the Cabinet last night about what the Cabinet is planning. The Chamber couldn't talk about that. Does the Prime Minister, like the Animal Party, believe that this should be done and that it is at least in place to announce a parliamentary reservation in that announced vote tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u157	I repeat my previous answer. I really haven't prepared for this issue, so I can't say a sensible word about it, I swear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u158	I would appeal to the Prime Minister's flexibility. In European decisions, it is very often the case that we can blame the cabinet, because either we are too early, too early, too early with a proposal for a particular position, or we are too late, because then suddenly there are votes. In this case, the European Commission has put this proposal to the vote very quickly. The cabinet couldn't do much about that and it informed us neatly last night. However, it cannot be the case that a proposal which makes it virtually impossible for Member States to remove potentially carcinogenic substances from their markets is being pushed through tomorrow because the European Commission wants to get rid of it because it has been leaked that the proposal is so weak to release trade deals with America and Canada. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u159	Mrs Ouwehand, you mentioned this in your first term. My question is whether the hormone-distorting substances have been the subject of discussion at the European Council, because that is what the debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u160	No, Mr. Chairman, but I also appeal to your cooperation. The alternative would be to ask for an additional regulation today, at present, to request a debate with either the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs or the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. We were informed last night about a vote that will take place tomorrow. I cannot imagine that you, as President of the Chamber, are losing Parliament's ability to take a position on this after a debate with the cabinet, because the European Commission wants to take a decision in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u161	But the subject of this debate is the European Council. It is about the subjects that have been part of it. My question is whether that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u162	No, that is not the case, but I appeal to you as chairman to allow this out of order. This is as efficient as possible, because once again: an additional arrangement with an application for a new debate with the govern ment in question seems to me rather clumsy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u163	You announced a motion. Soon, if you wish to put the motion to the vote, it will be up to the Chamber to give its consent. That's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u164	I hear some sensible suggestions behind me, but I can imagine the Prime Minister going into this in the second term, because in the meantime, I think he should be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u165	Yes, but I won't, Mr. Chairman. I don't know about the clock or the valve when it comes to hormone disruptors. Often I have seen a clock hanging somewhere but I haven't heard the clasp, or I have heard a clasp in the distance.I thought he was drowning but didn't find the clock. Then you can still try to catch up in half an hour. I know one thing: if Mrs. Ouwehand bites herself into something...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u166	I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u167	...then she knows a lot about it. I don't know anything about it. I'm gonna go screaming like a watering can, so I shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u168	I'm going to end these skirmishes. We'll probably have a second term later. It is then up to Mrs Ouwehand to table a motion, as she has announced. I will then ask the Chamber explicitly if it agrees. Is that a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I have a motion to make, because the Chamber has to give its opinion on it. If the Prime Minister is going to say that he has no choice but to discourage the motion because he does not know what it is about, we do have a problem. I've already announced it in the first term. It would therefore be nice if the officials concerned were to brief the Prime Minister so that we could have a substantive response to the motion in the near future. Do you not recommend it just because the Prime Minister is not talking about it, when the vote will take place tomorrow in Brussels? That can't happen to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u170	We're gonna try, but I'm not gonna promise. I'm just signaling with my officials right now. Everything I do here, of course, I do without any support, but of course there is. I'm gonna ask them to do it. If it works, I'll come up with a substantive response. I'm gonna make a serious attempt. In the spirit of compromise, I will even make a serious attempt to answer Mr Monasch's question in my second term. I'm gonna go see if both of these work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u171	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I think there is a need for a second deadline. That is indeed the case. The second-term speaking time shall be 1 minute and 20 seconds, including the submission of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u172	Mr. Chairman. I have asked the question six times: give me one example, just one example of something that changes with this insert. The Prime Minister calls it "crawling" and brings up the CDA's state support, for which much thanks. He calls me a language virtuoso. I haven't heard that that many times. In the previous debate, it was first'secret'. After that: "it takes so much effort that it has to be something." I'd say take the chance with both hands. Call me one example of where this insert changes the treaty. I am talking about the insert under which there is no signature of Poroshenko, the insert on which the Council's Legal Service writes that the decision does not alter the content of the association agreement. Be honest about what it does is my appeal to the Prime Minister. I'm gonna wait to hear what's going on with the Turkish torture prisons before January 15th. I'm filing one motion. We've been working on the Brexit for six months now. In three months' time, EU leaders will have decided on the negotiating commitment. We still have no plan for the way in which parliaments are informed. Of course you can't. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the EU-27 countries are discussing a joint position to be taken at the time when the United Kingdom formally identifies the Brexit under Article 50 of the Treaty;]] [[noting that the Chamber has so far not been given access to Brexit documents such as the Slovak Government's document;]] [[noting that the Council's guidelines do not apply;]] [[calls on the Government to submit a proposal for an information protocol between the Chamber and the Government on the Brexit within 10 days;]] [[invites the Government also to give existing documents to the Chamber, if necessary confidentially,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1177]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u173	The Prime Minister was right that not everything can be public at the moment, hence the phrase "if necessary confidential." It was a promise from the previous debate that he would come forward with a proposal. We're asking him to come up with that proposal now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u174	Thank you. I call Mr Bertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u175	Mr. Chairman. The game of air and emptyness, as Mr Omtzigt put it, is complete. It was a real Hague game, all of The Hague, in which the Prime Minister used his verbal acrobatics to throw the camp on the wrong foot, by miraculously transforming what he once sold as a trade treaty like so many, into a geopolitical instrument. Nothing new. We've heard it all outbursts in the 260 days that are behind us. Our conclusion remains that the Prime Minister did everything he could wrong in the process of the referendum and ultimately formulated an annex that is an empty shell. Hence this motion from the Party for Freedom. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares confidence in the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1178]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u176	Mr. Chairman. The whole history of the Ukraine referendum in the past year does not deserve a beauty prize. No one has earned a beauty prize here. D66 said that we must comply with the substance of the 'no' vote in a legally binding manner. That seems to be happening now. What stands out today for the rest is that parties who oppose this solution are all, not one excluded, staying away from the content. Any party that is now opposed to this solution is running away from its content. The PVV is only talking about the elite and wants to table a motion of censure in the first term without listening to the content. The SP does a kind of language game, textexegesis, close reading, word clovering, to run away from its own scaremaking and the suggestions it has raised in the campaign. The CDA galvanized into legal details, inimitable. I am very curious to see what the CDA group in the First Chamber will do. That would be the clarity for the electorate which is so desperately needed. The Christian Union is only talking about abstractions in relation to the European project. The SGP referred to referenda, which it has always opposed. All substantive arguments are therefore no longer relevant to the parties against them. I'm sorry to hear that. For me, the substantive solution that is now being sought should be the main one, if it is legally binding on the major issues of the campaign: membership, military cooperation and the workers who would come to it. That is what we will assess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u177	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply in his first term. I can actually be very short in my second term. I repeat it to Mr Verhoeven: all those parties that have no substantive objections to this treaty, including some that I have not encountered in the campaign in order to meet the substantive objections, are today making legal objections to the form the Prime Minister has come back to. Of course, you can debate whether this meets the no. But that is our job, that is what we have imposed on ourselves. If we are seriously adopting a law here, even with a vote against by my party, for an advisory referendum, it is written with cow's letter on it, then that means that we have to do something with that advice. We have to go down those paths, and we have to put our ideas aside, for example, on something like the national interest. I am also saying this to a number of parties who are opposed to consultative referendums with me, with my party. If you share those arguments on national interest, you are also obliged to express them here. I didn't see that today. I've seen that your country's interests can be put above party interests. I would almost say that for my party this is the same as no other, because, according to the polls, my constituents voted against it while we were campaigning for it. But these same polls also indicate that my constituents seem to understand that something else can come out of this and that with responsible awareness of national importance you can also respond to the substantive objections that were heard in the campaign. Then I take for granted the legal objections that have not been removed here today, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u178	Mr. Chairman. This law will undoubtedly pass through the House of Representatives. We've all seen that when you look at the proportions. However, we still have good hope that the association agreement will be withdrawn. How could that be? The First Chamber still has to deal with this law. That will only take place after the elections. There is a chance that a new cabinet will simply withdraw this treaty. Is it possible for a new cabinet to withdraw this treaty on the basis of other insights? It has happened before, by the National Security Act under Rutte I. At that time, a law was repealed by a new cabinet based on other insights. My specific question to the Prime Minister is whether a new cabinet can still repeal this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u179	Mr. Chairman. I have two odd points to make. There they go. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that scientists are calling the alarm clock on hormone-distorting substances because they are linked to a growing list of chronic diseases such as IQ loss, autism and cancer;]] [[noting that a vote was announced in the very short term on the amended European criteria for hormone disrupting substances;]] [[Considering that experts warn that the criteria now proposed are so weak that they will simply keep the large bulk of hormone-distorting substances on the market, with all the consequences for human and animal health;]] [[Considering that the European Commission's proposal makes it virtually impossible for Member States to protect their populations, as there will be an excessive burden of proof if they wish to prohibit or phase out these substances;]] [[calls on the Government to vote against the proposed criteria for hormone disrupting substances in the vote of 21 December next,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1179]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u180	I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u181	Given the special circumstances, I would like to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u182	We support that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u183	I would have a slight preference for voting tomorrow after lunch if that is still on time, so that I can look into the subject. Like the Prime Minister, I am also somewhat surprised tonight by hormone disruptors. For the rest, I support the request to do so in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u184	I think I can support that. Let's just vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u185	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u186	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u187	Apart from hormone disrupting, it is also somewhat disorderly, because the subject is strange to this debate. But if it is very practical to do it this way rather than request a separate debate and then vote, I do not want to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u188	This saves time, so support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u189	I can't quite explain the contents either, but I saw what people nod that they could. Then let's vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u190	Mrs. Ouwehand, the entire room is behind you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u191	What a unique thing! My second motion doesn't go so far. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a vote was announced in the very short term on the amended European criteria for hormone disrupting substances;]] [[Whereas the Chamber has not yet been able to discuss these criteria with the Cabinet;]] [[calls on the Government to make a parliamentary reservation on the vote at the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed (SCOPAFF) on 21 December next,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1180]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u192	Thank you very much for your cooperation, Mr President. The same applies to the willingness of colleagues to vote on the motions this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u193	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is here tonight the self-appointed champion of national importance. He could have acted differently in the party's interests. I hear again €1,000 or €2,000 arriving at the elections. But today he is the champion of national importance, supported by his adjutant Ten Broeke. I think it's something else after all. In my view, the Prime Minister's actions do not serve a good purpose when it comes to the relationship between Europe and Russia. There is military cooperation in the context of the common security and defence interest. Of course there are concerns on the Russian side. We don't have to be shadowy about that. Were they not also European Member States that have indeed supported a coup d'état in Ukraine? From the Netherlands, too, this was trivialized. Those are the facts. Allowing this treaty to continue means further escalation. So that's dangerous. At the heart of today's debate is the credibility of the Prime Minister. You lose that credibility if you say first: it's a trade treaty. This credibility is lost if you then say: no, it is a very geopolitically important treaty and the whole issue must be considered in that light. You'll lose it if you come up with a few changes that don't change anything in practice. In doing so, the Prime Minister loses his credibility. I will therefore advise my group to support the motion of censure towards the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u194	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for answering my questions. In particular, I would like to thank him for answering questions on the extremely important issue of the fight against corruption for my group. The Prime Minister stressed that progress should be made in Ukraine, but he also promised me and the Chamber that the final condition of the supplementary declaration would not be a dead letter if it were not good for the fight against corruption in Ukraine. We'll hold him to that. However, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the serious answer. The Prime Minister has tried to unite the incompatible. He's managed to do some of that. He played a big game. He's still playing big game. But the false argument has certainly been exposed. That's valuable in itself. For GroenLinks in particular, we wanted to make a choice for the interest of the Ukrainians themselves, for their future, for their development, for the generation of Maidan. This has been a decisive factor for the members of my group in making our final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u195	Thank you. I see that Mr Monasch has waived his speaking time in the second term. I call Mrs Maij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u196	Mr. Chairman. The people who voted no have thus raised a number of important objections. We have also heard these objections very often in the debate around and prior to the Ukraine referendum. I sincerely believe that it is a good thing that the Prime Minister, together with Minister Koenders and his support staff, has tried to give some sort of place to those objections. This also had to be legally binding, so that it would not be a wash nose. I must say that it is all here this evening, and very often a pacifier, a "washed nose" and so on. Obviously, we all agree that Ukraine is important to us. I sincerely believe that when we talk about an association agreement with a country that is so important to us, it is very easy to go to the square centimeters of the Hague and look too little at what is really happening with the content of that treaty and what is really in that annex. It would have been worth a sweet thing to me if we'd talked a little more about what's going on with that content, and we'd have captured a little less flying each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u197	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u198	Mr. Chairman. First, I will answer Mr Monasch's question. I owed him that. It was about the visit to Mali, Frans Timmermans would say: to Malí, Minister of Foreign Affairs. You know he always demonstrates on the Malíéveld. Máli's Foreign Minister, let me just say at the Hague, and Mr Koenders has reached a political agreement. The Malian Foreign Minister was right to say that there is no legal agreement yet. That needs to be further worked out. Moreover, according to the Cotonou Agreement, there are already a number of legal obligations regarding the withdrawal of its own nationals. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion for a resolution refers to part No. 1177 about the Brexit I must advise against, because she is untimely because there are no Brexit negotiations yet, neither confidential nor public. You know how it works: first we need to trigger Article 50 before negotiations take place. Now the Netherlands in Brussels has advocated an information position in which national parliaments would be equivalent to the European Parliament if negotiations were to take place at some point. So we are going to act in the spirit of this motion; I can already say that to Mr Omtzigt. Although I betray her because she is untimely, we are going to act in the spirit of this motion. But we will now have to set up an information system as 27 Member States before we can make an agreement between the government and Parliament. But once again, I think Mr Omtzigt is afraid that negotiations are already underway. I can assure him that they are not going to happen. There's no negotiation at the moment. That would never be kept secret, and that would weaken Europe's entire position vis-à-vis the UK. Negotiating parts is exactly what the UK would probably like. That is exactly what we are not doing. First, Article 50 must be triggered and only then will it be negotiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u199	Since it wasn't tonight's main menu, let me explain. This is not about the negotiations between the EU-27 and Great Britain. They do not start until Article 50 is notified. These are the negotiations between the 27 EU countries, which are indeed going on, on what position is being taken together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u200	No, they're not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u201	Well, then I would like to see the memos that Slovakia and others put on the table, either confidentially or publicly. It is now said: first, Britain triggers Article 50 and then the next week, as 27 countries, we establish a common position on our priorities. I cannot imagine that there is currently no discussion of this position between the 27 capitals. In fact, I would find it serious if the 27 capitals were not yet in the process of thinking together about the priorities when this happens, because it is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u202	It would be unwise for that to happen to that extent. Of course, there is a lot of thinking and Barnier is travelling around and he is asking Member States: how do you look at things? Of course, but those aren't negotiations. This is an inventory of what is important for the Netherlands and other countries. Of course, here and there you will see proposals from Member States or presidencies saying: perhaps sister or something. Those aren't negotiations between 27. Why not? You never keep it a secret, at least temporarily. This would weaken Europe's position vis-à-vis the UK, as the UK would already be able to take into account the direction in which Article 50 is triggered and to reflect on what legal arrangement the UK might want to negotiate with Europe, depending on the type of conversation that is apparently taking place in Europe. Those conversations aren't going on except people traveling around and conversations in that area. But those aren't negotiations. But once again, I would like to say the following to Mr Omtzig. As the motion is now before us, I must really dissuade it because it is really untimely, but we agree on its own: we want to ensure that this Parliament has the same information position as the European Parliament. At the moment, the information system between the 27 countries has not yet been considered. I was informed this afternoon because of the debate last week between Mr Omtzigt and myself about the movement between the Chamber and the Government, about the flow of documents relating to Europe. When it appeared that once a year there was even a special general consultation on the information position of the Dutch Parliament. Then I thought: I am so glad that I said last week that this is so complicated that only one person in the cabinet can deal with this, and that is the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I say here that the government will work in the spirit of this motion and that I will immediately continue the motion to the Foreign Minister so that he knows what I have said about it. This point will be involved in the further discussion between the Chamber and the Government on the flow of pieces towards Europe at large and more specifically the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u203	This discussion has been held before. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u204	The Bertema motion in part No. 1178 I advise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u205	No, it's in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u206	Oh, sorry, I'll wait. The motion-Old-Hand in part No. 1179 I must also advise against. Secretary of State Van Dam sent a letter to the Chamber on 19 December. He stressed that this would favour a scientific approach. The EFSA Agency, which deals with food safety, and the Agency ECHA, which deals with chemicals, have reached this position on the basis of a scientific approach. It also meets the criteria of the World Health Organisation, the WHO. For this reason, Secretary of State Van Dam proposes to support the Commission's proposal. The motion-Old-Hand in part No. 1180 I must advise against, because it doesn't work that way. If we make a parliamentary reservation, it will not suspend the vote. That vote will go on and we will be outvoted. The motion-Old-Hand in part No. 1180 appears to be procedurally incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u207	Then it is very important that my motion in part no. The vote will take place this evening at 1179. I will not ask the Prime Minister about the details, because this is not his subject. I understand that, but I would like to hear from him whether he thinks it is okay for the European Commission to hold a vote. Does he agree that the House should be informed on 19 December, whereas the vote in Europe will take place on 21 December? There's one day in between. That doesn't leave room for debate, does it? That has now proved to be the case. Shouldn't the cabinet say for that reason alone: boys, we can't work like this, because we need a debate with our Parliament prior to our position?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u208	Because this is about a purely scientific... It is actually a kind of AMvB that is being beaten in Europe. It's not main legislation. It's basically underlying legislation. Given that a scientific approach is being adopted for which the relevant agencies have, as always, provided their input and which is in line with the World Health Organisation criteria, I believe that this is the way it can be done. That is also the position of Secretary of State Van Dam, and I support it. I think we can go through with this and it is also right that the government should discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u209	This is a serious matter of principle. That's not how it works. The cabinet informs the Chamber about proposals being made at European level and on which Member States should vote at some point. We have a debate on this in advance. This applies to the proposed fish quotas, which the European Commission always says are based on science and on this situation about hormone-distorting substances. Once again, I can live with it if the Prime Minister does not want to have a substantive debate on this issue. But he says that the Chamber has nothing to say about this, because the European Commission has submitted a scientific opinion on this issue. It's not an AMvB. Parliament has something to say about this. So I think this is really wrong in principle. The Prime Minister would be a bad Prime Minister if he held on to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u210	I think that this point also affects the previous point on the provision of information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u211	I can only say that in his letter of 19 December, Martijn van Dam, the relevant Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, who manages the agricultural portfolio, clearly explains why this can be done. It is important to me that this is a purely scientific approach and that is why I maintain my advice on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u212	Mrs Ouwehand, you have made your point quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u213	It's robbing the Chamber, and I get it. I think it is important to contradict what the Prime Minister is saying here for all those who are about to vote on this motion. That's not how it works. We have been discussing these criteria for years. The agreement is that the cabinet informs the Chamber so that it can give its opinion on a cabinet's intention and take any position. If the Prime Minister is trying to sell to the Chamber here that the use is that the government just sends a note and then we agree, then I think that is really wrong. I want the Chamber to ignore the Prime Minister's signal, because it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u214	That wasn't my reaction either. My reaction was that on balance the letter of 19 December from Secretary of State Van Dam both on trial and on content justifies that the cabinet will do what it intends to do tomorrow. That is why it is right that I reject this motion. So I did not deal specifically with the procedural issue, but rather with the full breadth of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u215	I only asked one question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u216	And what was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u217	Give me one example that shows that the insert changes the treaty or makes a substantial change compared to what was last week. I asked that question three times last week, three times in the first term, but I have not yet heard a single example, except for the crawling, state-supporting and how it would go in the CDA Group. That's all very interesting, but I'm looking for an example. This Prime Minister has negotiated 240 days. Then he must be able to give an example of how it is really different from last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u218	Then I have to repeat the answer I gave. This is a legally binding interpretation of the association agreement. In six key areas, it is very important that the 28 Member States of the European Union agree. How we, as the EU, deal with accession, money, military cooperation, the free movement of workers and the fight against corruption is very important, because there were many areas of uncertainty. Sometimes there was a fog in the debate leading up to the referendum, but I mentioned the example of the accession debate. Is this treaty pre-accession? Strictly speaking, this is not in the association agreement at all, but I repeat that the combination of the preamble with the statements of the Ukrainian President and a number of senior leaders in Europe gave many people the impression that it might be. I think it is of great added value that this makes it legally binding on how we deal with the association agreement. Actually, we're recording what it is and what it isn't. This does not change the text of the association agreement, but it is legally binding, it is part of the European acquis, and it also stands in court cases, for example at the Luxembourg Court and so on, so that we can have no further misunderstandings about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u219	These arguments have been exchanged enough, Mr Omtzigt. We're really repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u220	I agree, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u221	Yeah, that's right, but there's still no answer. It is binding on lawsuits between those 28 and later 27 EU countries, but not on lawsuits involving Ukraine. That's the nuclear country, but it didn't sign it. And the Prime Minister still hasn't mentioned an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u222	Just about to explain why Ukraine has not co-signed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u223	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u224	We have discussed this a number of times, but I will say it again. Ukraine has not co-signed because the 28, soon to be 27 Member States commit themselves to a legally binding interpretation, in the form of a decision by the Heads of State or Government, on the association agreement on those points where we have powers to do things in the direction of Ukraine, such as granting accession, giving more money, entering into military cooperation and granting freedom of movement for workers. It is also important how we deal with Article 438 with 28 countries if Ukraine does not comply with its obligations in the fight against corruption and the fight against fraud. That's what it's gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u225	The First Chamber will not deal with the Act of Approval until after the Lower House elections. I asked the Prime Minister if a new cabinet could withdraw the law on approval of the Ukraine Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u226	That question contains all sorts of assumptions. The cabinet wants to speed things up. This means that we immediately sent the law to the Council of State last Friday, asking for prompt advice. This means that we expect the law back soon and will write a further report as soon as possible. Then the law goes to the Chamber. In last week's debate and this week's debate, I hear that everyone is done with the subject. That is why I expect a great deal of urgency to be made here too. What that means for the timing of treatment here and then in the First Chamber, is not about the government but about Mr Bontes. I can't answer that any further. However, I have said that in so far as the government has a role to play again in the parliamentary procedure, for example in drawing up a note on the report or its equivalent in the First Chamber, we will do so at the earliest opportunity. So we will not delay anything; I can only say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u227	This haste with the Prime Minister is understandable, but the question is and remains: can a new cabinet repeal the law on approval of the Ukraine Treaty? Can we do that, yes or no? I just want to hear "yes" or "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u228	Yeah, a new cabinet? That is the issue if the debate in the Second Chamber or in the First Chamber will be in Mr Bontes' scenario after the elections. Again, I really think it should be one step at a time. I do not think that I should have an opinion on behalf of the cabinet on how the Chamber should deal with this. I can only conclude that I feel that it is a common goal to do it as quickly as possible. We have asked the Council of State for an emergency opinion. We will write the further report as soon as possible and, if necessary, send it to the Chamber as soon as possible. That is what we are talking about, but I really do not want to talk about all kinds of state-law what-ifs, because I am not a state-law scholar; I am Prime Minister and I am trying to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u229	Finally, Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u230	I'm sorry, but I can't get an answer. The answer is easy: it is yes or no. Can a new cabinet repeal this law on approval of the Ukraine Convention, yes or no? I am satisfied if the answer is yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u231	I'm not a state lawyer, I'm a prime minister. You shouldn't ask me that question! The question you need to ask me is, what do you want? I would like to try to settle this, together with the Chamber, as quickly as possible, in both chambers, because I believe that everyone is slowly thinking: it would be nice if we could make it well within the year. As far as we, as a cabinet, are concerned in this parliamentary debate with matters that we must do in response to what the Chamber is doing, we shall do so as soon as possible. I can promise you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-36.u232	This brings us to the end of this debate. We shall vote on Mr Omtzigt's motion on Thursday and on the three remaining motions after the suspension.
