ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister of Security and Justice to the First Chamber; not everyone now has to give a hand to the Minister. We shall begin the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. The first part of my text will be voted on as chairman of the committee and the second part, the substantive part, as spokesman for the VVD Group. Since the proceedings surrounding the European Public Prosecutor's Office (EOM) file have made the members of the Permanent Committees for Security and Justice and I&A/JHA of this Chamber rather alienated and the related concerns and questions are widely shared by those members, these committees wish to bring the following to the attention of the Minister of V and J. On Thursday 8 and Friday 9 December, which is the day after tomorrow, the regular meeting of the JHA Council will take place, which is likely to vote on a proposal, a draft regulation, to establish a European Public Prosecutor's Office. It is a proposal because the final text of this proposal is not yet known. Indeed, the annotated agenda of the JHA Council for 8 and 9 December, which the Minister sent to this Chamber last Thursday, states that the Slovak Presidency intends to "address the remaining reservations of Member States in the run-up to 8 December in order to submit a final compromise to the Council'. So that can happen tomorrow and in theory the day after tomorrow, but we are meeting today. A majority of the House of Representatives voted against the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office two weeks ago. The Minister undertook to present that position to the JHA Council meeting. In the annotated agenda for the JHA Council, he also wrote literally: "If the Presidency submits the draft regulation on the EPPO to the Council for approval, the Netherlands will vote against that decision in accordance with the conclusion of the general consultation with the Second Chamber on possible participation in the EPPO (...)." Whether you are in favour of or against the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office, this course of action ignores the equivalent position of the First and Second Chambers when it comes to European legislative proposals. Can the Minister explain what considerations he had in order not to wait for the position of the First Chamber when he promised the Second Chamber that he would vote against the EOM? In addition to the submission of the subsidiarity objection in 2013, the First Chamber held an extensive exchange of views with the government on this matter, both orally and in writing. Why has the Minister repeatedly promised the permanent committees for V and J and I&A/JHA to inform them of the state of play and to submit the final outcome of the negotiations to the Upper Chamber, and why has he ultimately failed to do so? What have these previous commitments been worth? In their letter of 16 July, the two committees informed the Minister that they would like to be informed about the interim results of the negotiations. They wished to ensure the possibility of effective democratic control of government policy when, after reaching a final text, the cabinet's commitment to the control of the two Chambers would lie there. The Minister, who was rapporteur for both chambers in his previous position on this particular dossier, should have known better. Could he not have said to the House of Representatives during the AO of 23 November that he was waiting for the judgment of the First Chamber before he made it clear what position he would make? However, on 21 November last, the Minister asked the House of Representatives to give a ruling on the complete end result of the negotiations on the EOM. How obvious would it have been to make such a request to the First Chamber? What proposal is the Minister going to say no to on behalf of the House of Representatives? Last week the final text was not yet known. Is that text known by now? Can the Minister inform this Chamber about this? I am not saying that it is, but suppose that this Chamber is a majority in favour of the establishment of an EPPO in the form of the proposal as it now stands, how will the Minister behave when it comes to deciding on Thursday or Friday? Does he then abstain from voting, does he allow the vote of the Lower House to weigh more heavily or does he try to postpone decision-making? This is a curious course of action, contrary to the promises made by the Minister in this Chamber, contrary to the commitments made by the Minister with this Chamber, and more importantly, it is wrong of state law. In fact, it does not recognise the equivalent position both chambers hold when it comes to European legislative proposals. The Minister also failed to do so. By maneuvering into this awkward position, he must skipper even more between First and Second Chambers and Brussels than would have been necessary. Maybe he has a good explanation that this Chamber hasn't thought of yet and/or doesn't know. The permanent committees for V&J and I&A/JHA are therefore very interested in the Minister's explanatory statement and in the answers to the questions that have just been put. I shall now come to the substantive contribution on behalf of my own group. My group has supported this House's earlier objection to subsidiarity. The following arguments played a role for her. Firstly, the argument that criminal law is a matter of national competence and detection and prosecution is primarily a matter for national authorities. Transfer of these powers affects national sovereignty. Secondly, the argument that fraud usually takes place at national level and must therefore be combated there. Thirdly, the argument that the proposal for a regulation does involve fraud involving funds from EU institutions or, in other words, offences at the expense of the EU budget, but that financial crime is almost always accompanied by other forms of crime. Fourthly, the argument that powers conferred on the EPPO go too far and may lead to conflicts with national authorities. If my group looks at the text of the proposal for a regulation before us, it would like to reconsider these arguments. After all, the EPPO has had a different structure in the current proposal than in the proposal on which this Chamber has submitted a subsidiarity objection. I shall begin with the argument of the transfer of sovereignty. Criminal law is a fundamental part of national sovereignty. To what extent does the proposed EPPO transfer sovereignty? To what extent is there a purely complementary system? Or is there also a convergence of powers between the European Chief Prosecutor and the powers of a delegated Public Prosecutor? Would the Minister like to explain that again? To what extent is there actually a transfer of powers and what does the law of evocation look like? My group would like to see more clarity on this. One of the reasons why there is currently no final text of the proposal for a regulation is that there is still uncertainty about the PIF Directive, which is intended to tackle VAT fraud. The mandate of the EPPO shall be determined by the content of this PIF Directive. What's the status right now? When does the Minister expect to be able to clarify this? What is the Minister's view of the possibility that the EPPO will also tackle other forms of fraud and crime? Financial fraud is never on its own and will sometimes be difficult to distinguish from other forms of fraud, and the powers of the EPPO which now seem limited can expand. I'd like the Minister's view on this. Another point on which my group would like to clarify is that of the political responsibility of the EPPO. That is unclear for my group at the moment. How is Parliament's control of the EPPO ultimately put in place? The position of the EOM is different from that of the Dutch OM. The Chief Prosecutor of the EPPO may only be dismissed by the Court of Justice if he is no longer able to perform his duties or behaves badly. Although the Dutch OM operates remotely, the ultimate responsibility lies with this minister. To what extent and to whom should the prosecutors be accountable when they perform their duties before the EPPO in their capacity as a delegated European Prosecutor? In the copy of the letter of 21 November last from the Minister to the House of Representatives, he writes that non-participation of the Netherlands in the EOM is not in the interests of the Netherlands on balance. He therefore advises the House of Representatives to reconsider the position taken. Will the Minister state again what the precise disadvantages would be if the Netherlands did not participate in an EOM? It has sometimes been suggested that if the Netherlands does not participate in an EOM, the fraud will be transferred to the Netherlands. How does the Minister feel about this? Is this an argument for the Minister to plead for participation in an EOM? What does the EPPO mean for the role and position of Eurojust and Europol? Why has it not been chosen to strengthen these institutions rather than create a new EOM? Has the Minister considered using these institutions to strengthen them during the negotiations, so that an EPPO would not be necessary? What does a Dutch no vote in Brussels mean for the Dutch position and more specifically for the Hague position as a city of justice and peace? What does a yes vote mean? What about dealing with fraud involving EU funds in countries that are now saying no to the proposal and will no longer be involved in negotiating enhanced cooperation through the European Council? How can fraud involving EU funds be tackled in these countries? After all, the idea behind the EOM proposal is that a stick was needed to deal with fraud involving EU funds throughout Europe. My group regrets that this Chamber has to say yes or no to a European Public Prosecutor's Office, while there are still a lot of uncertainties and the text of the draft regulation is not yet final. In other words, it would benefit the care and quality of the decision-making process if the minister in Brussels could buy some more time. Is the Minister prepared to stand up for this? Should the Minister have to vote on the proposal before us on the EPPO, the Minister must now clarify the position of this Chamber. My group has not yet taken a final position, but wishes to await the Government's answers to the questions raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u3	We have been discussing the issue of establishing a European Public Prosecutor's Office for several years. In recent times, including during the Dutch presidency of the EU, it has been hard to make the proposal more realistic and focus on cooperation between the European Union and the Member States and between the Member States, rather than once again setting up a supranational institution that the European Commission initially envisaged. The EU Treaty provides for the possibility of setting up an EPPO, not the obligation to do so. However, in Article 325 of the EU Treaty, Member States agreed on the obligation to tackle fraud involving EU funds. Unfortunately, there are facts and indications that fraud involving EU funds is being committed in several European countries and that there is often no effective response at national level. This alone calls for enhanced European cooperation in this regard. From the Lower House, it was proposed constructively in a position paper of April 2014 by her then rapporteur, then MP Van der Steur, to go a third way, which meant that the EPPO would only be given an additional task. In other words, it would only take place if the prosecution authority of a Member State failed. Since then, of course, a lot of water has gone through the Rhine, perhaps with a somewhat sprouting, unsatisfactory contribution from the Commission, but with all the more substantial contributions during the various presidencies since that of Greece in the first half of 2014. It is a pity for the Netherlands and The Hague that it has not been possible during the Dutch Presidency to reach a decision on the EPPO, as this Chamber has been informed in the report on the last JHA Council under our Presidency. On 28 October last. The Slovak Government has presented an integral proposal. I agree with Mrs Duthler that there are quite a few open ends to this. However, we believe that it provides a good balance between respect for national police forces, prosecution authorities and judges and European guidance where necessary to combat fraud effectively. This is not a question of Europhilia or superfluous luxury, but a bitter necessity when you read the reports on fraud investigations in Eastern and Southern Europe in particular. Justice and politics there do not always appear to have clean hands, but sometimes to be intertwined with fraud and serious crime. For this reason, it is encouraging that these countries are asking for stronger European judicial cooperation through an EPPO. My group is pleased that the Minister supports that line. In the discussion on this subject, it is important to monitor the limited scope of the proposed powers of the EPPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u4	I hear Mr Schrijver say that these countries apparently need the EPPO to conduct investigations into them. Does Mr Schrijver think that the EPPO can do that? The investigations must be carried out by the countries themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u5	As we know, the slogan of my party is "together strong." The same applies to this subject. It is clear that there is often a lack of institutional capacity in some of the newer Member States of the European Union and that it urgently needs to be strengthened through the development of the rule of law. They say: we may want to, but we can't always. They therefore need an additional European dimension. Moreover, this is purely a question of dealing with fraud involving European subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u6	How does Mr Schrijver look at the fact that consent should be requested from the EPPO to do a case, or for the fact that they are taking over the case? I am referring to the transfer of sovereignty and look specifically at the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u7	I would put it differently than Mrs Wezel does. The present proposal provides for a right of priority for the European Public Prosecutor's Office. If they feel that there is such serious fraud with EU funds and that these are interests that directly affect the European Union as a legal person, they want to be able to stand up for the EU's own interests, but always in cooperation with the national prosecution authority and the national courts. There are examples where people say that we leave this to the national level. I did not come across the word 'acceptance' used by Mrs Wezel in the document in question. I don't think it's a proper description.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u8	How does Mr Schrijver look at the transfer of sovereignty that then takes place to the EPPO? Mr Schrijver now points out that this is only about EU subsidy fraud, but the other types of fraud are already ready to be arrested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u9	As far as the latter is concerned, of course we are there. There are interesting proposals to also target VAT fraud or perhaps even terrorism. We're a long way from getting there. It is also a question of shared sovereignty. The national legal systems overlap. The Netherlands is not an island. Romania isn't either. So our legal systems always have to do with each other. Absolute sovereignty from the time of the French Empire no longer exists at this time of limited sovereignty. That is why we have so many international courts and tribunals here in The Hague in the field of criminal law. With regard to the Public Prosecutor, we are only talking about serious cases of fraud involving EU subsidies in the Member States and not small cases. We are not talking about other types of fraud or serious crime in the broad sense and terrorism. In fact, Germany would have liked to add both the last two subjects to the competence of the EPPO. Perhaps Mrs Wezel pointed out on that, but we share the government's view that the time is not right now. The number of offences currently dealt with in the Slovak proposal is easy to monitor. The various types of investigative measures that could be imposed on the EPPO have also been drastically reduced: from 21 to 5 and only for fraud offences involving a prison sentence of five years or more in the country concerned. The EPPO will act in addition to the national OMs and not in place. Moreover, it is now clearly provided that the application of procedural rights under all these measures is subject to review by national courts. This raises the question of whether the government is assessing whether all these measures are ECHR-proof and whether the European Court of Human Rights should also be able to fully assess the actions of the EPPO, even now that the European Union is not yet a party to the ECHR. My group adds the question as to whether, according to the Minister's assessment, there can be less procedural guarantees than we know in the Dutch legal order. I am thinking in particular of the right of access to a lawyer, the right of access to documents in the file and the right of silence. As the government has argued and has advised our own OM, the outcome of the subsidiarity and proportionality test now makes it desirable to participate in the EOM. A decision to stay as the Netherlands outside the EOM can have adverse effects on the Netherlands; in the words of the minister: may not be in the interests of the Netherlands on balance. With Mrs Duthler, I would ask the Minister once again to explain what he considers to be the adverse effects. Can the Minister also include the position of the city of The Hague as the city of residence of Eurojust and perhaps even as the potential seat of the EPPO? Isn't it obvious that Eurojust and the EPPO will work closely together and be placed close to each other for that reason? And if so, what will be the effect of the continued absence of Dutch support to the EOM on the opportunities of The Hague as a city of establishment? How does the Minister view the cooperation between the three institutions most concerned: Eurojust, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and the EPPO? My group looks forward to answering the questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u10	The majority in the Lower House has indicated in recent years that they do not want an EOM. That sound of the Minister obviously did not come across clearly in Brussels. How does Mr Schrijver view that action?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u11	We make an independent assessment in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u12	In recent years, the First Chamber has also clearly stated that it does not wish to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u13	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Zo bondig zou ik het niet kunnen en willen samenvatten.]] We have said with some concern to look at the development of the designs. However, we reserve our final judgment until there is a full text. What Mrs Wezel is saying is too easy: as if nothing has changed between the presentation of the proposals by the European Commission in 2013 and now, December 2016. The Slovak proposal contains a very different proposal for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor than the original proposal of the European Commission, with functions of the European Prosecutor, which aim to cooperate with the national OMs. Mrs Wezel couldn't have missed that either, could she?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u14	Has Mr Schrijver heard that the Minister has clearly spoken out against this in Brussels on behalf of the Dutch Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u15	I don't have that ready right now. I have always read that the Dutch Government suspended its judgment until there was an integral text. That has only been the case for a few weeks. Mrs Wezel is standing with her back to the Minister, so she does not have the advantage of seeing the Minister nodding yes. Perhaps I should point out that, at least in his body language, that is a correct summary of the position of the Dutch Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u16	There was another new text this morning. Is there a final text?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u17	That is why we have a very interesting debate on this today, which can also be described as an urgent debate. I am very curious to see what the Minister will answer to our committee chairman's questions about the importance that the Minister attaches to the view of the other house within the States General.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u18	That's what I'm looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. It will be clear to the Minister that the D66 Group has a very uncomfortable feeling in holding a debate, the outcome of which seems to be clear to the Minister. The displeasure of the Chambers Committee on the formal commitment to vote on behalf of the Netherlands in the JHA Council against the present proposal on the introduction of a European Public Prosecutor's Office has been satisfactorily expressed by the chairman of the Committee. In the meantime, it can be assumed that a majority of the Member States will move towards the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office in the forthcoming JHA Council. My group also believes that this Chamber should have its own discretion as to whether the Member State should participate in the proposed EOM. In that light, my group appreciates the fact that we are discussing one part of this dossier with the Minister and that we are expressing our views on the choice made by the government in advance. The organisational structure of the EPPO has not become clearer in the course of the negotiations. A number of levels have been added so that it has gradually become a fairly complicated whole. For example, there will be a collegiate structure with prosecutors from each member state, instead of the original set-up with the European Chief Prosecutor as the central figure. Moreover, the primacy will be more closely linked to the national legal system, as European Delegated Prosecutors will cooperate with their colleagues in the Member States in accordance with the legislation in force there. A stronger national component is thus built in. My group understands from the documents that there is no agreement yet on the precise tasks and position of the European Delegated Prosecutor. Apparently, three options are still under consideration: limiting the list of decisions taken by the Permanent Chamber; extending the delegation power of the Chamber to the Delegated Prosecutor; or extensive possibilities for silent or written proceedings. Is this still a point of discussion, or is there already more clarity on the direction for which a majority can be found in the JHA Council? I am also curious whether the government has a ruling on this point. The substantive powers of the EPPO will be governed by the Directive on the protection of the EU's financial interests (the PIF Directive). At the moment, the content of the directive is still being negotiated, with the potential power to prosecute VAT fraud being the main topic of discussion, and I understand from the documents. In the proposal as it stands, the EPPO will be empowered to prosecute serious cases of VAT fraud, which has been completed on a proposal from the Netherlands as serious if the fraud has been committed in two Member States and amounts to at least EUR 10 million. In the Lower House, the Minister indicated that it is still very doubtful whether these thresholds will ultimately be maintained in the ongoing negotiations. Can the Minister explain to this Chamber how the other Member States have or will react to this Dutch proposal? I come to the division of responsibilities. In the AO of 23 November in the Lower House, the Minister spoke about the independence of the EOM by way of derogation from the wishes of the majority of the Second Chamber. Would the Minister have preferred to see this differently? In other words, would he have preferred, as in the position paper of the House of Representatives, that the EOM had been reduced to just one ultimum remedium? Or does he ultimately believe, on substantive grounds, that its own, albeit defined, competence can or will lead to a more effective approach to fraud involving EU funds? I like to hear it. I'll be on legal protection. Suspects involved in proceedings initiated by the EPPO shall have the procedural rights they have under the applicable national law. In the case of involvement of Dutch citizens in cross-border cases, this raises questions about the legal status of Dutch suspects, given the differences between Member States regarding procedural safeguards in criminal proceedings and judicial review. The Meijers Commission has rightly asked questions about this. How does the Minister judge this concern? Another point concerns relations with other organisations. In his letter of 25 November, the Minister stated that he had urged the European Commission that Eurojust and OLAF should not have negative budgetary effects from the establishment of the EPPO. That seems to be a relevant point for my group. Can the Minister state what the Commission's response is to this? Finally, I would like to ask the Minister how the government appreciates a number of issues in the current situation. Firstly, I would like to know how the government appreciates the content of the proposal which is now being proposed and substantially amended. I ask the Minister whether the government does not believe that the EPPO can and will contribute to a more effective fight against cross-border fraud involving EU funds. In other words, would the current proposal not serve the interests of the Netherlands in the fight against fraud better than in the absence of the proposed EPPO? More specifically, I would like to ask the Minister what non-participantness of the Netherlands in the EPPO will mean for the quality and results of the national anti-fraud measures. What consequences will the Netherlands have for the continued necessary cooperation within the EU on this issue? In certain cross-border situations, the Netherlands will not be able to deal with fraud without the legal assistance of participating Member States. Our national authorities will then have to turn to the EPPO, because the EPPO will have replaced the national authorities in the participating Member States. Conversely, the EPPO will apply to the Netherlands from this position for the provision of legal assistance in EU fraud cases. Our own OM has also established that non-participants in the EPPO entail a number of vulnerabilities and uncertainties. The D.A. recommends that we participate from a pragmatic point of view. This brings benefits for, among other things, harmonious cooperation in the national approach to fraud and the exercise of influence on the further development of the EPPO. I would like to hear whether the Minister shares this view. My group is in favour of the participation of the Netherlands in the envisaged European Public Prosecutor's Office. Considering the above considerations, we expect participation in the EPPO to contribute to a more effective common approach to forms of serious fraud involving European funds. In the meantime, it is also clear that there will be one way or another of the EPPO's activities, although it remains to be seen which of the routes set out in Article 86 TFEU will eventually be followed. In other words, my group would like the Netherlands to cooperate intensively with the other Member States within the EU in the fight against EU fraud, and also to participate in the internal procedures of the EPPO on the institution's strategy and on prosecution policy. As far as we are concerned, the Minister is going to present this position at the next meeting of the JHA Council. I'd like to hear if he's gonna do this on second thought. This was my first-term contribution. I await the Minister's reaction as always with interest, but also with a slight shudder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. The minister must have a headache from all the twisting. As MP, the current minister was against the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Afterwards, when the House of Representatives appointed him as rapporteur on this subject, he remained opposed. The First and Second Chambers have stated on several occasions that criminal law is primarily a national competence and therefore the investigation and prosecution of these offences are primarily a task of the national authorities. But once minister in a PvdA cabinet, the turning starts automatically. This will become more intense if the ministers of the Dutch cabinet of Prime Minister Rutte are instructed to negotiate the interests of the Netherlands in the Dutch back chambers, because Prime Minister Rutte wants to be liked by everyone. To say no to a European proposal is therefore not in question, even if it limits the sovereignty of the Netherlands. That doesn't matter to Prime Minister Rutte, as long as Merkel and Hollande Mark keep liking it. On behalf of the cabinet, the Minister is asking us today to give a ruling on whether the Netherlands should not participate in that European Public Prosecutor's Office. That is in itself a crazy question, because the Chambers were already against it. The most important objections still exist. Anyway, the minister's asking a question. I can answer this question clearly on behalf of the PVV Group. The answer was no, the answer is no and the answer will always be no. We don't want a European Public Prosecutor's Office. The PVV's gonna keep his back straight. The PVV does not bow to the European elite who talk to members of our cabinet during lunches, dinners and cocktail parties to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The PVV does not participate in this clear transfer of sovereignty. Who doesn't keep their backs straight? Those are the members of the Rutte cabinet. The PVV understands that the Netherlands is our country and that is why we want to remain in control in our own country. We do not want European public prosecutors who can prosecute our citizens, because this is our country. The supporters of the European Public Prosecutor's Office will say that problems and offences often have cross-border components in 2016 or 2017. These Europeanists quickly advocate cross-border solutions. However, the PVV always advocates national self-reliance. The EU does not solve problems, but often creates them and then comes up with a solution that leads to more EU and therefore less sovereignty of the Member States. The PVV is known to advocate less EU or, rather, a Nexit. For years before the British voted for a Brexit, the United Kingdom has indicated that it does not want to participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Let us follow the British: say no to the EOM and later say yes to the Nexit. The belief in national self-reliance seems to be completely lacking in the almost defeatist letter sent by the Minister of Security and Justice to our cabinet on 25 November. It is repeatedly reported that the EOM will certainly be there and because it will certainly be there it would be annoying if the Netherlands does not participate. First of all, it is incomprehensible to me that the Minister is not forging a coalition with other countries that are opposed to him, because there are ten of them that are powerful enough to wipe that whole EOM off the table. Secondly, it is sad to see that the Dutch cabinet is anxious not to join the European cabal for once. Article 86 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that the Council must decide unanimously on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office. Will Prime Minister Rutte vote against the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office in the European Council? I would like a clear answer from the Minister. Why does the letter say that it is certain that the EPPO will be there in any form? Given that it is assumed that there is no unanimity between the Member States, and given that in the absence of this unanimity, at least nine Member States must first unite and state that they want to move forward together with the EPPO, I do not think anything is 100% certain. In my view, the certainty suggested in the letter is not based on formal reality. I find the Minister's letter misleading on this point. I would like to hear from the Minister whether this has been deliberately miswritten with the aim of convincing the political groups in this Chamber to vote in favour of the establishment of the EPPO. I'm rounding up. The negotiations in the backrooms of the European Union, also on this subject, make one thing clear: the Netherlands deserves ministers who can keep their backs straight. The Netherlands deserves ministers who respect the wishes of the First and Second Chambers, the elected representatives of the people, even if they are not at the table at the secret JHA meetings in Brussels. The Netherlands deserves a cabinet that puts the interests of the Dutch first. The Netherlands deserves ministers who believe in the power of our own institutions. The Dutch do not deserve more EU, but less EU, or, rather, no EU at all. The Dutch deserve a strong Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office, which ensures more security in the Netherlands. In short, the Netherlands cannot wait until 15 March 2017, the day when the Netherlands will have the chance to deal with the elite and the day when the Netherlands can and will vote for the PVV in large numbers. Because only a large and strong PVV can keep us boss in our own country, so that everyone at home can say: The Netherlands is ours again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. An emergency debate in the First Chamber. It shouldn't get much crazier; then there is really something going on. Some things are better addressed at European level than at national level. National what can, European what should. "Brussels" should not be a dirty word, even if it happens to be convenient for the electorate's favour. Members of parliament who are being skilfully guided by the latest polls should be cut back on their compensation. From this point of view, the SGP wants to look at the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office, an EPPO that should focus on combating EU fraud eligible for criminal sanctions. Fighting fraud is undoubtedly a noble objective, but is it necessary to have a European Public Prosecutor? That is very much the question. It has been said many times this afternoon: criminal law is, in excellence, a national competence. In the SGP's view, detection and prosecution of criminal offences are primarily the responsibility of national authorities. In addition, fraud usually takes place at national or even local level and must therefore be combated there. I would like to point out that democratic control of detection and prosecution is guaranteed at national level. After all, our Parliament has an important responsibility for the design and design of our investigation and prosecution policy. But what exactly is the situation with a European Public Prosecutor? Where does democratic control take place? Where's it locked up? Who is ultimately politically responsible? I would like to add that we now have some experience with the mores of Europe, and that it is unlikely that it will end in purely the fight against fraud once a European Public Prosecutor has been set up. Almost every European institute has the intrinsic urge to attract more tasks and powers. The EU never says: it is enough. Several large Member States, as well as the European Parliament, have indicated that the EPPO should also be involved in other criminal matters. Those sounds aren't reassuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u22	Mr Van Dijk says that 'the EU' never says that it is enough, but who is 'the EU' according to Mr Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u23	I referred in particular to the various European bodies. It is now focusing on this body in a very specific way, but we know that history has taught us that once such a European Public Prosecutor is established, there will be a development in which more tasks, more powers and more responsibilities will be demanded. In this context, I did refer to the statements made by Germany, France and the EP, among others. They are already saying that it is not only for the fight against fraud, but also for the fight against terrorism and so on. I was referring to that mechanism, to the snowball effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u24	Doesn't Mr Van Dijk underestimate the role of the Dutch Parliament and that of the minister he can address? The police also always want more powers, that is the idea; that is often said.... but we are still there to decide whether or not that happens. So doesn't Mr Van Dijk underestimate what he can do about it himself? He himself is there when such a decision would be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u25	Mrs. Strik is asking a good question. I would almost say the other way round: do not overestimate our Chambers either. Mrs Strik is absolutely right when she says that we are all there, but practice also teaches us that the step to add a little more is becoming smaller and easier once you cross a certain bridge. In view of the above, the SGP has strong reservations about transferring Dutch sovereignty to the European level in the fight against fraud. Such a transfer of sovereignty would include the possibility for the EPPO to take over investigative powers from participating Member States. This is contrary to the requirements of the position paper, as drafted by then MP Van der Steur. We need to address problems in a targeted way, at the level they occur. If, in particular, southern or eastern European countries are failing to tackle fraud, then these countries should be encouraged, stimulated and helped to improve their approach. The withdrawal of subsidies may also be the subject of discussion. For national problems, we should not roll out European solutions. If we are already thinking of a European solution, it should apply only to those Member States that fail to tackle EU fraud; so if there is evidence of national authorities' misconduct. As far as cooperation is concerned, I believe that much has already been achieved, but if fraud is not dealt with in the best possible way at the moment by lack of cooperation or the lack of exchange of information between Member States, let us focus on it. First, to optimise cooperation before we resort to the blunt means of transfer of sovereignty in the sensitive area of criminal law. If it does come in any form, the Netherlands will, of course, be able to work loyally with it, just as we are now working with OMs from other Member States. The fact that the Netherlands does not participate in the EPPO does not therefore mean that the approach to fraud would be hindered. Does the Minister recognize this? I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u26	Madam President. Much has already been said, so I shall confine myself to a few things. Fraud must be combated, even in the case of fraud involving European subsidies. In principle, Member States should do so themselves. Now that this is not happening or not enough, there is much to be said for it to be done by a European prosecution apparatus. Especially now that this apparatus, despite its naming, has limited powers, we see no conflict here with the principle of subsidiarity. My group understands those who are reluctant to move from national competences to a new European body. However, despite all the Euroscepticism of this moment, I sincerely believe that this continent will benefit more than less Europe in the field of justice and security over the coming decades. Examples include the international arms trade, cybercrime, trafficking in human beings and controls at external borders. These issues call for more resilience, which can only be addressed internationally, preferably in a European context. We therefore do not understand why the Minister has shown such flagrant behavior in this dossier. As a member of parliament, he was against, as a minister neutral, facilitating in the capacity of EU President, which we can only take as a pro, after the European Presidency again neutral, after the consultation of the House of Representatives on 23 November 2016 against and in the letter of 25 November 2016 again before. I quote from this: non-participation is not in the Dutch interest. However, this Minister will vote against the regulation. Do you still understand, Madam President? Why does this minister not show a backbone and say to the House of Representatives the same thing he wrote in a letter to this Chamber two days after the discussion with the other side on 25 November 2016, namely "non-membership is not in Dutch interest"? Why does he not add: and so I am going to vote proudly on behalf of the Netherlands in Brussels, especially now that the College of Attorneys General has abandoned its initial scepticism and recommends that the Netherlands participate actively? The original proposal has been significantly improved. A number of Dutch concerns have been taken into account. The construction has become less hierarchical. The Dutch Public Prosecutor receives an active contribution to the question of how to carry out investigations. Of course, practice will have to show whether a good balance is found between national priority cases and European prosecution cases. However, it is precisely by participating that the Netherlands can give its own guidance. What are the consequences of non-participation, according to the Minister, when the Netherlands needs assistance from other countries? Moreover, the Netherlands loses the chance that the EOM will be established in The Hague, the city of peace and justice. I'll finish with five questions to the Minister. Is this Chamber going to change his mind or is this a debate for the debate? It seems to be seen from the minister's body language, which is more concerned with the apparatus than with the speaker. Is the Minister going to make an effort to get the EOM established in The Hague? What is the likelihood of success in the event that the Netherlands initially voted against the regulation? Have any decisions been taken or agreements reached on the location of the site? We hear in the corridors that Luxembourg would be in the race or that some agreements have already been made about it. I would like to hear from the Minister. Now that it looks like the EPPO is coming to the left or to the right, wasn't it better and wiser that this minister is half-turning than wandering?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u27	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has long stated that the Treaty of Lisbon has strengthened the position of national parliaments. In order to do justice to that position, parliamentary procedures must of course be properly followed. Both chambers should be respected. My group is happy to endorse the questions that Mrs Duthler has put on this subject on our behalf. Carefulness is important here. It is a rather far-reaching decision, a unique step taken in criminal cooperation. Two days before possible decision-making, not everything has been negotiated and the PIF Directive, which should determine which offences can be prosecuted by the EPPO, has not yet been crystallised. My group therefore believes that postponement can be justified. In fact, my group would like to insist on that. So far, we have been able to function very well without the EOM, so there are still a few weeks left. The subsidiarity problem that was raised here at the time had only a very narrow majority, unlike in the House of Representatives. My group did not support this at the time either. We believe that an adequate fight against cross-border financial fraud is of great importance to the Netherlands and to Europe. Given the declining confidence of citizens in Europe, it seems to my group that with a firm and more coherent approach in this area, the EU can demonstrate that European cooperation serves the interests of the citizens. Cross-border crime and therefore fraud benefit precisely from a lack of cooperation or a clear approach. You will inevitably see a waterbed effect. Think of the tax avoidance, which is extremely difficult to tackle if you do not have a coherent and unambiguous regulation. The fact that only 50% of OLAF's fraud cases are actually being prosecuted by national prosecutors could indicate that a clear approach is indeed not possible or that EU funds are not being sufficiently used to deal with fraud. Perhaps the Minister could tell us a little bit more about the background when he is familiar with it. Our group seems to be justified in developing that stick behind the door. Criminal cooperation within the European Union is, in fact, always between the Community and intergovernmental nature. That is understandable, because each Member State has its own criminal law culture, but it also has disadvantages. On the one hand, there is the issue of cross-border crime and fraud involving EU funds, which, on the other hand, call for a European approach. On the other hand, procedural safeguards are not all uniform and insufficiently harmonised. We are dealing with the ECHR and a number of directives, but that is far from a European Code of Criminal Procedure, so to speak. This often makes cooperation and mutual recognition very vulnerable. My group believes that these standards should and should be further harmonised, because in future crime will only cross borders more often. The current proposal, as it appears to be, seems to be a limited step towards a European Prosecutor. Mr. Schrijver said it, too. The criminal record is limited. The crimes are all very serious. There is a shared competence. Of course, there are many implementation problems that need to be resolved in practice, but we do want to go in that direction. Mr Rombouts has just outlined very clearly the shaky line of the cabinet on this proposal. Perhaps that has made our influence on the final result smaller than it could have been. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he has the impression that he might have been able to achieve more as an honest broker, or whether we have missed opportunities and, if so, which ones. According to the latest state of affairs, the Minister is at least considering participating in order to prevent the Netherlands from being disadvantaged as a non-participating Member State. Then you could get that waterbed effect again. We agree with the questions put by the other groups as to what further disadvantages this could have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u28	Mrs Strik is constantly talking about cross-border fraud and crime. She also says that this is a very modest criminal record. Does this mean that this bill on the European Public Prosecutor's Office is a first step for her on a road that goes much further, namely towards a general detection and enforcement of criminal law in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u29	That seems to me to be a very important step, but I can imagine that we are getting experience with how that goes and whether that actually leads to a more effective approach to crime, and that we are looking at whether there are other cross-border offences that would lend themselves to it, but there is no blueprint for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u30	This bill deals specifically with European fraud, fraud involving European funds or fraud. VAT fraud. That is a very limited, specific, albeit very extensive category. You could say that the European Public Prosecutor's Office will focus on this. But Mrs Strik clearly says that this could be an opening to a more general approach to cross-border fraud and crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u31	We are certainly open to that, but it seems to my group to be a good starting point. As I said, there are still a lot of questions about how the connection between national and European should go exactly. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with the question as to what further disadvantages there are to stand outside the cooperation of the European Public Prosecutor. Which brings me to another possible waterbed effect. If the same offence occurs in several Member States, can the EPPO choose which Member State to prosecute? It would then be possible to circumvent the country with the strictest procedural guarantees. Is that technically possible? On the basis of which criteria should be chosen where prosecution is actually to take place? How is any selectivity monitored? I was just talking about further harmonisation of procedural safeguards. Does the Minister also see this development as an additional reason or argument to be more positive on this point? Finally, I would like the Minister to speak a little more about what this would mean for the political accountability of the EOM and the national prosecutor. We're gonna have a delegate prosecutor who's gonna be prosecuting cases with the EOM's hat or the National D.A.'s hat. In one parliament, the minister can ask. On the other hand, that is the Commissioner and then the European Parliament has a role to play, if I see correctly. Can the Minister explain that further? How did these two get together? It is also about closer cooperation. Does that leave two separate tracks? In what way is there sufficient joint monitoring of how this cooperation works? We do not yet know very well about the phenomenon of enhanced cooperation, but perhaps that is going to happen now. It hasn't been used that much. What problems or benefits does the Minister see if it goes this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u32	Madam President. I cannot escape the impression that the Minister, who has been told here over and over again that most of Parliament does not see anything in the EOM, has a much milder tone in Brussels. The Minister strongly suggested "no, we absolutely do not want to" to have said so in Europe, but that is not clear. I therefore challenge the Minister to explain to me how he did that. I am curious about the other 14 parliaments of 11 countries that were against participation. Why is there no danger of disaster for Ireland, Denmark and the United Kingdom if they do not participate? The Constitutional referendum showed that the citizens of Europe no longer want Europe. Fortunately, more and more parties are waking up for this sound. The Dutch citizen therefore does not want a new European body in the form of a European Public Prosecutor's Office, to which Dutch sovereignty is transferred. The Member States themselves are concerned with criminal law, the capacity of the police and the public prosecutors, and what offences we prosecute and what we give priority to. The SP strongly supports effective, effective cooperation between Member States to combat and prevent fraud. It is therefore a good thing that there is cooperation in Europe between various police forces and the prosecuting authorities, but that is different from the transfer of powers and the restriction of national sovereignty. The EU is acting like a caterpillar in this area, under the pretext that it is necessary to combat fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u33	In this debate, the word'sovereignty' has repeatedly been mentioned, and now again. I think it fits in with the First Chamber to get a little more clarity about what is meant or should be meant by this term. Let me explain this, if the President will allow me. As I know, we opened the Constitution in the 1950s to transfer part of national sovereignty within the framework of international cooperation. We then did the same in the first EEC Treaty. This has been further explained by the Court of Justice; that when that Convention was established, the Netherlands voluntarily and consciously transferred part of its national sovereignty in order to achieve a number of objectives. That is why the use of the term'sovereignty' when it comes to the transfer of powers, international law and, above all, state law is not correct. In my opinion, sovereignty has become a political term, which is preferably used to counter European development. This is a long introduction, so that it is clear where this question comes from. Should we not talk about a transfer of powers, whether we like it or not, because that is the content of the debate, and not always questioning the concept of sovereignty? I cannot see that the sovereignty of the Dutch State would be restricted if we joined a European Public Prosecutor's Office, but that there would be a transfer of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u34	We received an introduction this morning from employees of the Ministry. There were also people from the state's attorney's office. Mr Engels was not there himself. It has also been explained that, if the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office or another public prosecutor's office conducts an investigation, it will have to be consulted at some point with the EPPO and that the EPPO will decide whether to take over the case and whether to prosecute at all in that case. I've also asked the state's attorney's office what it thinks. At that time, it is no longer decided by a local or national public prosecutor whether it can prosecute, but then clearly the European Public Prosecutor's Office decides whether or not to prosecute. Then you don't have to worry about that anymore. We believe that decisions on whether or not to prosecute and what case is being taken should be taken at national level. That is not Europe's concern. In the opinion of the SP Group, this should not be transferred either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u35	The latter is perfectly clear. Mrs Wezel's speech is entirely in line with what could also be expected. That's not my point. What Mrs Wezel has just explained confirms what I have tried to say before. Although this is a matter of shared competence, the fact that the European Public Prosecutor's Office determines or has a primacy in a number of areas is a consequence of the establishment of the structure of powers and the question of which powers you transfer or do not transfer...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u36	And that's why we're against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u37	Mr Engels has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u38	That is clear, but I would like to know from Mrs Wezel why she is always talking about the transfer of sovereignty. Transfer of sovereignty is a matter of interstate traffic and not of whether or not the Public Prosecutor's Office at national level cooperates with a European Public Prosecutor's Office which is still to be established on the basis of a particular structure of powers. It is not entirely clear: I am actually saying that I find the use of the term'sovereignty' misleading in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u39	In any event, the SP Group does not want to transfer power to Europe and wants to decide for itself. That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u40	Like Mrs Wezel, I had the pleasure of taking part in the briefing this morning. It was indeed very useful. I just have another memory. I have not heard the representatives of the Ministry of Justice say that the European Public Prosecutor's Office can prohibit the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office from prosecuting and prosecuting...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u41	Mr Schrijver is not quoting me very well. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u42	Mrs Wezel, Mr Schrijver has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u43	I thought Mrs Wezel took the word 'ban' in her mouth. Maybe I misunderstood her. All the better, because then we might agree that there has been talk of a right of priority. This is the case when the European Public Prosecutor's Office considers that the European interest is so great and that the European financial interests are so deeply affected that it must take charge of the investigation and prosecution itself, in cooperation with the national prosecutor. If the EPPO decides not to do it, I do not understand that there is a prohibition for any national prosecutor to do it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u44	Would it be okay if I responded to that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u45	Yes, because Mr Schrijver has spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u46	Several members have asked questions this morning. This showed that the pieces are not entirely clear on the exact position. The same question was also asked by the colleague of the VVD to the Minister, namely to explain exactly what is happening. How exactly does it work? We talked for at least ten minutes about whether or not permission should be requested. It has been stated in all kinds of different terms that at least there has to be permission, or whatever you call it, from the EOM in order to be able to prosecute. The national prosecutor must therefore ask the EPPO whether it can continue or not, or whether the EPPO will take over. That's my point. It might be good to ask the Minister to clarify this. Apparently, there are different views on this, or at least the documents do not make it clear exactly what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u47	I would be happy to endorse Mrs Wezel's questions. We know that over the years the Minister has developed into a great expert in this field. Let's all take advantage of his answers throughout the day. In the documents, I cannot, having read them, find that, if the EPPO decides not to prosecute, permission should still be requested by the national prosecutor to prosecute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u48	The point is that you first have to ask the EOM if it wants to prosecute or not. If the EOM then claims not to prosecute, you can apparently prosecute locally. Apparently, you can't prosecute on your own. Therefore, authorisation should first be sought from the EPPO. If the EOM says not to prosecute himself, it's okay. So the point is whether you should submit it to the EPPO first. I would like the Minister to clarify exactly what that is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u49	I checked my notes from this morning. The first sentence of the explanatory statement was that the Dutch Public Prosecutor can proceed independently. It should then report it. As Mrs Wezel says, it was indeed a search for the right word, so whether there should be 'approval', 'authorization' or 'consenting silently'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u50	"Absence," is that what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u51	You, Chairman, are also an expert in this jargon, I know. I think it is best if we ask the Minister what exactly is going on so that we can come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u52	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u53	I understand that it must always be about fraud involving an international dimension. I am not concerned with the word 'precedence' or 'admission'. Does the international dimension not mean that it makes sense to refer it to a European Public Prosecutor's Office and to consult it, precisely because national borders are being crossed? I'm just thinking out loud about what makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u54	It's about fraud involving EU grant money. It can happen in one country. There's nothing international about that. Let me give you an example. If the municipality of Lelystad receives EU funding to develop an area, there is nothing international about that. So basically you wouldn't necessarily need an EOM for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u55	Except that it's European taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u56	But why would that be necessary for an EOM? Why wouldn't a country be able to investigate that on its own? I do not quite understand Mrs Duthler's question. Perhaps she could clarify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u57	I think we should wait for the Minister's answer and then we can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u58	Yes. Mr. Chairman. The EU is acting like a caterpillar in this area, under the guise that it is necessary in the fight against fraud. Real problems such as inadequate and underdeveloped monitoring of EU grant accountability, lack of qualified detection capacity, lack of rule of law, as I have just heard Mr Schrijver say, and involvement of parts of politics in corruption, are not resolved by the EU, and certainly not by an EM. In the opinion of the SP, countries should learn to help themselves. If the EU takes over, it will not solve anything. It can even be seen as a form of colonialism. The creation of yet another European body makes no sense if the countries concerned do not apply the rules themselves and do not track down their criminals themselves. By setting up an EOM, the account is returned to other countries. That is why it is right that the Netherlands should not participate in the EOM, in order to prevent the Netherlands from having to bear the costs of the investigations in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u59	Mrs Wezel speaks big words like "colonialism," but it is of course true that, as we see now, a government itself decides to participate in the EOM. That is why it is also a question of unanimous decision-making. Then I wouldn't say we're being taken over. I do understand Mrs Wezel's point that the cause should also be addressed in the Member States where the prosecution is not flawless or the criminal justice system is not functioning properly. I fully agree with that, but the EPPO could contribute to tackling fraud, of which you have not eliminated the causes of one-two-three. The Dutch situation could also suffer if we do not have the opportunity to deal with this fraud. Think of the waterbed effect if you put some of the fight against fraud somewhere else, where it is not being prosecuted. Does Mrs Wezel also see this interaction, so if fraud is not dealt with in another country, it is not only a problem there but also for the interests of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u60	The important thing is that you investigate the cause of the fraud. There seems to be too little prevention and too little enforcement at the moment. If the real problem is not properly investigated, there is no point in setting up an EOM somewhere at the end of the chain. I refer to Eurojust and OLAF. There have been many initiatives, but apparently they have not worked sufficiently. There's a bit of an evaluation going on, but now we're starting something new. However, it is a question of what an EOM can do without a tracking machine underneath. Actually, an EOM can't do anything. Prosecutors lead investigations, but if there are no proper investigative officers in the countries concerned, then this will be nothing at all. The real problems are not being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u61	Can Mrs Wezel agree that this might be part of the solution and that it should perhaps be accompanied by further support for the criminal justice system in the Member States that fail?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u62	As long as you don't look at the real problems, there's no point. Then it's wasted money. The message the SP sends to the Minister for the next JHA Council is: The Netherlands is not participating. The Netherlands keeps its back straight. Yes to effective cooperation in the fight against crime. No to the further transfer of powers. So we say no to a European Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u63	As a result of this well-known summary, I wonder whether the SP is opposed to the transfer of national powers to combat crime under all circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u64	We are opposed to the transfer of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u65	Mrs Wezel says that, among other things, in the city of The Hague. We have a number of international criminal tribunals here. Not so long ago we discussed the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. This concerns the trial of very serious international crimes, such as war crimes and crimes against humanity. If I understand Mrs Wezel correctly, she thinks that this should not be the case and that we have wrongly transferred those powers to the International Criminal Court. It states that everything must be prosecuted and tried at national level. Does this also apply to war crimes and crimes against humanity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u66	Basically, you should prosecute them nationally. The position of the SP is: no transfer of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u67	Mrs Wezel says "in principle." It is against the principle of an international criminal court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u68	We are opposed to the transfer of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u69	That's obvious. In Mrs Wezel's view, that is an unlawful body.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u70	I'm not saying that. I say that we are opposed to the transfer of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u71	Do I understand correctly that Mrs Wezel sees the International Criminal Court as essentially an unlawful body because certain national powers have been delegated to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u72	I don't see it that way. I say that we are opposed to the transfer of national powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u73	Mr. Chairman. Unlike some of my colleagues, I am relatively neutral towards this minister. I have no history with him on this file, while other colleagues do. I am only a short Member of Parliament and will only be brief. I am pleased to be able to enter into dialogue with the Minister on this point. I would like to thank Mrs Duthler for her words. She has certainly expressed it on behalf of our group. I would like to make a few comments on this dossier, which now has a long history, and perhaps a long future, but perhaps not. Well, it's kind of central now. There is a problem with fraud in Europe, fraud with EU subsidies. There is also a problem with cross-border VAT fraud. The solution proposed is to establish a European Public Prosecutor who will be given priority over our national prosecution system. Mr Schrijver has just said that it is an addition. That's true, but it's a complement to hierarchy, with perseverance. There will be a submission of the Dutch system to this new European OM for the crimes in question, in the context and with the conditions set out in the proposal. In that sense, it is not a pleasant addition to the same, but an addition that is administrative. This means that this priority rule will mean something to the Netherlands. We recognise that a European legal order has been created and that it has grown. There was an interesting debate just now by two professors. I'm enjoying it. It should happen more often. I listened, I learned, but I also have my own idea about it. My view on this issue is that a legal order has grown in Europe, but no European sovereignty. There is still national sovereignty. This is demonstrated by the fact that we have to decide here whether or not we want to supplement the European legal order with powers. In this sense, we are still talking as a sovereign state about the extent to which we, as sovereign states, will continue to work together and possibly declare the European Public Prosecutor competent. For reasons of principle, we believe that criminal law, which at present does not belong as a core task in the European legal order, does not belong there in the future either. Nor do we think that the European legal order, which has grown and which has a certain legislative and administrative power in the areas where Europe has been declared competent, should be given some kind of inherent complement with detection. This is gradually building up a fully competent power at European level, of which we say: Europe is selective in the tasks we choose to do. That can mean an international legal order with a criminal court, I say to Mr Schrijver. In any case, my group is not going to challenge or question the legitimacy of the International Criminal Court, because we think that is very important. In this respect, we want to work together internationally in a focused and spirited way. We do not choose, when it comes to prosecution and specifically on European money or cross-border VAT fraud, to set up a European means of detection for that purpose, not least because I had a little debate with Mrs Strik about the possibility of extending this policy of prosecution to areas other than what is now strictly defined as European subsidy fraud and, possibly, VAT. Our fear is that the Netherlands will no longer have the core position on a number of points in order to maintain its own criminal justice system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u74	I am delighted to hear that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is being allocated so much power that, if we find something, it will be rolled out automatically. I'm looking at that a little more realistic. I think there is a great deal of restraint in many Member States. We hear different opinions from Germany, in the sense that this country wants to go further. Does the Christian Union realize that this involves the approval of Member States and that this is not going to grow by itself, like a snowball?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u75	That's an interesting question. If I answer the question in purely legal terms, then I conclude that the legal order has been stretched further and further in judgments of the European Court, without us as national parliaments having taken decisions on all these points. I am not saying that this is going to happen on its own, as Mrs Strik has just indicated, and that is a good thing. This will certainly not happen on its own, but the European legal order is dynamic. I'm just looking at the two professors as a reference point. It is not, and they will agree with it, that we give a piece and that everything else remains as it was. No, there's been some developments. There's gonna be new facts and new cases. In doing so, a legal order is developing. At some point there may even be a turning point from a simple international legal order to a kind of sovereignty-like whole, where our position will soon have to be looked back to see if it has disappeared. That's our point. We are not concerned with detecting this fraud, because it must be done with force. That is, by the way, a moral point first of all; perhaps I can say the same. There is much going on in our institutions, including in Europe. I would remind you of what happened around OLAF in the past. I thought Mr Schrijver said the same thing. A lot of this fraud takes place in those institutions. With more institutions, it doesn't automatically get better. Perhaps I can make the comparison that, if the European system is sick because there is fraud, that could be called a disease, the medicine that is being devised now, namely that European OM could help, but could also have a lot of side effects, which ultimately will not cure the disease, but make it worse. What matters now is the persuasiveness that this proposal helps in its specific approach to combat fraud. We don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u76	In his reply, Mr Sietsma refers to the two professors, in order to indicate that the legal order can indeed develop on its own. I like to be a little more precise and think about it, because it's not. The picture is falsely sketched and strengthened too often that the EU is only grasping and grasping and that we are no longer in control of it. We can now decide on this limited step and will have to take a decision on it again at any time. I firmly believe that this is being said again here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u77	I take note of that view, of that appreciation of reality. That's a choice; that's how you can explain it. I see other things, too, sometimes. In European case law, too, I see a huge development which we do not want to see, which I do not necessarily say is illegal, but which is decided in this international system. So I am not so sure that if we adopt this regulation in five years' time, we will still be in a position not to entrust this general, international, cross-border criminal law to this Public Prosecutor. I'd rather set boundaries on the front. I say this also with the knowledge of what has happened in the European institutions, when it comes to combating fraud. I do not hear much about this so far, but I would ask the Minister whether he can indicate that even the European bureaucracy can create a problem in itself when it comes to fraud. The more institutions, the more rules, the more exceptions I would almost say "the more justice is aimed at" - the more injustice can creep in the implementation of all these measures. That can be legal injustice, but it can also be illegal injustice. So far, my line has been quite fundamental and basic, but when I look pragmatically and when I look at the interweavings that are going to arise between a European Public Prosecutor's Office and our national prosecutors, when I look at the load of capacity required for this, when I look at the difference of opinion on priorities, I see that we can have a lot of trouble with this European Public Prosecutor, where the question is over and over again: is the yield, the usefulness of this new institution, decisive by definition compared to possible disadvantages that arise? That is a specific question to the Minister, to which I would like his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u78	I have a very clear taste in the Christian Union group of resistance to a European Public Prosecutor's Office. The EPPO is proposed to tackle fraud in those Member States where national authorities do nothing. That's what's bothering us all. Does the Christian Union have an alternative? How are we going to deal with those countries where fraud is taking place, but where the national authorities remain in their seats? I see this bill as a stick behind the door, but what alternative would the Christian Union Group see?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u79	I understand that question. I have been a Member of this Chamber for three months now and have to admit that I have not yet had a chance to develop and devise that alternative so quickly, so I am now concentrating on what is being presented to me. But the core is this. I would like to give two answers. The first is a moral problem, if the government, the public administration, is unable to tell society that it is not just about combating things that a clever boy, if he can, does. I am also thinking of issues such as VAT fraud. None of these are the underworld figures we think about when it comes to crime. These are the decent ladies and gentlemen who work in companies and organisations. What matters is that we are the first government to make a moral appeal. The second is that, as a national government, we must implement it in the best possible cooperation with other states. This public prosecutor is going to be led in an unclear manner for Mrs Duthler as well and will be accountable in a way that is unknown to her too. It is not clear how the system of responsibility we know will run for our national Public Prosecutor's Office in this respect. It may be that there will soon be a system that is not the system that you are looking at. That is my big problem, namely that we cannot see the benefits of one system or the other. I would like to end with three specific questions. In the letter from our Dutch OM I read the final conclusion that it seems that it is preferable to participate for pragmatic reasons. I think that is an incredibly subtle and sensible motivation, because I do not think it is very hard to formulate what is preferable. My question to the Minister is: does he also see that it is actually a leap in the dark and that perhaps for pragmatic reasons it seems that this could be the case and that there is no stronger argument than it says here? My second question to the Minister concerns the risk of broadening the scope of the mandate. It is now about EU subsidies, which can easily occur within a country and can therefore be traced nationally. That was just said by Mrs Wezel. Does the Minister see that risk of widening and, if so, how does he estimate it? My third question is: what about the system responsibility for this Public Prosecutor's Office, if it's going to exist? I await the answers to these questions before we finally take our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u80	Mr. Chairman. The intention of the EPPO is, of course, to reduce fraud involving EU funds, possibly including increased international VAT fraud. That is not quite clear, I understand, but perhaps the Minister knows something about it. It is very necessary to reduce fraud with EU funds. We may have less, but in other countries it is quite clear that it is necessary. The EPPO may put pressure on and even require criminal investigation. That seems to me to be a good reason not to improve things here, but to improve Europe. You could say that this is a somewhat ideal reason to be positive. But of course it's not that ideal. What is being done in other countries about fraud and is not being done in the field of investigation and detection has an immediate impact on what we can find in Europe. In fact, it's a very business reason to be positive. Partly at the request of the Netherlands, there was a much less centralised proposal than was originally proposed by the European Commission. In fact, investigations and prosecution remain entirely national, but under the incentive and possibly even the obligation from the EPPO. But investigation and prosecution remain in national hands. To return to the discussion that has just taken place with Mrs Wezel: I certainly did not understand that the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office should have permission to prosecute. I understand that the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office remains completely autonomous in its own prosecution decisions. Only when it comes to EU fraud will consultations be held with the EPPO on who will ultimately bring the prosecution. As far as I am concerned, the Minister may speak last. If we can possibly be obliged to prosecute, this will affect the capacity of our Public Prosecutor's Office and thus the priorities that can be set within it. On the one hand, investigations and prosecution remain national, but on the other hand, the EPPO can influence our priorities because we are forced to do more and do business differently than we would have imagined. Taking these two elements into account, there are a number of practical reasons to participate, or at least not to say that we do not want to participate. The costs of whether or not to participate are about the same according to the letter we received. The international procedures with which we have to work are becoming easier within the EPPO. If we stay outside, we will continue to rely on European investigation orders and arrest warrants. It's easier to do that within the EOM. Joining in also means having an impact on the practical further development of the EPPO, as there will be development in practice. We do not have that influence when, in the case of enhanced cooperation, an EPPO is established that we are outside. The government is in favour, if I read the letter correctly. The D.A. is also in favour of it under the present circumstances. Then the question remains as to why the government so prematurely wanted to adopt the position of the Lower House without even knowing the position of the Upper Chamber. But Mr Duthler has said enough about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-8.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Ten Hoeve. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
