ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to point out, as Members know, that another letter was received on this subject this morning. Speaking time was extended from four to five minutes in the order of business yesterday. I would be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Van der E. is 99 years old and lives in Haarlem. She's lucky she's still in her right mind, but she's bad on her feet. Her home nurse is Bianca. She's been there for years. The beans can't be stopped, but yes, she does. The windows aren't supposed to rag anymore, but she does. For the second time in two years Mrs Van der E. has been approved. I'm sure we'll have to take some time off. She's awake. She's losing her appetite. She's worried. She's 99 years old. Thanks to this Secretary of State, we keep looking at whether people really need the care and whether Bianca is coming. The question is whether Madame will make it to 100. With yesterday's ruling, the Central Board of Appeal actually says that re-indications are illegal, that there is a continuum from the old to the new law and that the re-examinations that have taken place are not really allowed. In 2012, the Secretary of State felt that 75% of household care could be cut because people really needed to be looked at, but now he's happy with the ruling. That's a mess. If he had simply made it clear in the law that household care is a task for the municipality, then there would not have been a rigorous reduction and the court cases would have been omitted. Is the Secretary of State going to fix the law? Is he gonna do that soon? Is he gonna make sure everyone who's had a re-examination sees that reversed? This could be the only conclusion after the verdict, right? For the introduction of the social disruption law, we debated a lot in this Chamber. The Secretary of State said: there will be customization, we will do what is really necessary; the network can do more, people's self-reliance goes up. He didn't come up with numbers and data. Now it appears that 20% of the elderly have no network. The Wmo doesn't lead to customization. The judge's gonna have to deal with it every day. Fired are everyday. That's a mess. All warnings about dismissals and wage dumping, about people without care, about municipalities that would spend the money on other things: the Secretary of State performed it as a scare-making. He performed it to say in 2015 that the introduction of the Wmo was controlled. Seventy thousand layoffs away. Professors calling the bell because of the loss of legal certainty. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau points to the vulnerability of the people. Municipalities are left with money. Does the Secretary of State recognize that everything he dismissed has become a frightening truth? And then TSN went bankrupt, the country's largest home care organization, the inventor of the pay dump. For a moment, it seemed like the Secretary of State was going to take charge. For a moment it seemed that he agreed with the municipalities that the people would stay together and the home care workers would retain their legal certainty. But here again: what a failure. Two-thirds not saved. 2,000 people without a job. And what happens to the people they cared for? The motion passed to tackle the top of TSN, no, he doesn't. And how does he deal with new bankruptcies, like with Diafaan? How can he promise 19,000 jobs while only 4,000 are added through the household aid allowance? Money for care has to go to care. Will the Secretary of State ensure that the 370 million remaining in the municipalities is earmarked? Is he gonna come up with an emergency bill to settle that? Last week Sandra told me: "I'm on the street after 24 years. Away with all the certainty. How can I pay my rent later, and the fixed charges? And then there's something left? I am single and for me this was a job, not a side job as it is done by many. The municipality where I live and work, Harderwijk, has chosen to transfer clients to other organizations but not to do anything for the employees. Clients don't understand what's happening. They're assuming nothing changes and we're just gonna keep coming. If you're trying to explain, the reaction is, I don't want to lose you. Last week was my last working week and I said goodbye to more than 11 people. That hurt a lot." This is the greatest failure of this Secretary of State: that he let this happen. He's standing there, he's looking at it, and he's not doing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the bankruptcy of TSN, but that might as well have been the bankruptcy of Diafaan or Pantein-Vivent. Thousands of people have lost their jobs and many care-dependent citizens have lost their help. Things are getting really bad. Does this Secretary of State feel responsible for all these people? And what does that prove? Or does this Secretary of State think: it will take my time; it will be March 2017 itself? In fact, the problem is very simple. If there's more to a company's salary costs than it comes in, that company goes bankrupt. Several times I have proposed to investigate the rates. However, the Secretary of State and a majority of this Chamber did not want that. The coalition parties are looking forward to the detailed rules in an announced General Measure of Governance. These rules should ensure that there is a good relationship between the price of one hour of domestic aid purchased and the demands made, including the collective agreement. However, this will only apply from 1 January 2017. It is clear that the General Measure of Governance is not a flawless one. The first variant has been withdrawn after criticism of the VNG. I haven't been able to find the second variant yet. That the first variant didn't make it, surprises me. These detailed rules are actually a bit the same as what is stated in the Responsible Market Behavior Code at Home Support. It's signed by the VNG. Why is this sticking? For the CDA, it is part of a fair economy that people receive a decent wage and associated working conditions for the work they do, including in 2015 and 2016. Will the Secretary of State finally investigate the contracted tariffs? There are municipalities that stick to the principle of that fair economy. What does the Secretary of State do with the municipalities where this is not the case? Does he dare or can he not do the research because he then has to engage in a thorough discussion with the relevant municipalities, while they will object to the fact that 40% of the state budget has also been cut off? It is now clear that the household aid allowance is not working. Municipalities use the money for a subsidised white maid for everyone. How acidic can it be, now that even the Central Board of Appeal has declared that domestic aid is simply covered by the Wmo? The CNV is currently working on a number of pilots to give home support a sustainable future. Yesterday I spoke to the alderman of the municipality of Berkelland, who is now working in the same way. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State or, if so, how he is involved in the new future of home support, and then please be a little concrete. It was a dark day for this Secretary of State yesterday. The report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau came out and shortly after, the Central Board of Appeal finally stated that domestic aid is covered by the Wmo, including clean bed linen and clean clothes. Apparently, the law is so vague that all this could happen. As far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State did not make a sufficient statement in all the discussions on this subject, although he now makes it appear differently in newspaper interviews. He introduced care reforms too quickly and the municipalities had to solve it for him. The judge has now provided clarity for this Secretary of State, but what a waste of time for all those citizens who have been deprived of domestic help and for employees who have lost their jobs. Oh, that's such a shame. It could have been so different. I wonder what the Secretary of State will do next. I don't mean just talking to the VNG. This secretary of state was so tough to feed everything with steam and boiling water. Is he now also a guy and is he going to find out where municipalities design domestic aid in violation of the judgments? And will he then ensure that this policy is changed and brought into line with the law? What is the Secretary of State going to do in concrete terms? If that's not enough, I'm considering a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mrs Keijzer's opinion is harsh and very clear. She's considering filing a motion. As far as she is concerned, should that be a motion of censure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u5	At such a moment you will see the difference between the PVV and the CDA. I am standing here to ensure that domestic help is properly designed in the municipalities. As far as I am concerned, the fact that I address this Secretary of State is crystal clear. He was the one who, at an emergency rate, threw all sorts of reforms over the fence, while at the same time bringing in a huge cutback. You have also read it in all kinds of articles in the newspapers; it is not surprising that municipalities have become cautious. Turns out they didn't follow the law. It is a law that is vague and on which we have had several debates. I have explained it myself several times, almost on the basis of cubes. Now the important thing is he's gonna do something. That's what I'm standing here for today. What is this Secretary of State really going to do to ensure that this household aid is properly designed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u6	It's the Secretary of State's fault. The CDA has said all along: this is not going well, this is not going well. Now it turns out that it really went wrong, he didn't do anything, and then Mrs Keijzer says: that's the difference between us and the PVV. What's the difference? That the CDA barks but doesn't bite?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u7	The difference is that I am speaking in terms of content and Mrs Agema is immediately running forward to talk about motions of censure. That's the difference. Earlier we had discussions about, for example, the pgb. Then we filed such a motion with the SP. Today we are talking about domestic help. I want to know from this Secretary of State what he's gonna do. If you look at the content of the judgments, it is not just a question of whether the household aid is covered by the Wmo. It is also a question of whether a municipality can indicate that there should be a clean house, without the decision stating exactly what that means. A lot of municipalities do it that way. The Central Board of Appeal is now saying that this cannot be done. Many municipalities have also transferred their adoption to a health care institution. The Central Board of Appeal is now saying that this cannot be done in this way, that is a finding that must be made by the municipalities and at least not by the care institution that provides the assistance. Many municipalities have put in place a general provision whereby for people with an income above 120% of the statutory minimum wage, about €20,000 gross, it is entirely self-sufficient. You can't do that either. This is the break-up of all those statements. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State on all these points whether he shares this analysis and whether he is going to address the municipalities. Otherwise, people will have nothing again and they will have to go back to court. And that's what I'm trying to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u8	It is a reply of about three minutes to my question that Mrs Keijzer started with: yes, but in relation to the PVV we respond to this issue in substance. In 2014 we have all been locked up in this room around the year to discuss the content of the Wmo, days and days and weeks and weeks. The Roompieces contain more than 1,000 pages. The CDA, like us, voted against in the end. The CDA must also conclude that it has gone terribly wrong and that our old people have been the victims of this. That was my question, too. Why doesn't the CDA put butter on the fish? Why is the CDA holding this Secretary of State over his head when that same CDA has always warned him?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u9	My reply just now was not an answer to Mrs Agema's question, but was the conclusion of my speech. I'm just trying to have a substantive debate. I want to hear from this Secretary of State today what he's going to do in concrete terms. We know him as a secretary of state who can talk beautifully. I've said, like, 15 minutes in an hour when you're at the end wondering what he actually said. I'm gonna sit here today listening very carefully to see if he's gonna do anything. It only indirectly uses a lot of big words with a lot of upliftment and then submits a motion of censure for the stage, being the 26th of the PVV, without having to debate the substance of the matter with this Secretary of State, which is not the CDA's, apparently the PVV's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u10	Last time, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u11	Very briefly, I have not even spoken. I'm responding to Mrs. Emperor's input. It's devastating in the direction of the Secretary of State. Then I can ask that question, can't I? I have not even spoken; my term is yet to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u12	Check it out, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u13	We're gonna wait and see. I call Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr. Chairman. Bankruptcy only has losers, and that is no different in the bankruptcy of TSN. There is now clarity, but for many people involved it is not the end of an uncertain period. Just now, I spoke to employees who have travelled here with the FNV to join the debate. One of them told me that she could work with another employer, but she could work for €11.11 instead of the €12.88 she earned at TSN per hour. This saves €300 for a full-time employment. Over the past few months, many stakeholders have been working hard to find solutions. The continuity for support is arranged, as I understand from the Secretary of State. The fact that a solution has been found for many clients and some of the employees is good. I also really hope that many of the people who get care will keep their trusted caregiver. As regards the settlement of TSN's bankruptcy, the Secretary of State says: it can really be done properly. I wonder if everyone involved feels that way. Yeah, 60% of TSN's home helpers have a new job. A large proportion retains wages and working conditions. That's a relief for these people. It also means, however, that it is not well arranged for many home care workers and that they cannot continue under the old working conditions or now have to apply for another job. This concerns more than 40% of TSN's original employees, i.e. about 5,000 people. Is it well arranged if, by means of an interim ruling, it is necessary to clarify whether employees can be taken over under other conditions of employment, if they have to go to court? GroenLinks does not think so, because it means that for a large part of the employees the working conditions do not remain the same at all. And that was the starting point, wasn't it? In any case, that was the starting point of the amendment which I and Mr Otwin van Dijk were accepted by the Labour Party. If that amendment is not enough to protect these people, then, as far as we are concerned, the WMO needs to be adapted on this point. I had a more far-reaching amendment during the discussion of the Wmo together with the SP. That was rejected at the time. However, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he thinks that the law on this issue should indeed be amended. After all, a large part of the care workers lose their jobs despite the solutions found. What's the Cabinet going to do to give these people perspective? How is it just well arranged for them? In fact, I find it hard to see in the last week that the money earmarked for the maintenance of work for home-care workers, the household-help allowance, remains on the shelf. How is this still not being used properly? The bankruptcy of TSN is not on its own. It is one of the symptoms of too rapid decentralisation, with cuts and not a careful transition and, above all, not people at the centre. The ruling of the Board of Appeal and the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, which came out yesterday, confirm this for the GroenLinks Group. Household care is, however, a task for municipalities. It's gotta be customized, too. However, this tailor-made work must be made possible by the State Secretary, including in the financial sense. This morning I read that the Secretary of State states that a new law always discusses the finesses in execution and that it is a pity that people have to go to court for this. But that is precisely what the Secretary of State is in control of himself. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this shows that the cabinet must continue to assume its responsibility to ensure proper implementation of the law and support municipalities in doing so. My group is very concerned about the fact that the Social and Cultural Planning Office states that the implementation of the Wmo is a black box. If even municipal councils are not clear about what care is involved and what people are involved, how can municipal councils properly control it? What is the Secretary of State going to do to improve the view on the implementation of the WMO? Finally. As I said, I spoke to TSN employees this morning and I also received a Wmo repair kit. I'd like to present it to the Secretary of State through you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u15	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u16	The Secretary of State must no longer hide behind municipalities which have to carry out tasks with a lot of government cuts. He shouldn't hide behind judges. If something is not properly regulated in the law, if something does not work as it is intended, he must make sure it is repaired.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u17	For those who follow us in the public gallery, I would like to say that the abbreviation Wmo, here often cases, stands for 'Social Support Act'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u18	I just heard my colleague Leijten say 'disruption' instead of'support', Mr President! Well, that's more like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u19	I'll keep the official abbreviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. I say to Mrs Keijzer that all the terms of force that I could come up with do no justice to the insanity of the situation before us and of which our elders have been the victims. Since the introduction of Van Rijns Wmo 2015, one third of the municipalities have cut down on domestic aid. Eleven municipalities abolished domestic aid altogether. Twenty municipalities just didn't consider domestic help as part of the Wmo anymore. The elderly have lost their domestic help; these are the people who had to stay home because the nursing homes were closed down. Tens of thousands of home-care workers lost their jobs and organizations collapsed massively. Why? Because this Secretary of State allowed this to happen, because this Secretary of State deliberately sat on his hands for almost a year and a half and deliberately did not intervene when municipalities took a walk with his law. I quote from a letter from a year ago: "If the facts show that a municipality deviates more than occasionally from the legal frameworks and the city council does not assume its responsibility, I have the possibility to use the powers under Article 2.6.8 of the Wmo 2015 and the Revitalisation Law generic supervision." And: "To date, however, this has not been necessary and municipalities are still implementing it within the legal framework." The Secretary of State therefore did nothing: the implementation was within the framework of the law. Now the highest court has ruled. In practice, the massive removal of domestic aid, the reduction of hours, the simple passing on of cuts to people or the complete cessation of the process? You can't do that. This should be the moment when the Secretary of State goes through the dust. But no, he responds in the manner known to him, contrary to the letter we received a year ago. I quote: "This ruling of the Central Board of Appeal is in accordance with the way I meant the 2015 Wmo." He writes in his response that the statements are in line with the law and its purpose. The statements may be, but the practice is not. This contradiction is particularly serious. Not only did the Secretary of State make the massive blow happen, but he defended it as well. He never intervened because he didn't think it was necessary. That's what he wrote to us: the implementation took place within the legal framework. The truth is the opposite of what the Secretary of State is now claiming. Luckily, we have everything in writing. Van Rijn has fallen through the basket. His fine talk has been exposed and reduced to a hell of a cut. With his reaction he fails all the more, because even now, after the judge's ruling, we still don't see a fist of him on the table of municipalities that make a pot of it. There is no change of policy. He's not doing anything. He only announces that the system is working because the judge is acting. So that's his message to all those dependent, light-demented high-age people: go to court, because I'm not forcing my law to be properly respected. What do you do when you're old and alone and you don't get it so well anymore? What does all this have to do with TSN? Of course, TSN has been in heavy weather for a long time and deserves criticism for its failing policy and its wage drop. But the last round of austerity, the hundreds of millions that Van Rijn cut back on domestic aid, turned TSN upside down. I quote TSN from an open letter to the House of Representatives: "Many municipalities even stop funding most of the home help." As we know, Van Rijn did nothing with this information. The Wmo is like a vase that was tossed. Instead of having Van Rijn stick the pieces together again, he let the municipalities waltz over it. The shrapnel was shredded to pulp. The elderly became the child of his account: older people aged 82.5 years on average, people who had to move through their polluted house alone and alone without a rollator. This horror image became a reality, where people in congregations thought, "Let's just let them go." What kind of pollution? What kind of loneliness? What the hell are you gonna keep an eye on? Get your maid help out of here! That's, like the VVD said in election time, cleaning. The PvdA not only watched, but delivered the Secretary of State who is responsible for this misery. It's all deeply scandalous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. 30 November 2015 was a fierce day for 12,000 employees of TSN Home Care, who were told that the company had applied for suspension of payment. Exciting months followed for employees and clients for whom there was a lot of uncertainty for a long time. On 16 March 2016, the bankruptcy was final, but municipalities, which are responsible for home care from the Wmo, managed to maintain a large part of the care continuity for the clients. That is a compliment to the municipalities, the curators, the care institutions and certainly the professionals. Not everything's going well. We are pleased that the care continuity has been maintained to a large extent, but the CNV hotline receives worrying signals about abuses in organisations following the acquisition of care. The edges of the contracts are being searched. Maximum flexibility is required in relation to minimum security. Does this picture match the Secretary of State's? To what extent is the Responsible Market Behavior Code respected by all parties? For D66 it is important that people get decent working conditions and industrial relations. Fortunately, 60% of home help, i.e. quite a significant part, has been given a new job with another provider, for the most part while maintaining working conditions. Of course, that sounds nice, but how large is the group of people who have been allowed to retain their working conditions? Mrs. Voortman and I were just talking to a large group of home helpers. A woman said she had fallen 15% for the same job. I'd like a reaction to that, not to the individual case, but to the broader picture. We have seen that TSN and everything around it have caused a lot of unrest. There's been a lot of confusion. The time of the impending bankruptcy was, of course, uncertain for a lot of people. I therefore ask the Secretary of State if this was a unique situation. Colleagues have already mentioned a number of other organisations. How's that going? Are there many more organisations on the verge of falling down? Is this Secretary of State gonna get involved in that again? I mean that as a positive intervention. I come to a number of broader issues, such as home care, such as the issue of alpha help. On the one hand, the Secretary of State says that it is not impossible to work with alpha helpers. On the other hand, he says: I want a legal ban on alpha helpers. I find that unclear. I have read back what the Secretary of State said about this in recent debates and I do not really remember. What does the Secretary of State want with the alpha helpers? At the same time, we see all kinds of beautiful, positive initiatives emerging. Yesterday we saw brave helpers at Pauw in Apeldoorn, who just started with a cooperative themselves. D66 has been in contact with this group of brave ladies. They say that they face a number of financing problems. There are different health codes and delivery conditions per municipality. There are a number of obstacles. Mr Van Dijk has already tabled a motion on this matter. I myself asked for a response as part of the debate on civic participation. What is the picture of the Secretary of State of State of these barriers? Can people easily or not start a cooperative? It seems like a very nice instrument to me. I'm coming to yesterday's trial. We are pleased that there is clarity and clarity about how this law should be interpreted. Apparently, that could have happened wrong. This Chamber, I think, has said quite clearly how it is meant to be, but unfortunately it required a judge's ruling. The municipality can no longer say: by default we give an hour and a half domestic help. There must be an objective and independent investigation. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. I think it's very important that people, now that there's a verdict, don't have to go to that judge anymore. I'd be really embarrassed if there were any other municipalities that would interpret the law differently. I think that the Secretary of State should then appeal to the municipalities and perhaps even think about the so-called administrative escalation ladder, which means that at some point there might just be sanctions if municipalities do not comply with the law. I'm very curious to see what the Secretary of State is going to do now that there's a verdict. I would also like to draw attention to the quality of the kitchen table discussions. They are very important in the process of being able to properly assess where someone is standing and what someone needs and what they don't. I've had a lot of conversations, including with the elderly. When you hear what those conversations had been like, you think: that can't be the intention. Sometimes older people are also very modest in showing how they are actually doing. My final topic is the household aid allowance. It is misinterpreted in a number of municipalities. It is also used for non-WMO indications. I don't think that's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u22	We have debated a great deal here about the "Social Disruption Act," as I call it. The Secretary of State always said that there was tailor-made work, that people got what they really needed, that we were going to promote people's self-reliance and that the network could solve all that well. Now it turns out that there was no evidence whatsoever for that, that there was no basis at all for thinking that. Now my question to D66 is whether she feels a little cheated by this Secretary of State. It has supported this policy for these reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u23	The Secretary of State has indeed indicated that people are entitled to customization. We have had several debates on this, and that is also what the law is intended to do. I find it scandalous that a number of municipalities have misinterpreted and applied this law. I think it's a good thing there's a court ruling. I do think the Secretary of State should be in charge. I think it is no longer possible for municipalities to say that they do not have to be customised. That was the first thing I wanted to say about that. On the question of participation, the self-reliance of people, I asked a question yesterday in the scheme in connection with the debate that Mrs Keijzer also requested on my behalf. Here's what I want to know. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has concluded that people are sometimes not self-reliant. People sometimes don't have an informal network. My question to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau is: have these people been given care? Of course, if people don't have a network and aren't self-reliant, people need support and care. That is why I asked for a response from the Secretary of State yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u24	The Secretary of State failed to include in the law that household care is part of it. D66 agreed to that. He then cut back so hard that the municipalities chose not to give this more or much less. To move the blackbird to the municipalities I find a little too short. My question was another one. The Secretary of State has often said here that he had the facts and that people who criticized the policy or made predictions about the policy did scare-making. Mrs Bergkamp has sometimes taken it in her mouth. He's once accused me of it. Fired who would fall or people who wouldn't get care, none of that would happen; that was scary. However, the facts used by the Secretary of State to underpin his policy appear not to be there at the moment. People are not as self-reliant as they were supposed to be, is in the SCP report. People don't have as much network as they were supposed to or they can't afford it themselves, even if that's supposed to be. My question was: doesn't D66 feel a little cheated by the Secretary of State, because he did use it to get his austerity policy through the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u25	D66 has a different view of society than SP anyway: with the SP the glass is always half empty and with us it is half full, but sometimes you can achieve very nice things together. Indeed, I have said in the direction of the SP: be careful with your expressions. I was not concerned with the people who were fired, even though Mrs Leijten said that they were. I think it is important to correct that, because I was talking about the example that older people should sleep under the bridge. That kind of example and that kind of talk scares older people. I have indeed made a comment on this, but I have never nuanced how bad it is that people lose their jobs. Mrs Leijten asked me how I look at the Secretary of State. Yesterday, during the scheme, I specifically asked about the people who have no network and are not self-reliant, because of course these people need support and care. If that is not the case, then I agree that something is not going well in the system we agreed to with the Secretary of State. We will have to deal with each other, and that is what I stand for: the things that go wrong must be solved. Moreover, following Mrs Keijzer's and I's request, we will also have a debate on the results of the study of the Social and Cultural Planning Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u26	I never said people should sleep under the bridge. People are forced to move and I've talked about that a lot. You can't deny that. I asked another question. There's going to be billions of billions of dollars! (ii) to cut back on the care tasks transferred to the municipalities. This has also been done under the responsibility of D66. Some people in the Chamber have warned about the consequences. These warnings have been put away as scare-making. These people wouldn't have the facts in order, but now it turns out that fearmaking is the reality. There are people without a network! The Social and Cultural Planning Office says the same now, but the Secretary of State did sell it with anointing words about networks and customization. It would get better. For everyone!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u27	And your point is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u28	I really want an answer to the next question. You may now be concerned about the results, but don't you feel deceived by the Secretary of State? After all, he told you that billions of dollars could be saved, while we now see with our own eyes the damage that is resulting from it. We can indeed debate this. Fine, that's what we're gonna do. But there is also someone here in the room who has told you that it could be done, even if it could not be done at all. Doesn't that make you feel cheated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u29	Two things have happened this week. There is a judge's ruling and I have just indicated that I am pleased with that ruling, because it gives even more clarity. I say'more clarity', because I always felt that the law should be interpreted in such a way that an investigation should always be carried out. Indeed, I have used the word "congratulation" for the municipalities that still see reason to let people go to court. Mrs Leijten knows how I feel about self-reliance, because I have always said that it cannot be that people do not get the help and support they need. I know it wasn't the Secretary of State's intention either. The report of the Social and Cultural Bureau states that in many cases people do not have that network. Self-reliance is therefore a problem. My question is: did these people get help or not? We have tried to get an answer to that from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, but I do not know if it has investigated that. In any case, it was not possible to give an answer, and that is why I want to hear it from the Secretary of State. My party insists that people who need support and care get it, too. If people don't have a network, they shouldn't depend on a network they don't have. Then care and support must be provided!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u30	I come back to the D66 ruling that it should not really be necessary for people to go to court, especially now that the judgment of the Central Appeals Board is there. I totally agree with her. In the treatment of the Social Support Act, it has not been possible to anchor a local or regional ombud function as an alternative to the court corridor in the law. How does D66 look at the regional or local ombud function in the light of last year's developments, when so many people had to go to court anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u31	I say two things about that. I hope, first of all, that this is no longer necessary because of the ruling. So I would also like to hear the Secretary of State say that this really needs to be stopped. With this I point out that I think it is important that this should be prevented. In addition, when it comes to the regional children's ombudsman, my party has said that we are very happy if there are also local opportunities to complain and get support. I think it is up to the municipalities themselves to decide in what form they want to do so, but I think it is a very good initiative if a municipality says that there should be an extra window, in addition to the client advisory councils, which, of course, we still have, and that there should also be a regional ombud function. So it's fine if a municipality decides to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u32	Unfortunately, we do not see that all municipalities do. Some municipalities have organised it locally, others have done it in a regional context. However, we can see that so many people really can't do anything but make the corridor to the judge. Then an ombud function can do a lot. How can we, from the Empire, ensure that this becomes a possibility? Would it be an idea to organise this nationwide for those people who are not provided in the municipalities or regionally?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u33	I think it is important first of all to prevent people from going to court; Mrs Dik-Faber will agree with me. I also agree with her that this regional or local ombud function needs more attention. Maybe it is possible to ask the Secretary of State for more urgent consideration, to discuss this with the VNG and to really set up more guidance. I share Mrs Dik-Faber's view that this is a fine local instrument, which can certainly have a function if the city council so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mrs Bergkamp indicated that everyone should have the care and support he or she needs. I very much agree with that, of course, and I believe that everyone here agrees with that. But if we look at the way in which decentralisation has taken place, with enormous cuts, with changes that have been taking place in the course of the financial year, with municipalities that did not know exactly who needed this care, should we not conclude that this has been too fast, with excessive cuts, and that there is still a great deal of need for repair in the law as it stands today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u35	As Mrs Voortman also knows, I also asked, for example, when dealing with the Youth Act, whether we should not take more time to do so. In the end, we agreed to this law together, but I think that we said together: it is a very complex law, doesn't it take more time? I also remember the VNG didn't want any delay. A lot of other organisations didn't want that either. I think we can conclude that it is a huge transition. I think it is a good thing about municipalities that, with a number of difficult factors, they have ensured the continuity of care in a very good way in many areas. Today we are talking about domestic aid, but whether it is the Wmo or the healthcare law, the municipalities have done good work in many areas. But you can see that in a number of areas there is certainly a need for a repair. That is why we have many debates and general discussions on the issue of care, and I think we do this every time in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u36	I am pleased to hear that D66 also thinks that the law needs to be amended on a number of points. I am very curious about the concrete proposals made by D66 on this point. For us, the speed and the great cuts were among the reasons why we voted against the Wmo. When I look at the law as it is now, I think a number of points need to be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u37	You can put all this into your own term, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u38	Yeah, I did, but I didn't hear that back from D66. I shall confine myself to one point. I'd like to hear the following from D66. Does the D66 Group also think that it is much clearer, much firmer, than it is now in the law to take over people in the event of bankruptcy or in the case of a tender?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mrs. Voortman says a few things. I'm gonna go over my own lines, let's just say. Let us, for example, look at the Youth Act. That was a difficult debate. We have been concerned about the deadline, and we have found each other there. However, when I say that we need to fix a number of things, I am not talking about the law but about implementation. The evaluation of the law is in a number of years. That is why we need to gather good information. What matters to me is that municipalities also have time to come to a good execution. So when I talk about repairs, I am talking about implementation and not so much about the law, because we dealt with it not so long ago. Or weird things have to happen; then, of course, with Mrs Voortman, I want to take a good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mr. Chairman. If you're working as a household helper, you don't have an easy time. Much has changed in care. These changes create uncertainty. There is uncertainty as to whether you will still have a job in the next month and whether you can still help the older people, who you have been looking after for years and who you are coming to. Those older people, for whom you work with heart and soul, suffer from that same uncertainty. Is the government still there for me if I don't make it myself? Do I get the support I need? Can I stay at home if I want to? If you work as a household helper, you need to be able to trust that your employer is good with you. You can expect your employer to make sensible decisions. Buying market share by large organizations and fooling your staff is not a wise decision. If you deliberately lose on an assignment, you shouldn't call for help if your company gets in trouble. The same applies to vulnerable people who call on the municipality. We have agreed that the municipality will be there for you if you cannot organize support in your own environment. When municipalities fill out customary work by attracting court cases, this is just as unwise as the behaviour of home care providers who deliberately asked for too low a price.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u41	I see Mrs. Agema wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u42	What kind of crazy contribution is this from the VVD? In election time, the VVD said that domestic aid should be completely reduced. We can still hear Minister Schippers say: 'it's just cleaning'. That's what happened: half of it's been cut. And now the VVD says the municipalities have to do their job. The VVD doesn't think so at all. What a ridiculous contribution!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u43	We realize that we have had to make difficult choices to ensure that not only now, but also in the future, the help is there when you really need it. We took care of that. We would very much like this to remain so and that municipalities carry it out, because only those can decide that there is a need for tailor-made work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u44	The VVD does give the municipalities a slap on the wrist here, but wants to get rid of the domestic help. How is this possible? How is it that the VVD spokesperson does not know her own policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u45	We have always wanted to live in our own environment and that we want you to remain independent for as long as possible. If you need care, support and domestic help, there's room for that. We want to preserve that space now, but also in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u46	I do like the other tone of the VVD. I also remember, as Mrs Agema rightly points out, that several VVDs have said that domestic help is not a concern. So I'm very happy about this. I am curious to see what this means in practice. After all, the municipalities have to deal with the framework set by the cabinet, i.e. with the 75% cuts in household care. What's the VVD gonna do? What repairs is the VVD going to propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u47	We'd like you to get the help you need close by, in your own neighborhood. That is why we have been in favour of decentralising this aid in the Wmo to municipalities. We want the choices made there to be made and clients there to have their own direction. We now see at TSN that 40% of the clients who have directed themselves and that people have been able to keep their own help. We want that policy to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u48	40%, which means 60% isn't. There are currently 5,000 people from TSN on the street. What does the VVD have to say to these people? If the VVD wants to keep that care available and make sure that people can keep their jobs, then it really has to say something else and not just point to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u49	If companies like TNS make unwise decisions and register for care that they can't even convert into wages for their people, if they're so unwise, if there's such mismanagement, then you can't go through with it. Then you have to say you can't support that bad policy. Then you need to see how you can continue that help. That's what's happened now. We just want that to happen much more often in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u50	If that low price makes one provider go bankrupt and you switch to another provider, it goes bankrupt, too. Of course, the VVD understands that. That is a structural failure, structural injustice of the government. The VVD has always said: we do not consider household care to be a concern; care is not an employment project. Now she takes over a bit of the Secretary of State's sales talk about direction, self-reliance and networks. The VVD knows as well as I do that it's not. That's all coming out now. But my question is another. Yesterday, the Central Board of Appeal did not turn a blind eye to the municipalities, but to the legislator. The law was unclear as to whether domestic care is a task. That is indeed the case. There is also a continuum between the old law and the new law. Reindications for much less concern are therefore illegal. The cuts imposed on the municipalities are therefore unsustainable. The VVD, together with the Labour Party and some tolerant parties in the Chamber, has given an unworkable task to the municipalities. Wouldn't it be smart if the VVD says: we acknowledge that, that's the judge's ruling and we make sure that the discount on household care lapses?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u51	We realize that clients and also people who work in care have a very uncertain time. That is why we welcome this statement, which gives clarity. What's going on, anyway? In that statement, it is said that municipalities have to provide customised services. Therefore, the VVD decentralised the Wmo to the municipalities. We believe that clients should keep their own direction as much as possible. We don't want the same care for everyone. We don't want big home care organizations, we want customised care. This is now being clarified, and that is really a step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u52	I quoted Sandra in my term. Sandra and all her colleagues give tailored care, day in, day out. No alderman does that; no secretary of state does that; no MPs do that; they do that. The policy makes that impossible and all those nice sales talk doesn't work. The Central Board of Appeal has said that the indications under the old law have not just been issued and should not simply lapse. That also means that you can't just cut 40%. Is the VVD prepared to help the municipalities and take the austerity off their plate? Only then does the VVD have the right to speak, if there are still municipalities that make a pot of it and if there are still employers who are going to register under the price.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u53	I agree with Mrs Leijten that there are vulnerable people who call for care and help from the municipalities. I do not think that municipalities can hide behind rules and that a judge should be required to ensure that they deliver customization. In that sense, I welcome that statement, because now we know that there is a need for tailor-made work. There's room for that. This makes it possible for people to live longer at home and for people to have more control over their lives. That's the VVD in front of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u54	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u55	This is not an answer to the question. Why isn't domestic care the task of the law? Because it's been cut so hard and you can't force it from municipalities. Municipalities then say: how can you give us a task without means? Now the judge has said that it is a task that belongs in the law. From this it should follow that the government with the decentralisation of policies also delivers the money. Are you willing to do that, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u56	The VVD very much wants municipalities to look at what people need individually. That room's here. This can ensure that people get the help they need. Given the current uncertain situation, there is uncertainty among people and employees. We are well aware of that. We need to take that step, and we need to remove that uncertainty. I will therefore call on the Secretary of State to do so. We want everyone to have the help they need if they cannot be provided by their own environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u57	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u58	The VVD stands for a society in which you take care of yourself and care about someone else. If you're appealing to the city, you can expect customization. If you're working as a household helper, you should be able to rely on your employer. I am not going to make any efforts today to keep up companies that have deliberately got themselves into trouble. What is the Secretary of State going to do to remove the uncertainty people feel? What is he going to do to make sure that municipalities that do not want to do customization are going to do this? How does he ensure that there is room for the choice of clients to keep their own help? We now see, after the bankruptcy of TSN, that many people need it. In 40% of cases, the direction has remained with clients, with continued assistance. The VVD wishes all clients. I want municipalities to keep the policy freedom to opt for family help or another healthcare provider. It must not be a dictation from politics The Hague to decide what is good for people locally. There is no way to provide care. A good example of this is that of the twelve redundant employees of home care organisation Vérian, who have set up a cooperative, which allows them to continue providing domestic help to clients they have known for many years. The municipality of Apeldoorn immediately offered them a contract. The home help and the client just decide for themselves what help is needed. There can be much more than under the yoke of a large home care organization. How are we going to make successful initiatives such as in Apeldoorn, where a group of domestic assistants themselves started a cooperative? Fortunately, a lot of people are still at work or back to work. Fortunately, many vulnerable people have been able to keep their trusted help. That's great, but it doesn't take away the uncertainty of all those other people. This Secretary of State must work very hard with municipalities, healthcare providers and anyone who goes on about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u59	I'm a little confused. I hear the VVD speaking very warm words about domestic help, when she actually wanted to get rid of it. Anyway, that's today's profits. At the same time, I see the VVD agreeing with all kinds of job plans of this cabinet, as today very concretely with regard to the household aid allowance. Does the representative of the VVD Group know how many jobs have been created with this household aid allowance and how much has it generated per formation site?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u60	We have seen that the household help allowance was an instrument to help people from job to job, to guide people who were fired to another job. We thought that was a very positive ambition. However, we have also seen that it does not work equally well everywhere. So we find it very positive that municipalities now have more policy freedom to spend it as they wish. That freedom is there now. We wish them to all the congregations. We have chosen the CDA for a reason and have also supported the motion to release municipalities in the way they spend the money they get from the Empire. That's why we're getting fired. I know that's what the CDA was for. This makes it possible for municipalities to spend the money where they think it is best to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u61	Unfortunately, the household aid allowance isn't that big of a deal. The household aid allowance is a bureaucratic monstrum, with the condition that people can be asked for their own contribution of €10 per hour. I have calculated that this does not work, because someone with a minimum income cannot afford those €10 per hour at all. So it doesn't work. In addition, there is no freedom of policy, not even at all. I will tell Mrs Schut how many jobs are involved. At the end of the year, some 125 million jobs were created. It's often part-time, so you get to about 1,400 formation sites. It has therefore cost €87,000 per formation site. Where is the VVD when it comes to actually doing something about employment? The VVD was always of that, but unfortunately I don't see that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u62	We are in favour of people being at work as much as possible and staying at work. That is why we often make decisions that may be difficult now, but which in the long term create a lot of jobs. That is why we also want to see a wider use now of the amount initially intended only for the household aid allowance. We support that policy, because then you can put the money where it really is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u63	I have twice tabled a motion to get rid of all these bureaucratic rules and simply make them available to municipalities for domestic aid. If I make a motion today stating that municipalities no longer have to deal with all kinds of demands of the Ministry, does the VVD support that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u64	In my opinion, there is already much more freedom in municipalities to spend that money. At first it was very strict, but it has already become wider. We want people who lose their jobs to get back to work as soon as possible. That's what it's for. I believe that this is now being achieved as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u65	We will continue the debate, but I would ask you all to look at the clock once in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u66	I listened to you immediately, Mr. Chairman. It's almost lunchtime. I have one more question. I also share the point that the government has not made very good plans in terms of employment. However, my question concerns yesterday's court ruling. The VVD also stated in the argument that it is happy about this and that it should no longer be the case that people have to go to court because of uncertainty, because municipalities can no longer have that uncertainty. Does the VVD agree with me that if it does, this State Secretary should consider addressing municipalities and, furthermore, giving a sanction at some point if a municipality does not comply with the law? How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u67	I can imagine, but first I just want to hear what the Secretary of State himself has to say about that. The most important thing is to remove the uncertainty that existed in the past. This means that people, municipalities and employees know where they stand, so that we can also deliver tailor-made work for the future and have clarity. This way we can build on a good execution of the Wmo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u68	In any case, I am glad that the VVD says that she can imagine something. I think that's a start. Otherwise, we'll listen to the Secretary of State's reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mrs Schut continued her speech in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u70	I had already finished my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u71	Mr. Chairman. The bankruptcy of TSN, until recently the largest home care organisation in the Netherlands, affects not only thousands of workers, but perhaps especially the thousands of elderly, chronically ill and disabled. These people appealed to TSN for their support. In November last year the uncertainty about the future of TSN began. Reductions, pressure on the tariffs and wrong decisions of TSN itself have led to the eventual bankruptcy. Since then, the curators, healthcare providers and municipalities have worked together to minimise the negative impact on clients and employees of TSN. I am pleased that it has been possible to provide continuity of support to all clients, often while maintaining their trusted healthcare provider. The Chamber has made clear statements on this by means of motions for resolutions. At the same time, it is good to see that a large proportion of the TSN staff could work with other organisations. Unfortunately, this does not apply to everyone. However, I can see that new initiatives and innovations are also taking place in the care sector which offer opportunities. Let me give you two examples. The first example has already been mentioned. In Apeldoorn, twelve former employees of Vérian, another home care organisation, will soon start the first care cooperative for domestic help with the name Helpwoon. This is a wonderful initiative. I believe that municipalities should be given sufficient room for these and other initiatives to ensure that support is properly provided at home. Let us not forget that the tasks are decentralised. Prior to this debate, I have had contact with several aldermen. There's a great willingness to think with it. I'm glad. My second example is that municipalities like to work with the new job support at home. Here, however, they run into cooperation with the health insurance companies. I do not think there has been a WMO debate in which I did not raise this issue. Compulsory cooperation is enshrined in the law by an amendment tabled by my group, among others, but in practice this remains a bottleneck, now again for renewal of care. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? Recently, providers have also been able to use innovation funds. There's a lot to do about this. The municipality of Enschede has even been sued. Will the Secretary of State clarify the conditions for these innovation funds? Who can and who can't claim it? Many municipalities are dealing with the question of how to ensure that in the procurement of care there is not competition on price but on quality. This, of course, encourages the Christian Union. Although the Code of Responsible Market Behaviour has not been signed by all municipalities, I now see in practice that it is an important touchstone for municipalities. There will also be an AMvB. Can the Secretary of State give an update on this? The ruling of the Central Board of Appeal this week is a support in the back of clients who are uncertain about their municipality's policies. Household aid is covered by the new Wmo and the policy of the municipality must be based on objective and independent research into a clean and liveable house. Consultation with healthcare providers and client councils is not enough. The municipalities are now on the move, but I ask the State Secretary how he will ensure that municipalities comply with this ruling. And how is the local or regional ombud function? I had an interrupting debate with the D66 Group on this. If only we had regulated it in the law, as my group would have liked. It saves clients but also municipalities incredibly much time, money and frustration if they do not have to go to court but can refer their case to an Ombudsman. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State, because when it comes to a rooftop chapel, you can go to court, but when it comes to care and people who need care support, we just want to avoid that corridor to the judge all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u72	Thank you very much. We now have a very new, full public gallery, so I say it again: an AMvB is a General Measure of Governance and the Wmo is the Social Support Act. Now let's try not to talk in abbreviations here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u73	I share with the group of the Christian Union that it is terrible that it has had to come to this: a doubling of the amount of objections. I find the proposal for an Ombudsman interesting, but the Christian Union Group also sees that, given the law that the Christian Union has been in favour of, it was necessary to have a ruling in order to give that clarity. I used to call that law a legal swamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u74	As I said, I find it particularly sad when people have to go to a committee of objections and appeals or go to court to get the care and support they need. I want to prevent that at all times. Apparently, it was necessary. It's very sad that it was necessary. That is why I hope that local and regional ombudsmen will be abolished throughout the country, with ombudsmen and women, because that can really help people and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u75	Yes, that is true, but in the various statements of the Central Board of Appeal there are a number of practices which have arisen in municipalities and which are now said to be contrary to the Wmo. And then an ombudsman won't help you. Is the Christian Union group also so keen on the Secretary of State that she instructs him to find out where this practice is occurring and to adapt it? Otherwise, you will be standing with your Ombudsman, but municipal policy has not yet been adapted. And then you have nothing. Then they're just fine words. So would the Christian Union Group also like to focus on what the Secretary of State is about to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u76	The latter, of course, but I would like to comment on the observation that an ombudsman or ombud function would not be able to respond to legislation, regulations and so on. I think this is the case. An external ombud function can check municipal regulations against the law. That's my information. I'm not a lawyer. I also put this question to the Secretary of State. I think it would be very helpful if that position were to be created, because it can give asked and unsolicited advice to lectures from B and W and municipal councils, and because those people can help to prevent them from having to make a corridor to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u77	I also have to ask the Christian Union whether it does not regret its role in this law. Look at the results. People have been going to court for so long. More than 5,000 people have been fired from TSN without seeing their working conditions continued. And that's just the tip of the iceberg, because there's been a lot more layoffs. It got through thanks to the support of the five seats of the Christian Union. Is Mrs Dik-Faber proud of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u78	Let me say first of all that I particularly regret it when people lose their jobs. The Christian Union has agreed to the Social Support Act, because it has as an important starting point that we organise care close to people and that we look at what people need for their care and support. And that includes looking at what people can do themselves. If self-reliance is limited or not at issue, the government must, of course, be ready to ensure that people receive the care and support they need. That didn't always happen, because people had to go to court for that. I regret that it was necessary to go to court. There is now a clear statement from the Central Appeals Board. I don't want people to have to make that move again in the future. This means that municipalities will now have to implement this ruling. Let's hope we don't have to go to court in the future. If necessary, I would refer again to my point on the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman's role. I would very much like to see a form of dispute resolution somewhere, so that these difficult and often shady procedures can be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u79	I do not get an answer to my question as to whether the Christian Union regrets it, so I assume she does not regret it. This does, however, shed light on the contribution of the Christian Union. Through the D66 and the SGP, the Christian Union has made it possible for many care tasks to go to the municipalities, with a huge discount. If that discount had not taken place, there would not have been such a rigorous deletion. In order to make that discount possible, the municipal task of domestic care is not included in the law and therefore people had to go to court. We knew that when the law was passed, because then the lawsuit started. I think it is important to highlight here that it is a good thing that the Christian Union is now putting forward proposals, but that it is responsible for the debris we are seeing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u80	The Christian Union could not accept the proposals of this cabinet as it originally was. That is why we have said at a number of times in recent years that it is not possible to do so. We have provided additional resources, including 200 million for daily spending. Arie Slob and Mr Diederik Samsom of the PvdA Group have jointly tabled a proposal for the household aid allowance. Those proposals have not just been made. We supported the Wmo because we see that it is possible to organise care close to people. That was necessary, but it could also be more efficient, so municipalities can make smart links. At the same time, we have seen that the discounts were too heavy and that is why we have made that extra money available. We support the development to organise care close to people. In cases where this is not possible financially, the policy has been adjusted. This was done thanks to the commitment of the Christian Union, because the SP was not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u81	That makes sense, because the SP didn't want the whole cuts. Neither do we. The Christian Union has, of course, walked into this knowingly and knowingly. I have just heard the Christian Union refer again to that dogma of self-reliance; 'care close to the citizen' is such a thing. Yesterday we received a report from the Social and Cultural Planning Agency in which this dogma linea recta was thrown into the trash. How can the Christian Union continue to use that same dogma today? Doesn't the Christian Union read newspapers or reports? Doesn't she come to the conclusion that she was wrong? It is the fault of the Christian Union that all these people are in misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u82	It is good to hear that the PVV Group is wondering if I read the newspapers. I don't need encouragement, Mrs. Agema. I have, of course, also read that report and we are going to debate it. I have indicated in my contribution that we are looking at people's self-reliance, but we also see very clearly that there are people who are limited or not self-reliant. Where that is the issue and people cannot get support from their own network, the government needs to step up. I would also like to say something else about this. We are in debate with the Secretary of State today, but we cannot just call him to account. I'm also looking at our society. What does it say about our society that not everyone in our country has a network? Isn't every human being supposed to be a fellow human being? I am concerned about the fact that there are people who have to say that they have no fellow human beings. We cannot change that by law, but I think this is a notion that should be addressed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u83	This is a blow to the face of all those Dutch who do take care of someone. There are 2.2 million carers and half a million overburdened carers. The inhabitants of this country have elected representatives of the people to settle matters in this parliament. The Christian Union says through Mrs Dik-Faber that the Secretary of State is not the only culprit in this story. That's right. If the Christian Union had voted against, there wouldn't have been that whole law. So when does the Christian Union withdraw its support? She may say that she has softened it, but there is still a saving of 280 million, this year alone, on domestic aid. Then you won't get away with self-reliance or all kinds of other dogmas. That's not gonna make it. When does the Christian Union withdraw its support?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u84	The Christian Union supports the movement made with the Social Support Act, namely that we are going to organise care close to people. It is precisely at municipal level that the municipal government is closest to people. It is possible to look closely at the care and support that people need, because their own network cannot provide it. If people are limited or not self-reliant, the government must be ready for them. That's what the Christian Union stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about the bankruptcy of the caremoloch TSN, an organisation that managed to employ almost a third of all home help within a few years with an aggressive takeover strategy. In doing so, she did not hesitate to tender for tenders at very low and often too low rates. Until it went wrong in March and a bankruptcy turned out to be inevitable. In recent months, for many people receiving household help from TSN and the employees of TSN, a period of great uncertainty. You'll only be home help and wonder if you can keep your job or at which other home care organisation you'll be employed. You're gonna need help and wonder if you're gonna get it. That uncertainty was a tragedy for a lot of people. It is therefore a good thing that we are debating this. This debate must take place not only here, in the Chamber, but above all in all municipal councils, because the municipalities are responsible for purchasing and regulating domestic aid. I know that this debate is being held in many municipal councils in the Netherlands. In the past few months, the Labour Party has been leading the way for people who need domestic help to continue to receive them. We didn't want a hole in the relief system. In addition, she wanted the existing couples of home help and client and the existing working conditions to be maintained as far as possible. The Labour Party, together with the SP, has previously tabled a motion for this. Recently, incredibly much effort has been put by the municipalities, the home helpers, other home care providers and the Secretary of State in arranging for continued aid. Sometimes trade union actions were needed and sometimes the Secretary of State had to encourage the municipalities, but frankly I think it is quite good that in such a short and hectic period the domestic aid continued and in many cases the existing couples were maintained. Although the bankruptcy of TSN is a tragedy for all concerned, TSN has also become the symbol of what we do not want in the care: a moloch with its overhead. You can now also see room for alternatives: smaller, less overhead and closer to people. I am thinking of Jos de Blok's Family Help Foundation, which offers plenty of space for home help and clients with small self-directing teams. I am also thinking of the smaller, regionally rooted healthcare providers who have taken over many home help. Furthermore, I am thinking of the employees' cooperatives that are now emerging as in Apeldoorn: brave home helpers manage it themselves without managers and expensive offices. These are all examples of how it can be done. In fact, how it should be. How will the Secretary of State stimulate this new movement and obstacles Mrs Bergkamp has already referred to the motion that has been tabled on this subject, so that such initiatives can really get off the ground? Yesterday, the Central Board of Appeal made the important statement that domestic aid does not have a standard approach. The Labour Party welcomes that statement; it has always advocated tailor-made work. That's also the core of the Wmo. A personal interview should identify where people need help. It is a good thing that the judge confirmed that yesterday, and that the municipalities that did not provide enough help, have turned a blind eye to it. How does the Secretary of State ensure that this ruling becomes practice in all municipalities? Local authorities will need to be more aware of the need to pay real rates. Easy calls for tenders on price alone may be profitable in the short term, but only loss in the longer term. Last year a historic agreement was reached between the trade unions, the municipalities and the Secretary of State on the future of domestic aid. Extra money will be invested in home care and there will be a General Measure of Management to achieve decent purchasing of care. It stipulates that not only the lowest price should be bought in, but also quality should be guaranteed, collective agreements respected and working conditions respected. Actually, it makes sense. What about this AMvB? I read that some municipalities are quite sputtering. Is the AMvB also ready in time for the purchase recess from 2017? I'm rounding up. I hope that with the bankruptcy of TSN we can also say goodbye to a symbol of how we should not, how we should not organise care. I hope that we will allow for small-scale initiatives and home help. Municipalities understand that a fair price must be paid for this and that a good conversation with people is needed if help is to be needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u86	Mr Van Dijk and I have received an amendment from the Wmo concerning the taking over of employees at the time when a home care provider no longer provides certain care and another is going to do so. Now we see that with the current Wmo there are situations in which people lose up to 15% in salary. I mentioned the example of €300 per month in a full-time employment relationship. That wasn't the intention of our amendment, was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u87	I can be very brief about that: no, that was certainly not the intention of our amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u88	Does Mr Van Dijk therefore think that, if it is possible with this provision of law that people are going down so much, we should fix the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u89	The PvdA has always said that if the law needs to be amended because things happen in practice that we don't want to do, we will. In this case, however, I still doubt whether it is the law that is not good, or whether the implementation is not going well. If the implementation is not good, we must ensure that it gets better and the law must be strengthened. Our amendment also refers to the acquisition of care when another provider does so after a call for tenders. We're also in a bankruptcy situation now. So I should take a closer look at that. In previous debates on this subject in particular, I have said that, if it is necessary to tighten up, take the General Measure of Governance that is to come, my party will certainly not run away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u90	Then Mrs Keijzer was with the CDA. Yeah, I've been paying attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I sat down for a while, but here I am again. I have just heard Mr Van Dijk say that the Labour Party does not run away from it if something has to change in policy. This whole discussion about bankruptcy in home care is, of course, not new. The reason for all this is that too low tariffs are contracted. Of course, that's what it starts with. Now I have filed several motions, including on December 17, 2015. If it had been adopted, the Chamber would have asked the government to use the instruments laid down in the law from today on. These are instruments that aim at good rates in home care. And what do you think, Mr. Chairman? The group of the PvdA was against it. Does the PvdA's group today go beyond just saying warm words and asking the Secretary of State to address the issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u92	The Labour Party voted against it because it is simply a bad motion. What the Labour Party wants is not a study of rates, according to the standard motion that Mrs Keijzer puts forward every time. The Labour Party wants something to happen. Hence also the General Measure of Governance. I've been calling on the Secretary of State to finally make it for months. There's gonna be one. Hence my question when it will come into effect and when it will come into effect. Municipalities are therefore forced to apply fair rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u93	Man, man, man. You're not listening very well. This motion was about something else, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u94	Let's be a little polite. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u95	You're a bad listener, Mr. Chairman. At least, in this case Mr Van Dijk. This motion was not about an investigation into tariffs. This motion called on the government to use the legal possibilities to ensure that the policy is properly implemented at municipal level: "calls on the government to deploy these instruments from today on, and moves to the order of the day." Then the PvdA voted against. Will it therefore continue to speak with warm words today and ask the Secretary of State to speak, as I have seen Mr Van Dijk do in recent years? Or is the PvdA really coming to something today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u96	However, I am surprised by Mrs Keijzer's contribution. It was Mrs Keijzer who, when a motion on freedom of policy for municipalities was tabled by, in my opinion, Mr Van 't Wout and Mrs Bergkamp, in an explanation of vote, indicated that she was in favour of maximum policy freedom for municipalities. Municipalities knew better than the Empire how business should be carried out. I believe that was the spirit of the text. In recent years, I have always pointed out to this Secretary of State: if things go wrong, intervene, and if things go wrong with the purchase of the tariffs, create a General Measure of Management. Well, the latter is being made. I assume that, despite her earlier call for maximum policy freedom, Mrs Keijzer also supports the creation of such an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u97	That's not interesting at all. This motion and what we are discussing today are about the law. It is not about freedom of policy but about whether municipalities comply with the law and whether that law is clear enough. I conclude that the answer to my question as to whether the PvdA group is really going to do something today is unfortunately no. I regret that, because we need the PvdA group for a majority. Unfortunately, it is still only words today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u98	I am sorry that Mrs Keijzer listens so badly. My assignment, request to the Secretary of State, is: how do you arrange for such a ruling made yesterday by the Central Board of Appeal to be practiced? How many calls do you want, Mrs Keijzer, so that whatever the law has to do will eventually happen in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u99	I still admire the optimistic defense by the PvdA spokesperson, Mr Van Dijk, of the mess in the country. We're saying goodbye to TSN. 5,000 employees have said goodbye to their legal certainty and all their clients have said goodbye to their familiar faces. That's not something to celebrate. That's something to be sad about. When it comes to customization and enforcement of the law, the PvdA cannot ignore the fact that it is precisely the law that led to the bankruptcy of TSN and the removal of domestic care in municipalities, which in turn led to all these court cases. My question is this. Does the PvdA agree that on 1 May last there were two municipalities in our country, namely Hollands Kroon and Schagen, who said: no, we do not need to offer domestic care under the law? Does Mr Van Dijk think that this is a problem in the law or a problem in those municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u100	First the question if I'm okay with that: no. Is it a problem in the law? No, because yesterday the Central Board of Appeal stated that 'I am saying it out of my mind' the legislator does not seek any other claim in the new WMO compared to the old one and that, therefore, domestic aid is simply part of it. That is what I have always advocated in recent years. In fact, that is what the Secretary of State has always advocated in recent years. In the run-up to these statements, too, he has always said: if there is any other statement, know what I am in; I think that domestic aid is part of the Wmo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u101	I therefore find it really inexplicable for the PvdA to allow its own Secretary of State simply to have these municipalities abolish domestic care. Say it but don't do it, that's not how we got married in this parliament. That's really true. That's just lying. If you say that domestic care is part of this and then you don't arrange for Schagen and Hollands Kroon to comply with that law, then you sell something you don't do. Not only does that to the Secretary of State, but so does the PvdA here. Or you can make sure that municipalities cannot abolish household care and so you arrange that the law states that household care is part of it. Or you say: I don't really care, let everyone fight it out in court and then we hope for the best. Is the PvdA prepared to urge the Secretary of State to amend the law and simply make domestic care part of it, so that no one has to go to court about the interpretation of the law but it's just in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u102	I find this really incomprehensiblely big words from Mrs Leijten. Yesterday, the judge said that domestic aid is part of the Wmo. That is what the Secretary of State said, and that is what I repeat. My appeal, like everyone else in the Chamber, was: Secretary of State, arrange this well with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u103	And last May, nineteen days ago, there were two municipalities that said, "House-to-house care? Fuck you." They have even done it to send the people who received household care a cleaning cloth: now you can do it yourself again. That's what happens. You're going to celebrate with optimism that the judge has given a ruling. You've delivered a bad law! That is what I say to the Secretary of State, and that is what the Labour Party should say to the Secretary of State. What are you doing with a bad law? You're improving it. Will the Labour Party, the State Secretary's Party, support a motion from the SP in a moment that says that there must be an improvement in the law so that no one has to go to court anymore? If you then pass the law, it is clear that household care is a task of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u104	I'm not celebrating anything. My appeal to the Secretary of State is: improve the practice. That's good for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u105	I support Mrs Leijten's speech, in which she says that we are simply being fooled. We're getting screwed right in front of us. Mr Van Dijk says here that he has always said that domestic aid was part of the Wmo, that he has always said that it cannot be that municipalities have simply stopped using domestic aid or reduced it, and that the Secretary of State has said so all along. The Secretary of State indeed said it yesterday in his response. He wrote that the statements are in line with the law and its purpose. At that point we are being tricked in front of us, because a year ago the Secretary of State wrote to the Chamber that he would intervene. He wrote that this was not necessary to date, because municipalities would still bring the implementation within the legal frameworks. You lie and you cheat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u106	Is that how it's supposed to be now? Is that really necessary? You can also make your sharp point without...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u107	I'm here to provide proof of my words...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u108	I'm gonna talk a little bit. You can also argue very strongly without accusing people of lies, can't you? I mean, it could all be a little bit less, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u109	We stand here for two or three years debating the sharpest part of the cut...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u110	...and I'm asking you to do that a little bit more business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u111	... and we get a letter from the Secretary of State yesterday saying simply the opposite of what he said in an earlier letter, a year earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u112	I'm asking you to keep the discussion a bit more businesslike. It's okay to be sharp, but keep it a little businesslike.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u113	I think after two and a half years, it's a little done with that trickery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u114	I've asked you to do it. If you don't listen to it, there's nothing else I can do about it. I call Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u115	I'm done with terms like "betrayed" and "lie" by Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr President, I would like to put forward two factual letters, including a factual letter from yesterday's Secretary of State. You did not intervene when my colleague in the same words...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u117	I have listened very carefully and very nicely recorded the ascending degrees. Moreover, it is my right to ask you to moderate somewhat. It is your right to do nothing about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u118	Yes, because it's also my right to bring out facts from letters. We're being screwed, Mr. Chairman! You should take that up as chairman. I made it clear that yesterday's letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u119	What is your question to Mr Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u120	The actual question concerns yesterday's letter from the Secretary of State. It states that his statements are in line with the law and its purpose. That's what Mr Van Dijk says here. Mr Van Dijk has even said this all year round over the past two and a half years. I'm referring to the letter from a year ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u121	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u122	... in which the Secretary of State writes that it has not so far proved necessary and that municipalities still bring the implementation within the legal frameworks. I am not allowed to use the President's word 'betray', but may I ask Mr Van Dijk what he would call it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u123	In recent years, I think we have simply shared that domestic aid is part of the Social Support Act. That was also the reason why, in 2014, I say that out of my mind; first it was 2013 and later 2014 that put a lot of money into the agreement to ease the austerity and keep day-to-day spending and domestic aid up to date. We don't do that because we think, "Well, what should we do with it?" We do this because municipalities need real money for the tasks they ultimately have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u124	Your last interruption, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u125	It's not "we," it's a small part of the House of Representatives that supported all of that. The rest didn't. I asked Mr Van Dijk what he would call it. I referred to it as "deception," on which the President spoke, but what would Mr Van Dijk call it? The Secretary of State and himself now say that the statements are in line with the law and its purpose. The Secretary of State didn't respond a year ago to all those municipalities that went wrong. He said that until now this has not been necessary and that municipalities are still implementing it within the legal framework. What would Mr Van Dijk call that? If I cannot say 'betray', I ask Mr Van Dijk what he would call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u126	I wouldn't call it "betray," I'd just look at the practice. We are indeed seeing a number of things go wrong. The judge's made a hell of a judgment about that. The task is to improve the practice in the end. That's what's good for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u127	Before the debate there was a meeting with a number of TSN staff. The Labour Party was also present. Among other things, the issue was that money for care should remain available for care. I was wondering if the Labour Party also thinks that the care money that is now left with municipalities seems a lot, but on the whole it shouldn't even be so much available for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u128	I think that should be available for the care. It is money that is meant for care and that most municipalities also spend on care. I think we had a rather complicated discussion on this in 2014. In the end, VVD and D66 tabled a motion, supported by many parties, including mine, to give municipalities more room to spend budgets. Sometimes you have combinations of care money and culture and sports. Existing Wmo tasks were not part of that fence around the social domain. It would create huge administrative burdens for municipalities and the Empire. Anything overlooking it seems to be worse than the disease at times. I call on the local authorities, when they see the bottlenecks and opportunities, to spend the money to help the people, to be able to deliver real customization. So my plea is equivalent to GroenLinks' plea to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u129	I imagine that when you have a shortage of welfare or youth care, you want to spend the money within the social domain. There are municipalities that do that, but there are also municipalities that don't do it. Is Mr Van Dijk's appeal also an appeal to the Secretary of State to consult with municipalities that have announced in spring notes that they are going to spend the money on other things, such as roundabouts or new town halls, and to ensure that the money remains available for the social domain at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u130	I find this complicated. When we talk about the tasks of domestic aid, it is not what is involved in the new decentralisations to municipalities. No, these tasks have been with the municipalities since 2007. After several years of target payment, the money has become part of the Municipal Fund. So saving household help money is not done with a fence around the social domain. We must also ensure that we do not end up in a very bureaucratic situation. At first I was very much in favour of that famous fence around the social domain, but in the end it led to too many bureaucratic and practical objections. It could also stand in the way of innovation, so that my group finally voted in favour of the motion of VVD and D66 to give municipalities room for customization and to really shape the slippage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u131	I'm gonna keep going on this subject. In the Van 't Wout/Bergkamp motion of 13 June 2013, the government is asked to transfer the funds for municipalities for the tasks in the social domain without internal divisions and, after a transitional period, without restrictions within the Gemeentefonds. That's the motion the PvdA supported. GroenLinks and the CDA also supported the motion. I'm just saying that for the sake of clarity. Does Mr Van Dijk still support this motion? I think so, but I'd like to hear a yes or a no. This has to do with the confidence we have in municipalities when it comes to decentralised tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u132	That's a good question. Yeah, I'm still in favour of that. In the answer I just gave to Mrs Voortman's question, I was not at first in favour of that motion. Mrs Bergkamp may remember that. However, in order to overcome bureaucratic obstacles and for reasons of substance, I have been persuaded by D66 and VVD that it is wise to make innovation possible. Through work visits I have seen it: the combination of sport and culture, old Wmo tasks, new Wmo tasks, within the social domain, take the margins off. It is wise to give the room for this innovation. So once again, yes, I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u133	That is a clear story from Mr Van Dijk. He still supports the motion which was then supported by several parties, including GroenLinks. I think it is important that the city council should also have a role in having it accounted for, possibly with a local accounting office, on which that money has been spent. That discussion should, of course, take place there. I think Mr Van Dijk agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u134	Yes, I very much agree with Mrs Bergkamp. I have also said in my speech that it is a good thing that we are debating it now in the Chamber, but that this discussion should, of course, take place particularly in all the municipal councils. I know it happens in a lot of places. That is good, because with these tasks these municipal councils also have the responsibility of asking their own alderman or their own local healthcare providers: how do we deal with the couples, how do we deal with working conditions? This debate must take place not only here, but above all in municipal councils. We agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u135	Mrs Leijten, you have already spoken in detail. You started this round of interruptions. I wonder if you have anything new.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u136	Yes, I was wondering if Mr Van Dijk could respond to the old article 4 in the Wmo and the new article 4 in the Wmo. These are clearly different in terms of whether domestic care is included or not. On that basis, and on the basis of the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal, does he not think it is a good idea to simply restore the old Article 4, so that municipalities such as Schagen and Hollands Kroon can not even do what they are doing now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u137	With the current law, on which the Central Board of Appeal has ruled that it has the same intention as the previous Wmo, we have a legal framework. That's right. Municipalities just have to do it right. I don't know what an article 4, new, old or whatever, adds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u138	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u139	So the Labour Party now says to all residents of Schagen and Hollands Kroon: go to court, we don't change the law. What poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u140	Mrs Leijten is having trouble listening. I said that there was a clear statement and that there was a clear legal framework. My appeal to the Secretary of State is to make sure that there is not only a legal framework, but that in practice it is just right and proper. It doesn't matter if that law is old or new. The judge found that there's actually not that much difference. I think we all made that call in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u141	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the Central Appeals Board ruled. The Supreme Administrative Court has ruled that domestic aid is covered by the Social Support Act and is therefore a task of municipalities. Claims on domestic aid issued for 2015 remain valid. In addition, there must be an independent and objective examination to determine the aid question. The municipality may therefore no longer be satisfied with a general provision in advance, but must offer tailor-made solutions if necessary for self-reliance. That will be the case in many cases, because that much is not to be expected from the increased call for self-reliance, according to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau yesterday. Moreover, in many cases there is no social network to assist. It is sad that a lawsuit was needed, but the verdict was the best news that 50PLUS has heard since the introduction of the Wmo. This confirms that this law does not provide a sufficient framework. Too much policy freedom, an unclear law and a high cut have led to arbitrariness among municipalities or to legal inequality. It is a law with great consequences and 50PLUS was against the law for that reason. But the key question is what is the Secretary of State going to do with this ruling? Has he spoken to the Dutch Association of Municipalities or is he prepared to do so? In what way is he going to add more framework to the Wmo? Is he gonna change the law? Does he have an idea of the financial, organisational and policy implications of this ruling? I'm asking because people keep the number of hours of help granted under the old Wmo. This can lead to many people getting their help back and I sincerely hope that many people will also get their jobs. This ruling has enormous consequences for municipalities, healthcare organisations, clients and employees. Municipalities may have to re-assess many aid questions. This could lead to more aid being needed. How is the Secretary of State going to keep the municipalities to the verdict? In the view of 50PLUS, trust in municipalities alone is not enough. How will all this be streamlined and financed and in what time? It only succeeds if he is willing to take active control, coordinate and not wait and see if things are going well. I would like a reply, because the letter is not entirely clear about that. Now for the bankruptcy of TSN. Especially for the chairman I looked it up: TSN stands for Home Care Service Netherlands. That has become the bankruptcy of the entire care of the elderly. After all, the government's policy has contributed to an environment in which healthcare organisations go bankrupt. Even though many things have gone wrong at TSN, a transition from care tasks as domestic help to municipalities with a substantial budget reduction, but without bottom in the rates, could not go smoothly. 50PLUS has always been against this. And now TSN has fallen over, not alone, but with all the consequences of that. All clients would retain their help, according to the Secretary of State in his letter. But can he confirm once again that this is actually the case? This is important for all the people here in the public gallery and for all the people who are following this debate at home and are also dealing with this situation. It is deeply sad that a number of TSN employees have lost their jobs, completely out of their debt. What can be done for them? Many employees have also moved to another organisation, but not against the same working conditions. Surely that is contrary to the collective agreement which has been declared generally binding? You can't just do that, can you? How many people are we talking about? Finally, I would like to thank all the healthcare workers who, despite everything, do their work with inspiration, from the bottom of my heart. I would also like to wish those who no longer have work all the strength and strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u142	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I say to the people in the public gallery, who are following the debate with extra interest, that the answer from the Secretary of State will, I believe, start at about 15.45 p.m. at 16.00 p.m. I would now like to suspend the sitting until 2.30 p.m., but I see that Mrs Agema has something to say or to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u143	Mr President, I do not want to take immediate advantage of the personal fact, but I would like to correct Mrs Keijzer for the Acts. She accused me of having tabled 23 or 26 motions of censure. That is factually incorrect, because the correct number is zero. I don't think that's much for someone who's been in the Chamber for nearly ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u144	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u145	Then exactly, Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the motion of censure of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-9.u146	I should read that back and I can, because that too is registered.
