ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	We have come to the answer in the first term of the budget for Health, Welfare and Sport (34550-XVI). I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	So we received a package last night. You can also read it electronically, in which many answers to the questions asked are "on paper." Perhaps this will avoid duplication in the debate. I understand the rulers will answer in blocks. And perhaps it would be useful for Members to listen, because I would like to suggest that they interrupt at the end of the blocks. That's why they're getting space. However, I do not completely kill the debate. If anyone says that the world is really going to end if he or she can't commit that one interruption, then I'll allow it. But then it must be pretty damn important. So the members get the space, but it's the most convenient way to structure it this way. I would now like to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. We answered all the questions that were asked last night. It was a little too short a time last night to provide a careful response to the notes we received. We will give a written response to those notes. Let us cut this short in advance, so that it is clear. The amendments were also responded to in the letter of amendment. One amendment has been complied with. I will respond orally to that later. I have three blocks: the first is the introduction, the second is the cover and the third is what is currently in full swing and the third is what remains to be done in this cabinet period. Care is incredibly important in a human life. Care must be well regulated, affordable and accessible. No one needs inaccessible top-of-the-line care. It's got to be en-and. I listened to the contributions yesterday. There have been very interesting contributions, contributions that have shown a lot of positive things, but there have also been a number of contributions that have outlined a picture of us standing on the edge of the abyss, as if our health care is one big valley of tears and is almost at the level of a third world country. After six years, I might have to get used to it, but it doesn't get used to it. It is, in fact, a lack of recognition of the achievements of health care, a lack of recognition of all these new initiatives, which are full of positive energy, and a lack of recognition of the people working in our health care. They see here an image in which they do not recognize themselves at all. Care is not a tear valley, but of course no paradise on earth. It goes very well in healthcare, but on parts there are also concerns and we are working hard to improve. People give their own GP an 8. 82% of people are satisfied with their own insurance company. However, I can understand that people are concerned about care as a whole. Every day we see on TV, in the newspapers and on social media that not everything goes well. Incidents are sometimes poignant, sometimes only annoying, but always undesirable. However, they are never entirely preventable. More than 1 million people work in healthcare. They are committed to their patients with heart and soul, but it remains human work. Fortunately, there is more openness about incidents. Doctors are becoming more vulnerable, more and more likely to engage in dialogue with patients if something has gone wrong. And that's good. I'd like to praise them for that. Because if we're not open about mistakes, then we're not learning from them either. That's why we say, even in doubt, you report calamities. I understand that every incident, every calamity, is every bottleneck news. Good news is not news, but it does create a distorted image and we see little of all the beautiful things in the care. Fortunately, we see them when we go to work; the Members of Parliament often do so. Then we see inspiring developments. In the first term, I have heard a lot of facts-free statements. That doesn't get used to either. The basic package is not stripped, but grows year by year with new treatments, new medicines, new techniques. The premium does not go through the roof, but is similar in 2016 to that in 2011. For low-income people, the premium and own risk are largely compensated by the care allowance. A low-income person pays less to care than during the health insurance scheme ten years ago. In addition, there are often schemes at local level that help people to better bear care costs, including their own risk. We have no risk selection: everyone is entitled to the same good care. We have succeeded in curbing the growth of costs. For years, care grew harder than the economy, now it's even. That means something, that's more than numbers. It means that we can keep our concerns on a sustainable basis and thus be accessible to everyone in the context of a consistent policy. The health gap between people on high and low incomes has not increased, but decreased. The difference in life expectancy has remained the same. In health care, employees are more satisfied than in other sectors. The absenteeism has fallen compared to the 1990s and the beginning of this century. There is a very high professional pride in the care, namely 90%. This goes hand in hand with a higher workload, as is clearly indicated in the studies we are doing. That is therefore an important point of attention. Those are the facts. The growth in the number of obese people is stabilizing. The number of smokers goes down. Young people start drinking later. Life expectancy is growing steadily for low and high incomes. The focus in care is increasingly shifting towards increasing quality, which goes hand in hand with cost savings. The shift in high-complex care given by teams with a lot of experience has been used, leading to decreasing mortality rates in truly complex interventions, not in non-complex interventions. The relocation of care to the neighborhood has started and the patient's position has never been so strong. I'm coming to the cover. People don't think in first-line or second-line care. At least I never hear my mom talk about it. People just want care and guidance that suits them, close as they can, preferably at home, so that their lives are as cheap as possible. Of course, sometimes it is inevitable to go to the hospital for complex care or surgery. But a lot of care can be organized from the hospital close to people: from the waiting room to the living room. The cover's in full swing. The examples are everywhere. I mention the dermatologist who came to the conclusion that 80% of his patients do not belong in the hospital, but in the general practitioner. He said: I haven't met a colleague who sees it differently, except one. He said it was 95%. This dermatologist has started his own work. 6,000 GPs can now have a dermatologist look online at a consultation. There'll be a diagnosis within five hours. 75% of the patients don't have to go to the hospital. That's nice for the patient and also 40% cheaper. 200,000 people with diabetes can go to the optometrist around the corner if they have eye problems. The specialist is watching online. This results in 96% fewer referrals to the hospital. 3,000 healthcare professionals across the country and from all kinds of disciplines are in Parkinson's Net, so that patients get the very best care, in conjunction and as close to home as possible. This will be further improved thanks to the collaboration of this network with the Radboudumc and a company specialising in data research. The goal: even more customization for people with Parkinson's disease. In hospitals, too, care is becoming more personal: do not come back four times for four investigations, because these four investigations are planned in succession. There's fresh coffee. The children's wards are no longer bare and sterile, but warm and colourful with plenty of space for the parents. It hasn't been that long since this was different. We'll forget soon! The time when the doctor ordered what had to happen, the one-size-fits-all, is almost behind us but not quite yet. Doctor and patient increasingly decide what the best treatment is, because that depends on so much more than just diagnosis. The chance of healing versus side effects and risks of treatment requires a different, very personal consideration from everyone, even in very serious diseases. One is willing to endure severe side effects for a few weeks, because she has young children and then counts every day, and the other may make a different assessment. But even with depression, a hernia or childbirth, there are always choices to make because everyone is different. That choice must indeed be made, if possible, with medical devices. For that, people need understandable information. On ChooseBetter, the most important quality data can now be found for the 45 most common diseases. The Patient Federation Netherlands has choice aids for 25 conditions. Smart technology enables personal guidance in these choices, such as contextMe. This was developed by an innovator with six hospitals and an independent treatment centre. It's a digital environment where you can get live and personal information from healthcare professionals about your treatment so you can really make up for your treatment choices. This morning we all saw on the news that the pharmacists are also taking a step by introducing a viewing shutter. You will then get an explanation of the effects and side effects of a medicine by means of short animation videos. How should you take it and how should you not take it? 100 pharmacies start for 95% of all medicines with these shutters. This is extremely important for people for whom a package leaflet is simply complicated or annoying. That actually applies to all of us; I'm only getting half out myself. Due to the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act, the patient is less vulnerable and less vulnerable to a large hospital or a large insurer. As a result, there is now a compulsory complaint officer in each institution and an independent dispute body and everyone is entitled to information on the quality of treatment, even if mistakes are made. A number of insurers, CZ, VGZ and the Silver Cross, work together with doctors and patients on renewal to improve the conversation between doctor and patient. There is a listening obligation for the doctor and a check that everything is clear. The visit is also prepared with a questionnaire, so that you don't walk out of the office with the feeling that you didn't ask what you wanted to ask or that you didn't understand the answers. Last year I indicated that instead of discussing the system, we would rather start working on improvements in practice. The examples I mention are all from practice, as I experience them myself when I am on a job visit. It is experiences that many Dutch people experience and examples that show that care adapts more and more to people rather than to the other way around. And this is just the beginning! People with good ideas are pushing. We also noticed this during the eHealth Week last June, where 120 organisations showed their ideas for better care to people. That wasn't on offer. There were no organisations that said: you don't need it, but look what beautiful products I have. No, that's where the patients were leading. They have indicated on stage what they need. They were also leading the program. We will see that again, too, and we can already see that already in the applications for the national eHealth Week, which we are organising in January. After major changes, of course, it takes time for everyone to know exactly the way, before everyone knows what to do, who to call and who to be with. We've deployed our field teams to do that. It's their job to tie people back together so that people can find each other. We very much like this approach to concrete improvements and tailor-made work, and we continue to do so. All these beautiful developments show how it can be done and that gives energy. Does that mean that all the problems have been solved? Of course not. It can always be better. In fact, it has to be better sometimes. Business isn't good either. We have an ambitious agenda for the coming months to tackle these problems. I come to the following heading: what are we going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	I note that there are no interruptions so far. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	One thing is for sure: once a health minister falls behind, the costs increase and the accessibility, quality and affordability of care are once again at risk. Care is something we must always work on. The question of care continues to grow. In 2030, one in four Dutch is over 65 years of age and the number of 80-plussers doubles to 4.2 million. There's more and more. Technological developments are continuing. Older people continue to be fit longer and longer, even with chronic disorders. That's great. 80% of the 80-plussers already live at home. The changes introduced by this cabinet were designed to keep care accessible and affordable in the light of these developments and to strengthen the patient's position in health care. Many people, institutions and organisations are working on this mission, including hospitals, nurses, doctors and mental health professionals, as well as patient organisations and health insurance companies. The scenarios of the Central Planning Bureau also show that sensible policies remain necessary regardless of the healthcare system we have and whatever the cabinet that sits here. Whoever whips that away or suggests that care is free, makes an expensive mistake. According to the Central Planning Office, real expenditure will increase again by 3.2% a year without new measures from a subsequent cabinet. That's EUR 9 billion over a cabinet period. The message of another CPB report from two weeks ago was that this growth might lead to an over-reliance on solidarity between young and old, healthy and ill, and rich and poor. According to the CPB, you could absorb this by raising your own risk by, for example, €1,000 in 2040, or by introducing a higher premium for the elderly and a levy according to capacity. I would not opt for these measures, because they only deal with the burden-sharing and the division between groups of people. These solutions and measures ignore the huge gains in quality and cost that we can still make by continuing the chosen path, by organising care smarter, more efficient and patient-friendly in networks around the patient. In my opinion, this substantive solution is much more important. We are at the beginning of what is possible and we will therefore continue this agenda in the near future. I'll be on our eHealth agenda. New technology isn't a panacea for everything, but it's not something special either. It must be part of the care, a component that is delivered just as naturally as traditional care. If we use technology selectively and smartly, it will help us greatly to make care better, cheaper and patient-friendly. I have already mentioned a number of fine examples, but there are many more, including in mental health care. In Eindhoven, for example, after a referral from the GP, people can get started immediately with an online module, so they don't have to wait for an intake. But I do wonder, as with many fine examples, why we do not do this everywhere. Speeding up and making it available to everyone, that's what it's all about. This requires cooperation. We gain good experiences with the health deals, for example to help people with cancer with all the difficult decisions they have to make on their way. Together with patient organisations, companies, hospitals, health insurance companies, doctors and scientists, we are going to provide very good digital decision-making support in this area. We work together with StartupDelta and the Ministry of Economic Affairs on the FastTrack eHealth initiative. I'm sorry, chairman, but somehow everything goes in English when we're talking about eHealth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	That's where you're at!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	That's true. So we are even going to an acceleration initiative; that sounds different! We offer companies with good ideas, expertise and temporary financial support. That's what we're gonna do. In order to give patients quicker access to their own hospital data, we have released EUR 105 million over the next three years. This allows patients to direct their own files, choose who they share that information with and add their own measurements. We are also figuring out how to help people with eHealth to live healthier lives, just people you don't normally reach so easily, people who are actually a little suspicious of the government that's waving their fingers and saying they shouldn't and shouldn't. It's just those people you can better reach from the thought that healthy life is fun. Direct feedback, game elements, support at the moment you need it! We need to look into that much more closely to see what works and what doesn't. So we are working hard on the eHealth agenda, I say to Mrs Dijkstra, among others. Secondly, I come to the shift from care to the neighborhood and the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	Now suddenly there are world-shattering and world-enhancing interruptions, but the minister wasn't finished with her block. Isn't that what we agreed on? Let's just do that. We'll have the minister finish her block first. Then you will have the opportunity to ask a question, Mrs Bouwmeester. That's just how we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	I do have a to-do list in this cube. So I'm going to move on to another topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	I know what happens next. Then it gets out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	But you're there!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	There will be another chairman, so that doesn't matter anymore! No, but make sure we don't waste an incredible amount of time doing it inefficiently. Mrs. Bouwmeester, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you for the good efforts to steer this debate. I have heard the Minister say very important things about eHealth and innovation. It's not just a thing or a toy. It's a new way to steer longer to be healthy with your own direction. A lot of good examples have come along, also in the answer, but I still hear very often that people with a good idea when they switch against the system in which everything works as it works. They don't always get the health insurance company. It's gonna get stuck. I know the Minister shares this annoyance. What answer do we have for those people who have good ideas and are stuck?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u14	That's why we started a program. You come across good ideas and wonder why we don't do this all over the Netherlands. Implementation is a problem. It's not about super high-tech at all. Sometimes it's very simple solutions that you could easily apply; officials call that "rolling out." That's why we started a program that focuses on low tech high impact, on things that you can do quite easily and that have a big impact. We are not focusing on what we can do with huge pieces of art in 2040, but on what we can already do and how we can implement it widely. The million dollar question is: how do you make sure we apply the good things widely?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u15	We totally agree on this, but I am still dealing with those six doctors under my arm who have all had such a small, good initiative for years that is about the good conversation and understandable information. They do not get through it, because the profession is not yet involved, the system works differently or the health insurance company first wants a business case. Where can I "park" or take these people to make sure that what is going to happen is what the Minister's intention and my intention is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u16	I do not know if it is all doctors, but some of the doctors mentioned earlier by Mrs Bouwmeester, who are indeed doing very good things, are in contact with our ministry and are now on the routes I describe. They are satisfied with that, too. We did, of course, test that before this debate began. Since Mrs Bouwmeester often asks, I wanted to test that. They are satisfied with what is happening at the moment. I hope that will remain so and that we will actually be able to make those successes. We're talking to them. I do not know if it is all six, but at least it is the doctors that Mrs Bouwmeester has delivered to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mrs. Bergkamp. I think there is an opening, but very briefly, Mrs Bouwmeester.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u18	I think there's been a misconception, but let me put these people in contact with your people one more time. Then we'll assume it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u19	That was indeed the opening I wanted to hear. Then I'll go straight to Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u20	I think it's always good that when people get stuck, they get in touch with us. With the practical approach, we want to detach these things in practice. They are very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u21	The third attempt, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u22	Sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u23	It's just nice that you're still answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u24	It's about finding solutions with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u25	That's what we're always for. The Minister does a lot of beautiful things. We can also read that in the reply. My colleague, Mr Dijkstra, has asked about these ambitious objectives. The Minister previously indicated that caregivers should be available 24/7 and that 80% of chronically ill patients should have access to medical data such as test results and medication information. My colleague, Mr Dijkstra, would very much like to know what is going on with these objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u26	Nictiz reports on this every year and also measures where we stand with these objectives. I sent that to the room. I did say that we are not satisfied because it is too slow. That is precisely why we have allocated extra money and started a few big programmes. It is a common objective, because, of course, this goes right through all the lines and divisions. We have said together: it is simply not fast enough, this can really be much faster. That is why we have released the EUR 105 million. If you want to put your measurements in your file yourself and you want to look at your own file, it's your file, but there are some misunderstandings about this file. There are all kinds of hiccups and obstacles; hence we are launching a major acceleration program with all general hospitals to achieve this and to actually achieve that goal in five years' time. At the current rate, we're going too slow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u27	It is good to hear that the Minister still has the same ambitious objectives. It would be nice if, in the meantime, she could report on how it stands so that the Chamber can follow that. I have another question about the accessibility of healthcare providers. My college Dijkstra has also often said: there are many people who work, but most of the general practitioners are still only accessible between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. So what are the bottlenecks? Why can't we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u28	That's tricky. I've been talking to general practitioners about that, too. There are general practitioners who say they started an evening meeting, but after six months they pulled the plug, because it's not in people's system. So it is not all unwillingness of general practitioners. There are general practitioners who have tried. I think it also depends very much on where you live, what your patient population is and when it has time or no. Just by applying eHealth you can work more separately from time and place. When you look at what happens at that point, you see that some things go really well, but that other things really go too slowly. It is not for nothing that I have spent so much time in the introduction to this. We have set up a whole department for this, with people who are working, not to find out for humanity, but precisely to see in practice where people are stuck, where we can help and what is actually helpful. We can make nice rules, but that doesn't help. The people we have played freely in VWS are looking at how we can speed this up in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u29	This is a nice setup for the question I want to ask. We are very excited about eHealth and we see initiatives everywhere. The Netherlands certainly does not lack innovation when it comes to this kind of thing, but it does lack implementation. Every time it turns out to be very complicated to replace the old way of working, where you have to go to the hospital and where you just see a doctor in a white coat, with a method where you can get care at a distance and things go very well. What, according to the Minister, are really the things we can do to make sure that we're really going to take steps here, that we're going to speed up, that we're going to say goodbye to that old-fashioned way of working that's not the best way for the patient at the end of the day?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u30	I would like to say that it makes sense. I was just saying in my introduction that if you look at their situation with nurses, their absenteeism and so on, you will see that the work pleasure is very high, but that the workload is really a focus. If you ask those same people who already experience a very high workload, to completely change their way of working and to do things differently, that is of course very difficult. If you look at how far we are in the Netherlands compared to many countries, I am certainly not dissatisfied, but it can be faster. If you compare health care with other sectors, it can be done faster. We are not trying to do this by means of rules, but by means of these kinds of acceleration programmes, such as the EUR 105 million that we are releasing for hospitals, the FastTrack programme, but also Health Impact Bonds and health deals. It's all in English, and I'm sorry for that, in practice things we just didn't get done, we're just getting it done, or we're just speeding up. Such news as this morning about pharmacists with a viewing shutter, I think is very good news, because that means that the technology is really being used where it can have enormous value for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u31	I share the Minister's enthusiasm and I also think that there are many fine initiatives. The Minister himself mentioned a number of them. ParkinsonNet is embraced by many. Yesterday, I mentioned COPD in my own image, which is now also being embraced by a large insurer, which means that many COPD patients no longer have to go to hospital. We're talking about 80% of those patients who can just stay home. That is certainly for a COPD patient who is already in poor condition, a huge profit in the quality of life. I also share the fact that the Minister is taking all kinds of initiatives to speed this up, but I sometimes wonder whether we are looking at the successful projects enough to learn from them. COPD in the picture, for example, is a success. Why did you do it there? What can we learn from that? How can we make more of these projects a success?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u32	I think that's the way we should go. I don't think policy programs matter here. The government's been trying that for a long time. I remember when I was in the Chamber myself, Hans Hoogervorst also had programs. Business was then looked at to see why things were going fast and not in health care. I fully agree with Mr Rutte that we should concentrate on this. Where is it going very well and how can we apply it? That's what our focus should be instead of really fun, high-tech playthings that don't make the patient any better. I also found that the inspiration of the eHealth Week of June. There were a number of people with severe disabilities and restrictions. They told the room what could be better and what they encountered, so that the listeners thought about how to improve the life of that person. That's better than assuming something they've discovered themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u33	May I ask you all to keep the interruptions as short as possible? The introductions are sometimes quite extensive. There is still a budget debate on the agenda today. I may chair them too, so I also speak here a little for my own sake. No, of course it's in the best interest of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u34	Another incredibly important point is the shift from care to the neighborhood. I have mentioned a number of fine examples. Building care in the neighborhood is not the most difficult. On the other hand, simple hospital care needs to be reduced. These are communicating vessels. Of course, that's much harder. If you ask in an average hospital what people think about it, then you agree that things need to be bundled and not all of them should be done the same. However, if you ask hospitals what they want to give up, it's a lot quieter. As long as there are doctors who say that 95% of their patients actually belong to the GP, we still have a lot to do and a lot to gain. This is also about speeding up and broadening all the fine examples, which are there. Healthcare insurers play an important role in this. Healthcare insurer VGZ has made agreements with ten hospitals about shrinkage. That is quite different from growth, which has been the subject of this debate over the past few decades. Those are far-reaching agreements, and everyone has to get used to them. We can all feel that, too. But if we really want to work on care close to home, which is not our offer but the patient's need, then we will have to make that move. There are more examples of hospitals that organise chronic care outside the hospital, along with the first line. For the insured, this means not only close to home but also that they do not have to address their own risk. We all know Bernhoven in Uden, but Menzis is also working in collaboration with the Martini Hospital, the Silver Cross in collaboration with Isala clinics and VGZ in collaboration with the Northwest Hospital Group. This is the way we have to go. This is how our healthcare system should work, and no matter how it's designed. This is how it will have to work, if we do not always want to keep up the burden of who has to pay what, but to control the cost of care while keeping quality high by organizing smarter and using what can be done. Everyone has to take their part in that. Where this is not enough, "care follows money" must be the new adage. In recent years, we have said: if care moves, the money must go with it. But I think at some point you should think about whether you should move money and then have care followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mrs Bruins Slot, I understand that you have just made the appointment with the President to reply in principle after the cubes, unless a particular subject had really been completed. Let me take a look at the Minister, who has several sub-blocks in her little block of introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u36	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm already at the third and final block. I'll do it on the subject. I'm moving on to a new topic now, so I can imagine that we're now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u37	That's the guidance I wanted from the minister. If we're at the end of that block now, I think it's a good time for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u38	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you very much for that. The minister stands in her lighthouse and looks around with the binoculars. Then you always see the horizon well and the way you have to follow in the long run. The minister says those hospitals should look different. There must be care from the hospitals to care nearby. I'm asking the Minister to take a closer look. At the moment, the emergency services are being flooded by vulnerable elderly people who do not belong there. If we're trying to give them a place in the neighborhood to provide temporary care, it's just not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u40	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u41	My question to the Minister is what she will do about it in the next 12 weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u42	The next block is about what I'm gonna do about it. Of course, this includes emergency services. I can bring that forward, if that's appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u43	Fine. Then I suggest that the Minister completes the block and that the follow-up question comes next. Otherwise things might get mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u44	A point of order. The Minister keeps a nice story and has a number of cubes. The minister's already done. The MPs have six more questions. Then it is said: no, that question is over. Then we will have been able to ask three questions throughout the first period because of the way in which the debate is conducted. So I don't think that's going very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u45	You made your own appointment with the chairman. The chairman is here to facilitate you. So we're gonna do it the way the Chamber wants us to do it. That's my angle. If the Minister says that she has something to say about a block and that she would like to ask questions about it after that, that seems to me in itself to be a very logical order of the sitting. If the Minister says that she has completed a block and that there will then be a block in which the question will be answered, I could suggest to Mrs Bruins Slot that she should come back afterwards; perhaps Mrs Klever has another question about the block that the Minister has just completed. The MPs should simply be able to ask the questions that are important. I totally share that, but I try to organize it in such a way that we keep the subjects together a little bit. Then it is also easier to follow for the people at home. If Mrs Bruins Slot is okay with it, I'd like to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u46	I understand the Minister has one more block and is all done. Then the MPs still have questions. I agree with your proposal and I really want the Minister to talk it out, but perhaps it would be useful for the order to know how many cubes there will be; perhaps it could also be briefly indicated which cubes there are. Then we will also know when we can place the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u47	Fine. I got a list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u48	That was a general list. It said, "What's the agenda?" That's the agenda I've had to worry about close to home. Then comes the acute care. Then we get the confused people; it's all very short. Then the mental health services, with the switching team, follow the regulatory pressure and medicines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mr President, may I make a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u50	Sure, but these are the cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u51	That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u52	Okay, fine. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u53	In itself it sounded very logical at first, but now I am getting the feeling that we should finish it all in writing. If there is no room to debate the issues with each other, what are we doing here today? So I think this is too strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u54	You absolutely must have that space. I've taken over an appointment you made for this, of course. I have a list of cubes here, but that turns out to be the Secretary of State's list. So I understand that the Minister has just indicated her list of cubes. Things are going the way you want to; I'm here to facilitate you. If the Members of Parliament simply want to be able to interrupt at any time, we can also agree with each other, because I think the cubes are all quite small and then we would also have a forced situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u55	You do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u56	I would suggest that the Minister should first answer Mrs Bruins Slot's question and then go to Mrs Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u57	Following a letter I received from Amsterdam, we immediately talked to the people about the acute chain in Amsterdam: what are the bottlenecks and where is it stuck? Then, of course, we looked at whether this is unique for Amsterdam or whether we see this in other parts of the Netherlands. We have therefore started work on identifying, by region, where the bottlenecks arise and what actions are to be taken by those who are to be set in motion. This too is a question of cooperation and, in some cases, of job restructuring. Sometimes it's also about extra money; I've cleared it for ambulances. It doesn't help, of course, I never get used to it when I sit at the table with all those people and then suddenly I get a letter of fire from the NVZ through the Chamber, with which we sit at the table. I'm fine with that, but I think it's much more convenient to just hand over that letter when we're sitting at the table with the NVZ. It's clear there's a problem. We are working on that. We are talking in the regions and we are looking at the bottlenecks. These must be delivered by region, so that we can see whether it is the same everywhere or whether it contains regional characteristics. We have noted that we also have a problem with training. Look at the hasty closure of the emergency room near Schiedam. That was a hasty closure because some people called in sick, there was something about the layoffs and suddenly there were too few people. You can see that the nurses we need there are also a bottleneck. You only solve that by going around the table with each other, by inventorying it, and then when everyone takes responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u58	It was not only a letter of fire from the hospitals but also from the providers of first-line accommodation, who should actually organise emergency care for the elderly in the neighbourhood. Then I'm going to worry as a CDA, because then I think: the minister is talking, but apparently it's going way too slow. I think it's too slow, too. I now read in the Minister's replies that a solution must not be found until 1 May 2017. It's got to be a lot sooner, isn't it? My appeal to the Minister is: make sure that there really is an emergency plan per region within one month, one and a half months, so that we are done with this and so that the elderly simply get the care they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u59	Of course, it depends on what you're looking at. If you want to map all the bottlenecks, it'll take until May. But of course you can see early next year, so in January, what is contracted on first-line beds and what is available. So you can see if it stains white or not. Mrs Bruins Slot may say that I am talking, but of course I can also throw money randomly somewhere and think that I have solved it. No, we will first have to identify what is going on in such a region, where the bottlenecks are and where the solutions are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u60	We really are a small country. That doesn't take six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mrs Bruins Slot, I did not give you the floor. I'd like to move on to Mrs. Klever. We really need to try to get the debate right. In principle, we do interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u62	There really is an acute problem in the emergency sector. Emergency units are overflowing. Hospitals don't have beds anymore. People can't be transferred. Older people are in the emergency room and have nowhere to go. I very much agree with Mrs Hanke Bruins Slot: we can't wait six months, can we? We have an acute problem now, don't we? What can the Minister do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u63	Nor do I wait to take action until the end, in May, everything is finished and on paper. Anything that can be done now. Anything we can solve right now, we can solve it now. That's what I've been showing you. I've already cleared extra money for ambulances. That's what we're seeing right now, and I can make money for that now. I'm not gonna sit back and wait until May to finish the business. No, I'm gonna do everything I can right now. By May at the latest, we need to have the entire trajectory in view, but anything that can be done earlier is done sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u64	I'm hearing very few plans of what the Minister is about to do. One example is: can the Minister at least ensure that emergency services are not closed now? That of the Vlietland Hospital in Schiedam is on the schedule to be closed as of 1 January 2016. No, the emergency room at the Vlietland...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u65	It's closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u66	... closed on November 1st, sorry. I find that really incomprehensible when there are such problems. The emergency aid of MCH Antoniushove will be closed on 1 January 2017. Can the Minister at least ensure that no new emergency services are closed if there are such huge problems in the emergency sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u67	I am also very unhappy about the closure of the emergency department of the Vlietland Hospital in Schiedam, especially about the way that happened. It was just said at once: we don't have people for a while, so we close the emergency room in the night hours. Of course, that surprised everyone. We have also said: boys, we have a Regional Consultation Acute Care for a reason; you must have a good view of what it looks like here, who does what and how you keep each other well informed. So I was also very surprised that that happened, but that was because of a lack of staff to manage that emergency. So it's a complex situation. Unfortunately, I can't just solve it with one rule. I could go around the table with anyone. Wherever I can do something, like pay extra money for ambulances, I do. Unfortunately, where it takes longer, it must also take longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u68	I said this yesterday, and my colleague, who has more experience in budgetary treatment, indicated that this was also the case last year. I think there is a particular need for this to be mapped out as soon as possible, and for everything to be put where there are still white spots. Of course, that should be known by the end of this year. Where there are white spots, this should be set in motion before the end of the year. We don't have to wait until next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u69	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u70	Is it possible to at least inform the Chamber about this? The sooner the better, and we're in the middle of the contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u71	I agree with that. We'll do that as soon as we can. Those white spots need to be clear. Where are there enough first-line beds and where are there not enough first-line beds? I think the ambulances are the absolute priority and this is the number two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u72	I think we are a lot further, because for us it is important to know these white spots and to know what happens next. We shouldn't wait till next year. Following yesterday's debate, I received an e-mail from a lecturer from the Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences, who wrote that most of the acute needs of elderly people in the emergency room were people with palliative problems in their last year of life. Could the Minister also pay particular attention to this? These people come to the emergency room with a question that is not really intended for the first aid. Those are the people who benefit from other shelters, for example a first-line residence. I thought that was a very relevant addition. It does not need to be now, but I would like the Minister to take this with him and inform us of how that can be overcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u73	I think this also indicates that this is a problem with different angles and different causes. I've been to a doctor's office myself. I talked to the GPs there and the people behind the phone. They said that something happened in their system, which suddenly means that more people are referred to the doctor's office that doesn't really belong there. There's a lot more people in the ambulance all of a sudden. So we need to find out what caused this first. This is also something from all sides that we should not want. There are people in the family doctor's office who could have stayed at home and solved things differently, and the general practitioner's office is filling up. It is therefore unpleasant for the people but also for the general practitioners. We'll see the same thing at the ambulances. At least, at the doctor's office in which I visited, suddenly many more ambulances drove out when that was not really necessary. So we need to look at what's changed there that's what's causing this to happen. This happens to be the case in my neighborhood; it may well have another cause elsewhere. That's why we're talking. Is it the mansion? Is it the first-line beds? Is it something else we need to solve, like palliative questions? We need to get a clear picture of that. But I totally agree with Mrs Volp that we should start where we start: first the ambulances, the first-line beds and the resolution of the white spots. That's how we're gonna have to peel it off slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u74	The minister says: what happened at the Vlietland Hospital in the Schiedam/Vlaardingen region is not really possible. The Minister feels that we should return to the table. But does the Minister also think it should be opened up there, and that the hospital can't actually come up with the story that it can't find people? They'll take it away from Erasmus or other hospitals. You solve that, I'd say, and you don't leave people out there in the cold after 5:00 or 11:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u75	Of course, we went after that. It's not working now. They can't borrow people from the surrounding hospitals either. But as soon as possible, of course, that post should just open again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u76	The Minister says that this post should simply be open, because that is a necessary concern for that region. The post cannot therefore disappear in the long term. The mail must be re-opened as soon as possible. Does this also apply to clinical obstetrics and that sort of thing? Because that's also a big point. Shouldn't the same apply to this, namely that the Minister uses her authority and influence to ensure that that hospital simply complies with its obligations and cares in that crowded area with a lot of traffic problems? That must be properly arranged and resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u77	We have national standards in terms of driving times to be met. They are designed so that we have a proper distribution of emergency services. Insurers have a duty of care, so this has to be right. There must be sufficient ambulances and emergency rooms. That wasn't the case here. It's not like an insurance company said, "Close the emergency room." In this case, the hospital shut down the emergency room because of force majeure. If a hospital does this for reasons of force majeure, it must be resolved as soon as possible, so that the emergency services can be reopened. That is agreed in the region with all parties. VWS was present, because VWS was also very surprised about the message. We have agreed that the emergency services will be reopened as soon as they can in a decent manner and there will be people to man that post. That's what's agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u78	The Minister continues her speech. We now come to the cubes of "confused persons" and "ggz," if I have noted it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u79	I am talking to the regions about how they take over the transport of confused persons on 1 January. The police will stop doing so, and that has also been agreed within the framework of the hunting team and the conclusions that have been drawn there. Transport is stopped when it comes to people who are not dangerous. You should, because these people need care. They must therefore end up in a care path and not in a police route. The transport must be arranged. For this I made 6 million euros extra available from 2017 onwards. In addition, a total of €8 million is available for pilots with appropriate transport. In mental health care, it is extremely important that we go from the current Law Bopz, a detention law, to the Law compulsory ggz, a treatment law. This treatment law allows us to treat much earlier and to be much more preventive. This will prevent things from escalating. This law enables family members to be much more involved in the treatment of their family member. That law is very much needed in practice. People are waiting for it. I therefore hope that this legislative proposal before the elections can be dealt with. I will also give my full support to the Confused Persons Switching Team, which continues the work of the chasing team, to implement a closing chain approach for those who are now falling between shore and ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u80	I have a specific question for the Minister. Is the transport for the reception of confused persons in Overijssel arranged on 1 January? Who exactly is going to do that? I'd like to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u81	Transport is always arranged, because it is not the case that the police stop at once and there is no alternative. In one region, care will be able to take over faster than in the other region, but there is always transport. So it's not like everyone just stops and drops it out of their hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u82	For the general consultation on 22 December, can the Minister indicate, on the basis of the ROAZ regions, exactly who will pick up transport on 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u83	I'll let you know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u84	Thank you very much for this excellent, perturbed interruption. Can the Minister say anything about the date?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u85	Yeah, for that AO. You have the date of the AO in your head; I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u86	December 22nd.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u87	Yes, I'll send that to you in time so you can take a good look at it. We have agreed that we are trying to send something for an AO at least one week. I'll do the same here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u88	That sounds like a clear deal to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u89	Ten years ago, my maiden speech was about the new treatment law instead of the lockdown law. I hope, with the Minister, that after ten years, we can actually introduce that law for these people. However, my question relates to something else, namely a problem which I believe the Labour Party shares with the Minister. If anyone has anything to do with his body, everyone knows: Oh, dear, something's going on, we call 911 and an ambulance comes in. But when someone walks very confused on the street, people like to help, but they don't know what to do and then walk by a little bit. The awareness you can call when someone's confused has been a problem for a long time. As a result, people are sometimes unnecessarily overwhelmed with themselves and are not given any help. What steps are being taken to ensure that people in the Netherlands know who to call and that there will be timely appropriate help?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u90	There must be 24/7 crisis shelter for the ggz. That's the first thing. The second is that in situations where you used to call 911, you just have to keep doing that. I'm afraid people will get confused by phone numbers. Back in the day, the police came, and they took care of it. Now it has to be checked at the triage whether someone is dangerous or not; then there will be a psycholance or an ambulance or other transport. So I think that 112 is very important, because another number is almost impossible to get into people's system. The front desk where you enter stays the same and it has to go differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u91	It seems very important to me that people know that they can call 911. Problem is, a lot of people don't think you call 911 for that. How can you raise awareness about this? A lot of people are involved, they want to do what, but they don't know who or what to call.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u92	We're gonna have to pick that up with the switching team. The switching team knows where the problems lie in the region and who should take on what role. I will put it there and ask what he thinks should happen in practice. I wonder if another song is useful, but we should take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u93	I would like to point out another group that may also need mental health care, namely status holders. I have tabled an amendment on this subject aimed at ensuring that the interpretation fee can be paid if, for example, a ggz care provider has to deal with a client who needs mental health care but does not speak good Dutch. The Minister writes in her answers that she only wants to take care of this for the general practitioner. How will the Minister deal with these other situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u94	I am quite prepared to see whether we can apply this scheme to that group, but for the same period. I attach great importance to this because I think that we should encourage people to learn Dutch as soon as possible, but I understand that this is complicated when you just come in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u95	Of course, I could have given other examples, because people may also need other care, such as second-line care or midwife care. The problem is that the Minister's proposal is limited to general care, but only for the first half of the year. In order to be able to conduct a care interview properly, you definitely need level B1. An additional criticism of the Minister's proposal is that the scheme is only applicable for two years. In two years we will have new status holders again and then you will have the same problem. Surely it makes more sense to come up with a permanent arrangement and one that is wider than the Minister's proposal now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u96	So I don't agree with that. If you are longer in the Netherlands, you must learn the language. If you're here any longer, you're gonna power out. For me, it's about the time you're here. We have now received so many people, that many people flow very quickly. So they are very quickly status holder and quickly arrived in a municipality. They are no longer in the COA where an interpretation fee is provided, but where you also have to learn Dutch. I understand that a status holder who has only just been living in a municipality for a week if something happens, the language is not yet powerful. I do think you should make the effort to learn the language as soon as possible. That is why I think the time attached to it is so important. That's a clear signal. So time is limited. It might be different in two years. Whoever sits there can say: the flow is the same and we extend it, or it is not the same, and then we do not prolong it. Well, that's the situation. I cannot now see what the influx of refugees into the Netherlands will be like in two years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u97	I agree with Mrs Bouwmeester's questions. I also thought about it in the first place. The minister writes that people can report to number 112, but that it is important for less urgent aid questions to be organised 24/7 hotlines in the neighborhood. I think that's very important, too. The minister says she leaves this to municipalities and health insurance companies. Will she also see to it that this is actually done? We can leave it to municipalities and health insurance companies, but that consultation is not always very flexible. And then I'm still quietly expressing myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u98	So that's what we have a switching team for. Liesbeth Spies led a team that charted everything. That team told you what steps to take. I could have said, "Dear people, you all see what steps you have to take; here's the product; do it." We didn't. I have said that I want a new team to ensure that these steps are taken. The switching team led by Onno Hoes will guide this journey over the next two years, so that the steps indicated by the team of Liesbeth Spies are actually applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u99	Let me therefore trust that the switching team will achieve what is very difficult in practice, namely the organisation of the consultation between health insurers and municipalities. I know it goes well in a lot of places, but it doesn't go well in a lot of places either. I really hope that we will not wait two years, but that the VWS ministry will continue to ensure that the agreements between municipalities and health insurance companies are actually implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u100	The health insurance companies and the municipalities are also on the switching team. So these worlds are brought together there. That's where it should be. Moreover, health insurers and municipalities are increasingly interrelated in a wide range of areas. This applies, for example, to prevention. Some preventive matters are the responsibility of the municipality, others are the responsibility of the insurer. Often it does not come about because there is a head somewhere, one wonders who has the advantage and then one decides not to do it. It is precisely to bring the parties together that we have made an arrangement. The Secretary of State also regularly sits around the table with municipalities and insurers from his portfolio. Those two need to work together more. I fully agree with you that this should also be done in this area. That's why they're both on the switching team.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u101	I should like to comment briefly on the problem of confused persons. We recently received a letter from GGZ Nederland. There is 30 million available for the hunting team, but GGZ Netherlands considers this amount to be totally insufficient. There is a great deal of internal capacity being cut down, while the outpatient facilities are actually not yet in order. Is it not wise not to reduce the internal capacity so quickly, to temporize it for a moment, so as to ensure that everything is in order first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u102	In addition to the 30 million, I asked the NZa about the financing of the crisis ggz. This is where things don't seem to go well either. As a result of this question, the NZa indicated that the tariffs would be significantly increased, precisely in order to be open 24/7. So it's not just about the 30 million. That amount has been cleared for Liesbeth Spies' report. For example, it is also a price increase for such a crisis service. In addition to the construction of the first line, we also have a monitoring run. We've always said that the rural image was very mixed, but you can't do so much with it. That is why we want to be able to look much deeper in the regions in future. Then we see, for example, that it is going well in one region, that it is well built there, and that it is not going well in the other region. If you do that, you get an average picture, but in that one region we really have to get to work. The monitor will help us to identify which regions need to step up their efforts and in which regions health insurers, together with the field, really need to work harder to build up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u103	We're seeing an increase in the confusion problem. So somehow it's not in order. GGZ Nederland thinks 140 million is needed for a final approach. I think we all agree that the problem needs to be resolved. I'll come back to my first point anyway. It's about crisis relief, but it's also about after-care. Wouldn't it be wiser to look again at how quickly the inpatient capacity at the ggz is being reduced? And should we not temporize for a moment to close the gap between what is needed and what is now available?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u104	Something's happening in all kinds of areas. That's exactly what I'm talking about. If we adopt the law mandatory ggz, we can go to the front instead of to the back. So we can sit at the front instead of intervene when a case has already escalated. We have a monitor, so we're looking at it. Mr Van Gerven asks to look at it, but it is already being looked at. This may mean that in Region A things are actually going well, but that we should temporize in Region B. Or to build quickly; that is of course also an alternative. So it is true that monitoring is being carried out. The crisis ggz is being looked at. The NZa raises the rates for this. A switch team will look at the implementation: where should a tooth go and where is it going well? The switching team will also pull my jacket if it thinks we need to realise things that we are not doing enough. That's how we all have to do it. Mr. Chairman. I've stayed with the regulatory burden in the care department. Less bureaucracy is more time for the patient. That's the point. Solutions are found and implemented with general practitioners and pharmacy, in consultation with insurers and patients. That's actually doing really well. This process is not going so well with the paramedics and in mental health care. I would not like to say that the consultation with the insurers is stalled there, but'strike' is also euphemistic. That is why I have taken more direction in these two routes. There too it can and should be less with the control pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u105	Let me be honest. I think it is right that the Minister should take this up, that she should work on it and see if we can reduce the regulatory burden, because it drives everyone crazy in health care. But why is it difficult with the health insurance companies in the field of paramedics?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u106	I got everyone at the table to record the thermometer and see what's going on. The atmosphere of the general practitioners and pharmacy is very good among themselves. One compliments one another. I notice that there is a kind of common denominator: we are going to deal with this together. With the paramedics and the ggz, I didn't have that at all. There was a bit of a blaming atmosphere. One party blames the other and the other one blames the other. That's why I said, guys, it's gotta be different. At the end of this month we have planned longer sessions for both groups so that we can also see what it is exactly in. What's with the distrust? How can we eliminate this mistrust and replace it with trust? How can we get the atmosphere in the other groups in these groups? Because in the end, for those who do the work, for the people on the workplace, it's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u107	I don't really get it either. The general practitioners, the pharmacists and paramedics, such as physiotherapists, are doing a fantastic job. We have very highly educated, good caregivers. Then where can this mistrust come from? The quality of physiotherapy in the Netherlands is also just fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u108	So that's what I put in that session. We're gonna take a look at what he's into. Is it something obvious? Is it a feeling? Don't people feel taken seriously? I don't know. That session will take place at the end of this month with both groups to see what we can do. How can we pull this off in the interests of those who actually do the job? At the same time, I also start with hospitals. That seems more complex, because a pediatrician is not an oncologist and everyone has their own things. But the Federation itself has indicated that it would very much like to do that. So we're looking at how we can start that and make it successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mrs. Bouwmeester, try as short as Mrs. Bruins Slot. I'm sure it'll work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u110	Of course. Steps are being taken, but it's very viscous. If you start from the system, you'll see which rules there are, which ones go off and how to do better. However, if you assume the new understanding of positive health, you go back to the intention. I can imagine that you would then delete all kinds of rules and look at the purpose of care and the added value. Ask the patient that question. The answer to this is largely decisive. What are the possibilities of getting rid of the system and, once again looking at the purpose of care, the outcome of care answered by letting the patient be much more leading and thus removing a bulk of rules, also in the interest of all those nurses and doctors who are going crazy about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u111	When you talk to everyone separately, you see that everyone with the best intentions does their job. The insurer wants the best care for the patient he can buy for an affordable premium for the patient. The physiotherapist just wants to give you the care he thinks the patient needs. The patient would like to have an insight into how his physiotherapist is doing in relation to someone else. That's how everyone's got their points. My experience is that it's better if parties have the confidence to find each other at the table, maybe sometimes blowing off steam in front of each other and really talking things out. It's much better if it hits a table like that for a second than if everyone's just hung up on everything. I can't tell you exactly what it's about yet. Don't people want to take those steps back or have other things happened? I just want to find out why it goes in two groups and not in two others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u112	Suppose there is a profession that wants to return to the purpose of care, which wants to measure outcomes much more on the basis of whether the patient has received what he wanted and the added value of care. Is it then possible that the health insurance company, the supervisor and the professional group use the Swedish model as an experiment, with eight indicators, that they do this for three years or four years I don't know how long it is needed and that this will become normal if it works? Is such an experiment conceivable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u113	As far as I am concerned, if they are distinctive indicators, they can do very well. In practice, however, when you look at directives, it is said that insurers often ask out. We have said: register the tripartite at the Quality Institute. Then any insurer can take that as a starting point. However, let us also look at the scientific associations. Why don't you ask for some guidelines for fun? Look at such a directive. Those are sometimes thick packs of paper. If you, as a doctor, are given such a directive... I have also talked about it with doctors, with oncologists, who are very critical about it themselves. There too, a battle must be struck. This must be done in the case of insurers and in the case of their own scientific associations. However, don't underestimate what an industry organisation or hospital asks. So it's all stacked together. If the parties agree and want to come up with a huge simplification blow, I'm the last one to say it's not allowed. However, I would like the patient, as a third party, to agree that it does not say that much information is lost for him. These kinds of processes run very well with the pharmacists and the general practitioners, but with the paramedics and in the ggz it can be much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u114	It is true that healthcare providers in hospitals have to provide an endless amount of indicators and information. I believe that the hospital in Utrecht alone employs four fte to provide information. That is far too much and should be much less. However, that is not what my question is about. There is a lot of information being provided that reaches different authorities. How nice it would be if the minister took the lead, made a selection out of that information and presented it in an understandable way, so that the patient could see at a glance how well a hospital, for example, is doing and can click on to see how well a certain department is doing. The BOR does this, for example, for the ministry of VWS and indicates this with colors, green, orange and red. And by the way, I still see a lot of red. In America they do it with icons and colors. I thought that was gonna be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u115	Let me come back to the first point. Why don't you ask the hospitals what they're asking their own doctors? Doctors say that their hospital also asks a lot of its own people. The hospital wants to measure everything. We're all in on it. That's what it is. We have proposed to go more from the government to an information broker. I even went to Question Time for it. If we as governments share information with each other, I think it would be a good idea not to ask out five times. No, then we should also look at how we can share information much more with each other, of course entirely according to the privacy rules. Every party has to do it, so do we. We have asked the Quality Institute to make it clear to patients. For quite a few common diseases, the Quality Institute has done so. The point is that this quality information doesn't say much. A hospital can have a green icon and be very good at knees, but score less on cardiology. What did the Quality Institute do? That is what has been said: no one needs general information. But if I have a certain disease and if I'm in stage one, then I need to be able to get information about that stage. Then you can go to KiesBeter.nl, then you can go to Thuisarts.nl. That's all linked together because we don't want to do things twice. If you've just been diagnosed with breast cancer, you can see what your options are. What does good, what doesn't do right? What better way to do it, what better way to do it? That's how we handled it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u116	First of all, I disagree with the Minister that you can't make a general score of a hospital. You can make a score per department and that in a certain way roads for all hospitals, and then come to a total score for a hospital. Then you should be able to click on it. The Minister says that this information is all there, but the quality information, the price information, the monitoring information is all fragmented. Patients no longer see the forest through the trees. We have KiesBeter, we have ZorgkaartNetherlands, we have a quality window of the hospital, we have the NPCF that makes information clear, we have health insurance companies that sometimes make information transparent. The patient really doesn't know how to find the right information in that muck of information. How wonderful it would be if the Minister said: we all combined that, quality, price, supervision, all together in one insightful website for the patient. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u117	The lists are made, for example by the AD and Elsevier. They often do so on very hard data, for example from the inspection. So it's not like it can't be done. It's already happening. That's the battle that makes newspapers and magazines themselves. We're not here with that information. I think price information should also be known. A change has finally been made: it is going to happen. As a government, we have not chosen to do the work of others again. Thuisarts.nl of the general practitioners works very well. That site is highly appreciated and attracts many visitors. We don't have to do that work again. What we can do is supplement the missing information via KiesBeter.nl. We're trying to connect all these things through that address. Then you're a good clicker. If you are really looking for information, you need to know where to get good, reliable information, because there are also a lot of sites whose information is not reliable. As a government, we try to connect what is already there. Where we see white spots, we try to fill them ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u118	I would like to dwell briefly on the stranglehold in which the health insurance companies hold a number of paramedical professions. Then it's about the physiotherapists in particular. There is a big dispute, a big discussion about the treatment index, the average number of treatments a physiotherapist performs in a particular condition. On the basis of this treatment test, they receive their money or, if necessary, are reduced. Doesn't the Minister think it should stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u119	I'm going with the physiotherapists, the health insurance companies and the patients around the table to see how we can improve relations. Before that, I'm not going to make any statements about things that would happen now. It's not "they," "always" and "it happens." Some insurers do, but first I want to have that conversation about what's on the table and how we can proceed with it. We'll have that conversation very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u120	The Minister notes that it happens that health insurers look at the number of treatments applied by a physiotherapist. The health insurance companies then say: you treat too much and so you will be cut short. Then it can only be the conclusion that in that case the health insurance company interferes with the quality of the care of the physiotherapist and thus sits on the physiotherapist's chair? The Minister is not going to make a statement now, and that is why I am telling her that it might be good to disconnect it and say "mirror is good," because looking at what you are doing and comparing it with others is excellent. You can learn from that, but that should not affect the payment of the physiotherapist. When you do that, you enter into the professional practice of the physiotherapist himself. The health care provider will really be sitting on the assistant's chair, in this case the physiotherapist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u121	This summary doesn't exactly match what I've been told about how it goes. That is why I think it is important for me to hear from everyone at the table what the experiences are and how things are going. I do not have to make all kinds of statements until I have had that conversation, because the insurers will clearly nuance your input. Furthermore, the physiotherapists might say: no, that's how we see it. I would first like to take the parties themselves around the table to see how we can pull this off with each other and how we can rebuild our mutual trust. I want to open that conversation. Mr. Chairman. Innovative drugs are gonna mean a lot to seriously ill people. Here too, customization is on the rise, often with spectacular results: not weeks but months or years, good years and sometimes even healing. That is crucial, because it can mean that you can see your children grow up in those extra years, you can make that beautiful journey and still enjoy it. The high cost of these medicines at the same time threatens affordability and accessibility of care. I think I should be able to explain why we are paying these high prices. If someone asks me why a particular medicine costs a million per person, I must be able to explain that it is in development costs or that something else is making it so incredibly expensive. But I can't explain how those sums are made right now. I have no idea how much these drugs cost. That is not transparent. I can't force it either, because it's an industry that's all over the world and not specifically in the Netherlands. We are 1% to 2% of the world market, and that is why we do not have that power and that power. Nevertheless, it is hard to believe that through universities and knowledge institutions we are providing a great deal of knowledge on the basis of which the manufacturer can then produce a medicine. Of course, there's public money in that too. That includes subsidies, and if we are to grant subsidies, we need to know what has gone to R&D and what the price structure looks like. That is the least that should be done, because I believe that money should also be returned. At the very least, we must make the construction clear and transparent. That is why I support the manufacturers and the coalitions who think it should be different. Those are small initiatives, let us be realistic. It is therefore small amounts, whereas it is a billion-dollar industry. It is a movement that the Netherlands can never make on its own. This movement must be deployed at European level. Because we can't do it alone, the Netherlands must join forces with other countries, KWF Cancer Control, hospitals, pharmacists, medical and patient organisations and health insurance companies. At national level, too, a number of specific, very expensive medicines greatly affect the budgets of hospitals. We need to look at whether we can buy smarter and pool our forces more. The Netherlands is a small country with a high level of prosperity, so you can calculate that we pay about the top price for that. Is that real? It must be real, but it must also be much more transparent. I sent the new pharmaceutical vision to the Chamber. We're busy implementing it. It covers several years, so we can't do everything at once. But we've been busy working on it. In short: the care is in full motion; it is never ready. But I'm optimistic. Our care can do a lot and has shown in difficult times that it can be better and cheaper. I am extremely proud of all the passionate people who have worked hard for this, from the super-specialists in our top hospitals to those who make a difference in our neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods for the elderly and chronically ill. I am proud of the pioneers, the decision-makers, the hard workers, the creatives and those who dare to stick their necks out for real renewal. I am extremely proud of our wonderful health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u122	I have another question about medicines, but I do not want the Minister's fine final word to be lost. We have tabled an amendment on PrEP and the Minister has responded to it. The Minister indicated that she would submit an opinion to the Health Council. Is that advice request there yet? And when can we expect the advice? We hope that a very broad question will not be raised, as a lot of research has already been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u123	I will return to that in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u124	I have another question about Huntington's disease. That is an important issue for my group. Mr Dijkstra has also contributed to this. She said it would take $4 million to do further research. But the minister says it takes a lot more money. We are told very clearly by the UvA and the AMC that 4 million can really be taken an important step in research into Huntington's disease. Would the Minister be willing to contact the UvA and the AMC to discuss that? They really come up with that amount of 4 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u125	Huntington's disease is a terrible disease, for which we have no medicines. I share Mrs Bergkamp's ambition. We all hope to find something against this terrible disease. But the point is that the government does not really interfere in the development of medicines. But I have indicated that, of course, we are going to talk to these experts, who say: we are here and this is what is needed. I would also like to look with them at how we can tie things together, for example how what ZonMw does can make a step forward. We often know where all kinds of money are, while sometimes it is difficult for researchers. I'm sure I'm willing to put some real strength into this. The amendment was too short for me, but I would say to Mrs Bergkamp that at least I will take it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mrs Bergkamp, we're doing two-way interruptions and you asked your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u127	I asked a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u128	To which the Minister replied, she will return in her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u129	But this was a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u130	Well, let's go, even though I think it's a complicated construction. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u131	I don't think there's any other way, because that's how we agreed. I'm glad the Minister shares the ambition. It's a terrible disease. The researchers say: we've come this far, but we just need that little bit of extra support, that 4 million. The Minister admits that she is in conversation with the UvA and the AMC. I'm asking her to reconnect the results of that conversation to the Chamber. If we have the same goal in mind, it would be a shame if we could not give that little extra support. Does the Minister want to put that back this year? It would be a shame if this commitment was lost in next year's campaign violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u132	I'll give the Chamber a feedback on the conversations we've had. It may also be that some things are still running or need to be sorted out, but then I will report to the Chamber on the state of play at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u133	Following on from the commitment made by the Minister, I would ask her to include the Secretary of State. One of the points that emerged was the fundamental investigation into a medicine. But it was also about problems with care and the social problems experienced by patients with Huntington, their relatives and carriers of this inherited disease. The Minister briefly referred to this in her reply, referring to the Secretary of State, but that document is also needed. It is also about awareness and better, prematurely inherited screening, which again has consequences for, for example, social problems such as finding a home and financing it. Can the Minister take that with her if she informs the Chamber about those talks? I'm gonna take a look at whoever's sitting next to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u134	We'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u135	I asked a question yesterday, which was also addressed in the written debate, about the difficult questions surrounding very expensive medicines which only produce limited health benefits. I have already indicated that doctors are sometimes talking to us about this, just a pulmonary doctor and a urologist, and say that we should also think of it as a political one. Then I answer that I think it belongs more in their office. Then it stays a bit in the middle. I do not have a clear statement on that myself, but I would like to put that difficult question on the table here. How does the Minister respond to this from her point of view and responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u136	It is precisely in the pharmaceutical sector that cost-effectiveness plays an important role in the assessment of whether something is included in the basic package. If the Zorginstituut Nederland indicates that a medicine is not cost-effective, it also advises me not to include it in the basic package. These are often very bad decisions, but we do not regularly take medicines because they are not cost-effective, unlike many other things in healthcare. I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that we cannot ignore this issue as a political one. With medicines, this is much more explicit than with many other things in healthcare. If something is in the basic package or if it is allowed, the expert and the patient in the meeting room, possibly with the family, must decide together whether something is meaningful or not. That conversation is very valuable, because very often patients do not necessarily want to go to extremes. So I think this is an important subject, also politically, but I regularly receive advice from the Healthcare Institute to reject medicines. Sometimes that is because they have no therapeutic added value and therefore do not do more than the medicines that are already there. Sometimes it is also because cost-effectiveness is not in order. This can be sorted out by a reduction in prices; this is also the case on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u137	This is indeed the first step towards authorisation, but then the question is in which cases the product is actually recommended or authorised. Then there may also be some difficult questions, for example what the real health gain is. I understand that the Minister says that this is in the speaking room itself and that we do not have an additional role in it as a political one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u138	You often see that a medicine comes into the package for a rather limited indication, but that there are all kinds of other indications that can also be used very soon afterwards. This is really a joint thing. We can never run away from it as politics. We are getting more and more elderly people who are also getting much older and we can do more and more. That is why political considerations will always have to be made whether or not we do things. Let's be honest. I also put things in the lock. I set up a lock, just because in hospital care everything just got in the package. I said at the time that an expensive medicine does not automatically enter the package. That's why I made a lock. We then looked at therapeutic added value, cost-effectiveness and so on. So when you decide to do that, you also decide that you don't take something that doesn't. I make those decisions sometimes. Those are very difficult decisions, because on the other hand, the patients who have placed all their hopes on that medicine are on the other side. They remain very difficult debates, but we have to have them. The displacement of one form of care by another is much less visible, but ultimately there is a division of scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u139	I have a question on the written response to the amendments tabled. My amendment to item No. 21 is about a very acute problem, namely the flood of emergency services with vulnerable elderly people, among others, and about a beautiful project, Hospital@Home, which thinks it can provide a solution. I had made the amendment to properly evaluate that project so that we can then scale it up and implement it further. I can see that the Minister is denying that amendment, because an evaluation is already taking place. It is precisely me that we need to understand those factors that are needed to implement a nation-wide approach from this project. Yesterday I had contact with Mrs De Rooij, who draws this project. She says: there are applications, but we need this kind of information to scale up. If that is the intention, how does the Minister assess the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u140	The amendment concerned in particular an evaluation, but it is part of the ZonMw route. We have just discussed that the application of something which is very positive is lagging behind in the rest of the country. This is about emergency services, where the problems are considerable. If this amendment concerns the application of those things that work elsewhere and that there are barriers there, I do not know; Mr Rutte should include that in that amendment. Then we have to look at exactly what Mr Rutte wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u141	I will amend the amendment. I hope that before the end of this debate we can get a new appreciation from the Minister. It is indeed about scaling up and further implementing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u142	If I get the amended amendment before the end of the debate, I will. Otherwise, I'll do it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u143	I have read in the written reply very commendable words from the Minister about resources. The Minister says: the right tool for the right patient. I think all the problems have been solved with that, but I still have a question about it. It is specifically about the medical device dietary preparations, because something is going to play from January 1st. We discussed it in the spring when we discussed the package. Then it was argued that people can choose from a wide palette. Let me explain. Some people need 21 cups of milk a day. You can't, and that's why you have medical foods. I don't care about the supplier at all, but I would like those drinks, which are generally not so innovative as to be delicious, to end up with the right patient. What is the state of play of the concept of "wide choice"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u144	I will have to return to the exact state of affairs in the second term. We talked about it in the first place, at least Mrs Bouwmeester talked about it, whether we should say in the case of devices: you need a glucose meter, the glucose meter is in the package, then the health insurance company buys in one glucose meter and that is the meter you get. Mrs Bouwmeester asked if we should not deliver more customization, not one-size-fits-all, but much more applied. She mentioned the categories old, young and businesswoman. That category approach is an attractive one. For example, we have already established a number of categories in the case of dietary foods, and I do not know how many, because I am not an expert on food products and they are different from each other. One can tolerate one substance better and another. Within those categories, the health insurer purchases selectively. I'd like to copy that application. However, I will have to report in second place on the dietary preparations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u145	Thank you for this commitment, because that is exactly what we wanted. However, I do have an addition. As far as dietary preparations are concerned, everything is going to happen on 1 January. So that's a little more in a hurry than the glucose meter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr. Chairman. The amendments have also been dealt with in writing. I have just received one more amendment, so that has not been dealt with in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u147	Two of them have been complied with, namely the Bergkamp amendment to item No. 30 and the Van der Staaij amendment to item No. 31. It would be nice to have an appreciation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u148	The Secretary of State will deal with the amendment to item No. 31. The Bergkamp amendment to point No. 30 is about cannabis oil. What is proposed in the amendment will cost 1 million in the first year and will be covered by Article 4 of the Zorgbreed policy. The subsidy will continue in the following two years. It is about whether the government should investigate or facilitate the medicinal effects of cannabis oil. The good medical use of these powerful plants can therefore be given a further boost and alleviate the suffering of many patients. This amendment therefore proposes to launch a three-year scientific study on the medical effects of cannabis oil. The Agency for Medicinal Cannabis facilitates scientific research through the provision of standardised starting material. Three Dutch companies are currently investing in the development of medicines with cannabis as a raw material. The clinical studies required for registration as a medicinal product are started in the short term. More and more attention and research is being carried out worldwide on the potential therapeutic value of cannabis and/or substances from the cannabis plant. There are also several other research funds. These research programmes assess research projects independently on quality and content. It is not for me to assess whether this research is more likely or more likely than other studies and developments. That is precisely why we have experts who involve all the relevant factors. I would also recommend this route for this study. I'm willing to assist in finding the right funds, but I can't guarantee success. The application will have to be robust and have added value in relation to other applications. I would therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u149	I can imagine what the Minister is saying about the right approach to do research. The Transvaala Pharmacy provides cannabis oil and has many clients who benefit from it. They themselves say: we would really like to be more supported by scientific research, because then it becomes known to clients and doctors. It's also about security. What can a Transvaala Pharmacy do to establish the link to research, so that these two worlds come together? What's a convenient route for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u150	So much is happening internationally, but also in the Netherlands. I could offer to set up a pharmacy like that with the right agency. Whether it is good enough to be eligible for such a fund is not up to me, but I can show you the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u151	I welcome this commitment. That was the goal. A lot of clients use it. They're coming to this pharmacy. If that experience is linked to science, I think that's a good commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u152	They should check in with us for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u154	I think that's gonna be taken care of. This brings the Minister to the end of her speech. I propose that we suspend for five minutes and then proceed to the answer by the Secretary of State. By the way, Mr Elias will take over the presidency in a moment and I wish you a pleasant afternoon with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u155	We are still working on the budget for Health, Welfare and Sport. If the Members have taken their seats, I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their first-term input. Although Members always come first in my reply, I would like to address Mr Teunissen first. Our man, our Ton. Today is his last budgetary treatment, but it will not be his last long day on which he is told how he is well advised from the various political groups and sometimes a little bit from VWS, and has the ungrateful task of making a salomon judgment that will of course always objectively do justice to the many interests but not always feel so. Ton, from VWS, you've worked very well together. I would like to express my appreciation for this on this occasion. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u157	It is quite clear that the Chamber is unanimous in agreeing to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u158	Mr. Chairman. That our society changes, we see every day. We see elderly people who are increasingly in need of care and help, sometimes in a care facility but mostly at home. It colors our society. It colors our neighborhoods and streets. It is more normal to see more rollers in relation to the number of cyclists, increasingly familiar we will be with the neighborhood nurse who does her rounds through the street. More and more often, someone with onset dementia will be next to us in the bread department. This morning I heard shop workers on the radio saying that they will have to get used to the fact that there are more elderly people coming into the shops, who have different wishes and want a different way of serving. More and more normally, shops and businesses will be accessible to people with disabilities. Mrs Volp asked for a vision of longer life, as I believe they call it in China. I agree with her that, in general terms, we should be better prepared for longer lives. This concerns not only care, but also retirement, well-being and all kinds of other aspects that have to do with that longer life. I am prepared to talk to my colleagues about how we can achieve such a vision, perhaps in the form of interdepartmental policy research or with a number of scientists. I am very willing to carry that forward. Times change, people change, and society changes. The place where people grow old changes, too. And Mrs. Volp doesn't change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u159	I want to try to do it all with cubes, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand your ungrateful role, but there is now such a fine undertaking that I would very much like to ask the Secretary of State. I would also like to thank him very much for his commitment. It's about practice and theory. If the Secretary of State does so, how do we ensure that the longer life that we all do, hopefully in good health, also leads to a different way of looking at longer life, not only with scientists but also with people who live older and older? I'm changing too, because I'm getting older. I would also very much like to be part of this commitment, but I naturally assume that the Secretary of State will undertake to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u161	I could not have said it better; I agree with that. Times change, people change, and society changes. The place where people want to grow old also changes, as does the extent to which they themselves are able to point in this direction. The same applies to the demands they make for care and support. The question we raised at the beginning of this cabinet period was whether the long-term care we had at the time was still appropriate to that development. Did that long-term care satisfy the expectations that people have of it? Were we able to meet those expectations? Asking the question is also partly to answer it: it was not good enough or not good enough. The care and support of people at home, accessibility for people with disabilities and care in nursing homes were not good enough or good enough. Sometimes care was too anonymous and bureaucratic. Sometimes care was too organized from templates and standards. Sometimes the care was too institutional and too cumbersome. The care was mainly too impersonal. Too long has been thought in long-term care: we know what is good for you. There was right to be discontent. The workplace rightly called for more space and more confidence. People rightly asked and asked for more control over their care or, rather, their lives. In long-term care, the quality of life is largely determined by the care you receive. You're allowed to set high standards on that? Yes. Can you ask that care adapts to you instead of the other way around? Yeah, you can. In a way, the huge growth in the number of personal budgets is also a symptom of the fact that the care offered too often was not the care that people wanted. So it had to be different. The mission was: how can we do justice to those feelings of discontent? How can we organise care so that we listen more to the people who care and the people who use care? If people live at home until 85, you should organise the care and support more around their home and not from The Hague. If accessibility is not taken for granted, we need to change the law; I will come back to that in detail. If we find that nursing care is not good enough, we must take action. Organizing care closer to the people, organizing it from people rather than from systems and achieving quality through the eyes of patients and residents; these were and are the assignments for long-term care, so that care adapts to the people and not the other way around and so that the quality of care is more important than the institutions. The question that lies above this debate is whether it is working a bit. My answer is yes. We send the mammoth tanker, who is the care of course, in the right direction. Sometimes that goes squeaky and sometimes crunchy, always too slow, but also very sure. I think we are on the right track, because care should not only be organised differently. There was also a huge task in the financial sense. In a way, there might have been a time bomb at that point. The welfare state had to be resurrected in order not to let it break. The costs of caring for the elderly and people with disabilities are borne together. That concern is worth a lot to us and must remain worth a lot to us. We all have to be able to make it. We can't succumb to it. We'd better look forward now. Care is now more financially ready for the future and is at least sustainable to the next generation of elderly people who will call on it, in the certainty that care for each of them, regardless of the thickness of his or her wallet, remains accessible and in the certainty that we can continue to bear that cost of care together. In 2017, by the way, we will carry 28.7 billion together, compared to 27.5 billion in 2013. So much has changed. To my taste, we slowly but surely see the first improvements. More than ever, we manage to listen to people who need support at home. There are community teams working all over the place that come on the floor with the people. We've replaced forms and indications with people who come to talk to you and you can look them in the eye. Those district teams are there in every municipality and in every neighborhood, day in, day out, so that care close is not just paper wish thinking, but slowly but surely becomes reality. Of course things don't always go well. That too is a matter of falling and getting up. But it does happen. Of course, someone doesn't cheer when he or she hears from the district team that he or she gets less hours of domestic help. But I also spoke to a man who celebrated his 80th birthday and had a city official visit. He was asked if the church could mean anything to him. That was not the case, but it indicates the movement of anonymous care on request to personal care nearby. It can be as simple as that. I speak to doctors who tell me that they have had more coordination with the municipality in the past year than in the ten years before. Or take loneliness. Mr Krol referred to over 100 lonely funerals. What an awfully poignant image. But we also see that thanks to the decentralisations, municipalities now have the opportunity to address loneliness at local level, such as Amsterdam, The Hague and Rotterdam are doing. Or take Utrecht, which has had a positive external evaluation of the district teams and scores an 8 on client satisfaction. Where the government is closest to the people, you can also arrange more and more care, well-being, work and income in coherence. In order to strengthen care in the neighbourhood, we have arranged for the district nurse to make arrangements in consultation with you and your caregiver about what is the best support in your situation. I hear a lot of neighborhood nurses saying they got their job back a little bit. They're jealous of that abroad. Dutch neighbourhood nurses are flown in to teach about the way you organize care close to the people. I mentioned the caretaker for a while. Today is the Day of Mantelzorg. Let us all consider the sacrifice they make every day, albeit with love, but that does not make it any less difficult to care for and assist their loved ones. That sacrifice obliges us to strengthen the position of family care, to enlighten the carers themselves and to connect them with professional care, as we did in the Wmo. After all, if people stay home longer, more of their surroundings will be asked. The caregiver therefore has his own position in the conversation with the municipality about appropriate support. That's how we arranged it, and that's what's important. It is at least as important that someone pays attention to the caregiver himself and that the question is asked: how are you actually doing? That's why Mezzo and the VNG are working together to make a better conversation with the caregiver. That is incredibly important, because we must be very careful with our carers, who are irreplaceable. Mrs Keijzer and Mr Van der Staaij rightly drew attention to them on this Day of Mantelzorg. I've come to speak in detail about the nursing homes. But isn't it a huge cultural change that after the development of the dormitory to the multi-bedroom and from there to the single room we are making the move to the living room? That we also consider the most intensive care not from the institution but from the quality of life of the resident? Maybe after ten years of discussion we are going to do more, because Mrs Agema brought a 2009 debate to a quality standard and now talk about a staff guidance board? And that we also replace lists here with quality through the eyes of the resident? On healthcarekaartnederland.nl of the Patient Federation Netherlands, the average score that people themselves give is now 7.6. I am well aware that changes also bring with them a feeling of uncertainty. Is there gonna be good care for me later? Can I afford it all? What if I get caught by the demons of dementia myself? Is there a good place for me to feel at home? All these reforms and changes, all of which are not and will not be easy, are, I am sure, creating a new era, including in long-term care. This is a time when people themselves are more at the forefront of care, in which patients, clients, residents and their loved ones are more listened to, and in which involvement and connection in society become more solid values rather than just guaranteed law. Is it all that well arranged everywhere? Are we where we want to be? Of course not. There is still an incredible amount of ground to gain on bureaucracy, so that there is more time for care. We need to keep municipalities sharp if they're gonna go to hell. The Netherlands is not accessible to every wheelchair and we know that there is still a long battle to be fought in the nursing homes. But I am also convinced that we have gone the right way with everyone involved. For one thing is still quite certain for me: there is still a great deal of work to be done. If we continue to give space to the many people who work with heart and soul to improve the well-being of our elderly and of people with disabilities, we are on our way to finally giving our care new meaning. I too would like to express my appreciation and admiration for everyone who does the real work with such passion outside the square kilometer of The Hague. Professionals or volunteers: we owe them a great deal of thanks. I have already talked about the nursing homes and with that also about the program Dignity and pride. When the uncertainty about getting older and the uncertainty about whether there is good care for the elderly for you and who is ready for you, meet somewhere, it is in nursing care. We all know nursing homes that you're wondering if you'd like or be able to live there yourself. And we all know nursing homes that should be the norm for the sector. But even the best concern of the world does not change the fact that we should not think of ending our lives without recognizing our own loved ones, without knowing our child, without being able to eat and swallow or without being able to go to the bathroom. The final phase of our lives is not something to look forward to if that's the perspective. We cannot eliminate the suffering and uncertainty associated with dementia, ageing and ultimately dying. It is precisely the vulnerability of these people that places a heavy responsibility on the government, on politics and on us to do everything in our power to assist these elderly people. Mr. Chairman. I've been Secretary of State for four years. You know that nursing care is very close to my heart, as is your room. This is where personal and political matters affect each other very much. Sometimes they're even intertwined. Every MP present here, everyone in the gallery here or at home has a grandfather, a grandmother, a father, a mother, an old aunt or an elderly neighbor struggling with the concerns of aging. The responsibility I feel for this dossier is therefore great. My ambition to take steps here struggles every day with my impatience, because real improvements also take a long time. The way in which politics handles this is very important. I understand and agree that a so-called "black list" leads to the call for hard action. At the same time, people in the workplace can expect more from us. In my view, Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Volp were quite right to point this out. People in the workplace do the very hard and difficult work. They may have the most important task in society, namely caring for our elderly people in the very last stage of their lives. They may expect us not only to be indignant about incidents, but also to ensure that the bad examples are seen as loving care in many places and that the quality of life is worked very hard through the eyes of the residents. Every time an incident is magnified, it affects the people who do their stinking best every day, right in their hearts. They feel addressed, often misunderstood and understandably affected in their profession. For they see every day that in a nursing home there is also plain grief about the farewell of a neighbor, about the loss of dignity and about the fact that even the most loving care will never take away that feeling. Of course, we have a great responsibility to name and address incidents. If, however, the work of these people is wrongly highlighted, we are not on the right track, as Mr Potters pointed out. Then we alienate the people in the workplace from us, while they take care of our elders. They should be able to say with pride: I work in a nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u162	Are you done with this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u163	Not quite yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u164	Then we'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u165	I'm trying to be a man of nuance. I want to name and correct abuses. I want to give good examples and perspective for the future. In my plan to improve nursing care, I try to act from that nuance. Hugo Borst's call to join forces to further improve nursing care and to work together on it has been taken from my heart as well. That is why we are developing a quality standard and a staff guide. That is why we want other supervision and more stringent supervision of safety. That is why we want fewer rules, fewer protocols and more confidence. Dignity and Proudness is about the quality of life. Pride employees listen to residents and loved ones. Furthermore, it is also a question of good governance. I am going to go on about good governance, so perhaps this is the time to give Mr Potters the opportunity to make his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u166	If you do your thing, I'll do mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u167	That's our deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u168	I think the Secretary of State has spoken fine words. There must be a balance between the good examples and before them, and not run away from the responsibility we have for the bad examples. I still have a question about the latter. The Secretary of State says: 'I think it is very nice that we should do everything we can to put an end to these bad examples.' In the written answers to the questions I have asked, the Secretary of State says that the inspection should intervene if necessary and that it should give a clue. We know that this has happened in one institution, but there are still eight institutions whose inspection says that care is not in order. The Secretary of State has the legal capacity to give an indication to the inspection if necessary. At the end of January, four nursing homes must have taken really big steps. Will the Secretary of State undertake that if the inspection does not give the indication that we all consider necessary, he will do so on the basis of his ministerial responsibility, because at the end of January it must be in order with those four nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u169	There is, of course, not for nothing, but we also have the inspection for a reason. I have no reason to doubt that the inspection will take the measures it considers necessary to put things in order and put things in order. Maybe I can make another comment on this point. Very often it is not the problem that the inspection requires a particular measure and that it is not followed up. Then I should say: there is not enough action and now I have to take a moment. If that were necessary, that authority would be there for a reason. The inspection is not so much concerned about whether something improves after supervision, as this is often the case, as can be read in the inspection reports. However, the inspection is rightly concerned about the fact that there is often improvement, but the question is whether this improvement can be secured. So it is not so much an indication of improvement, because in almost all cases I dare to say: in all cases it will be, but the bar of inspection is actually higher. That bar is not that supervision works, but that there is no improvement due to supervision; it has to come naturally from the institution. That's our biggest challenge. I have no reason to be vigilant if the inspection is doing her job properly. The inspection is doing an excellent job. This competence is not for nothing, but inspection measures are generally effective in 100% of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u170	I understand that, but the Secretary of State says that in four nursing homes, it really needs to be in order by the end of January. They were given time until the end of January. I would now like to assure you that if the Secretary of State fails to achieve that improvement and the inspection may hesitate to go ahead, says: I will, because I want to ensure that the four nursing homes are actually in order by the end of January. I am also saying this because I have already said in the first term that sometimes the fist has to be put on the table. That's what the Secretary of State has to do. For once he must say that there must be an end to the disorder in those four nursing homes and that if the inspection does not intervene, he will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u171	There is a small suggestion in that remark, namely that there is no banging on the table. I would like to draw your attention to the monitoring carried out by the inspection. I would like to draw attention to the indications that have been given, not only in the light of the discussions we have had, but for many years now. I refer to the changes in the administration of nursing and nursing homes in the past period. Then you can't say that no measures have been taken, can you? Therefore, my reaction is that I have no reason to believe that the inspection would hesitate to proceed where necessary. Of course, I have that authority and I will use it when necessary, but the inspection will take action where necessary. If they are insufficient, they may also provide guidance that runs from an administrative constraint to the replacement or addition of a driver. I've told the Chamber about that before. These are the instruments we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u172	Just a brief word: it is only one commitment. You admit that you are going to use the ministerial responsibility at the end of the day and you yourself will give that indication if the inspection does not accept its responsibility for any reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u173	That ultimum remedium is there, but I have no reason to believe that the inspection is not doing its job very well. This also applies to cases where it is necessary to take further action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u174	The Secretary of State presents a nuanced picture of nursing care as a whole. I recognize that, too. However, we also get the e-mails and notes when visiting that a lot of people in nursing home care, staff, complain about the enormous workload and run into management saying that this is all because of the cuts from The Hague. What is the reaction of the Secretary of State when he receives such e-mails or speaks to the people who come up with these complaints?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u175	I'll get to that in my "good governance" block. In practice, you see an enormous diversity. That is what you said in your contribution. You can see nursing homes that are perfectly capable of providing good care with the existing resources and with sufficient space for the staff. Sometimes you see that this is not the case. The good institutions could be the norm for everyone. That is why we have also proposed a quality standard and a staff guidance board. That is why we have proposed to convert supervision into view of quality through the eyes of the residents. I think these are very important steps, in addition to the attitude of the board. I'll tell you what I need to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u176	I am thinking of the specific example of the woman who said: you should know how much dementing elderly I am solely responsible for. In education, we also do not have precise rules for how many students should be in a class, but there is a modest variation in that. I have the impression that the variation in the nursing home sector is very large. Does that practice really change, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u177	That's why we're coming up with that staff guidance. The beauty of this is that it is not a fixed standard that you can use regardless of the care gravity of the group. There is a qualitative reasoning as to what is needed in the different groups. With the dementia of the elderly, you have to make sure that there is always someone on the group who understands dementia. If there is to be care, it is not intended that there is no one else, because there will be no supervision. The beauty of this guide, which is now being developed and incorporated into the quality standard on 1 January, is that it is a qualitative, substantive line. The question is what is needed for which groups in long-term care. How can we ensure that the variation, which sometimes still exists, is reduced, as in all other sectors of society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u178	I'll come to the cuts. Sometimes I hear that there have been huge cuts in nursing care in the last period. This is what it was supposed to be all about. Does the Secretary of State have an idea of the budget at the beginning and the budget at the end? Then we get a bit of a real picture of that in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u179	You have seen in my written answer to the budgetary questions that there is an increase in the budget, if you add it all together. Each year, approximately 400 million growth areas have been allocated to long-term care. About half of them go to the nursing homes. Settings often have mixed functions. These are nursing homes, nursing homes and also home care. It's all a bit messed up. When you focus on the nursing homes and look at the budgets, you see that a demo growth has been awarded every year. By the way, perhaps I am working on a 'pre-emptive operation' in the direction of Mrs Bergkamp, and I am sorry to say that, Mr President, we must not only look at growth as a result of demography, but also at a change in care gravity. We also see in recent years that the care gravity changes. That is why I asked the Dutch Healthcare Authority to look into this too. We should not just look at the demographics, for which much growth space is granted. By the way, there is more growth in it than just in the area of demographics. We also need to look more structuralally at whether the care gravity or the composition changes. On these grounds, too, we must look at the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u180	I agree with the SGP colleague's questions, but I still have a question about talking positively about the nursing home sector. We know there's a shortage of nurses, especially in the Randstad. The personal story of the Secretary of State is very appealing to me. I do still see a bottleneck to make people choose nursing care. There has been a labour market campaign that has been stopped. What concrete steps does the Secretary of State intend to take to make the profession of nurse or caregiver in the nursing home sector more attractive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u181	That is a very valid point. If Mrs Bergkamp is okay with it, I will come back to that in detail, because I have a separate block of 'work market', in which I would like to address this point in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u182	It's kind of the day of the cubes. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u183	Mr President, in the knowledge that it may not be helpful, but perhaps to ease your work: I am now dealing with nursing homes, then I would like to talk about the UN Convention, then decentralisation, then the labour market and finally on a number of issues relating to the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u184	The Secretary of State rightly calls for the way in which the discussion should take place here, namely more about the patterns rather than about the incidents. We have an important task to do here. The intervention team has been deployed for the situation at Careyn. In July we held a debate on the list of inspections, in which I tabled a motion on the intervention team in relation to the houses that indicate that they are running into things and that are not yet in the danger zone but are afraid to get into it. Can the Secretary of State state state what's going on with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u185	We will be discussing this in detail in a week or two, but part of the Dignity and Proud programme is indeed not only the forced intervention team where necessary. A number of experts in the sector can help institutions if they say they need external assistance on acute or non-urgent issues. Some 50 institutions with acute issues are now using them. Many more institutions are working on projects in a different way. In my letter on the progress of Dignity and pride I reported it. But it is quite right to note that we should not only focus on forced intervention teams. On the contrary, we should also enable the sector and perhaps facilitate the use of expertise, intervision and intervention among ourselves, because institutions simply state that. Mr. Chairman. I just said that proud employees, quality of life and listening to residents are very important elements. Good governance is, too. Another quality in nursing care is also going to mean something for the board rooms, because the times when it was or had to be about solvency and real estate may be a bit over. The driver who is going to carry the new time knows the workplace, knows what his or her residents are asking for, creates space and trust for employees and wants to spend as many euros as possible on care and not on overhead or administrative burdens. Therefore, it is good that the Dutch Healthcare Authority and the Health Care Inspectorate will pay more attention to good governance in their supervision. A separate document has been drawn up setting out what good governance and good governance means for supervision. Therefore, it is good that the healthcare sector responds with a new code of good governance and that a driver test is provided through accreditation. I would particularly like to look at the code of good governance as to whether it is sufficiently sharp, for example in the light of the recommendations of the Halsema Committee. To paraphrase it, the committee said: it may not be about all kinds of rules; the moral compass of the board must be good. I welcome the fact that the sector itself is working on this principle-based code of good governance, but I would like to look very closely at whether it is sharp enough in the light of this discussion and the discussion we are having in the Chamber. A number of questions have been asked about the UN Convention and the disabled. Sometimes making a law is the beginning...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u186	I see an interruption by Mr Potters on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u187	We have often had discussions here on the quality framework and guidance staff to be operational and to be maintained from 1 January. Many of my colleagues, from the SP, the PVV, and perhaps we too are somewhat sceptical about the fact that we are going to have a handle again and that we are not going to work towards it. In fact, it just doesn't maintain it. Can the Secretary of State undertake to comply with the 2:8 standard, perhaps it will not be possible for the guidance and staff standard to be so harsh that, at the moment when nursing homes do not comply, we are not having another debate here about nursing homes that are on a list but can actually be dealt with immediately? There must now be an end to the non-binding nature of such agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u188	That's exactly why we're doing it. It is not for nothing that we say that there will be a quality standard and a staff guide, which must be worked out. The Healthcare Institute is now using its perseverance to bring this to testable products. The change is that we are now saying that the quality standard and the staff guidance board, if we agree on it in this way, are at the same time the framework within which the inspection exercises control. For the care buyers, this framework can provide guidance for the care purchase and for client councils and internal supervision as an important guide to what it means for the institution. The answer is: yes, it will then become a touchstone, even in the supervision by the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u189	Can I conclude, then, that in six months' time we will not have another discussion about the great differences between the good and the bad nursing homes? Do we really see that not only the eleven, but also the others, who may be left behind, are catching up in the short term, precisely because we have that guidance, because it is maintained and because we say that it is no longer acceptable that there are such large differences?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u190	That's what I expect. I also say that we must always continue to discuss what is good quality. It's not a picture. It's a movie. In two years' time we may be talking about a different, even higher quality bar. That is also why we are now anchoring the quality requirements, which are also maintained, which makes it clear to everyone what the standards are. So the answer is yes. And does everyone at the same time meet all these requirements at the same rate? Let us hope so, but we are talking about a sector where we are now saying that we are going to improve quality in a structural way. We are going to do this on the basis of quality standards and a staff guide so that everyone knows where they stand. So the sector also knows what it is doing, because it will simply be tested and enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u191	Now Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u192	It's very nice that everyone will know what to meet. Then they don't stick to it. What do you do? I've argued for a restraining order. That means that people who make a mess of it are no longer allowed to work in healthcare for a number of years. Why doesn't the Secretary of State embrace that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u193	In my written reply it has been read that a number of matters have already been settled. In the event of maladministration, an administrative ban may already be imposed for five years. It's already taken care of. At the time when there is a ill-functioning director, the supervisory board of another institution in which someone comes can also consider whether to do so. The supervisory boards also have their own responsibility. We have therefore formally settled a number of issues. A number of cases are settled in bankruptcy, a number of cases are settled in maladministration, the inspection can supervise them and the supervisory boards have a great responsibility to attract directors to whom they have something and to look at the credentials of a possible new chairman of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u194	We at Alliade have seen how that works in practice. And I wouldn't say that if we didn't see this much more often. That's why I pleaded for a restraining order. The Secretary of State says it's settled, but I understand from his answer that this applies only to foundations. Why not wider? Something has to be broken here. I really think that it is now too much of drawing up quality standards, talking about them and laying down them with supervisory boards, but what if that doesn't work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u195	In my reply, I indicated what the instruments are that are regulated in the Civil Code in a formal sense. What happens in the event of maladministration? What happens in the event of bankruptcy? When is there a restraining order that means you can't do anything for the next five years? But besides that, we just have our oversight. I just kept a whole story about good governance. If a driver does not work, we have had that debate a few times already, then there are instruments that can be applied, including by the inspection. The whole system of what is regulated by the law in a formal sense and of the instruments we have in the sphere of supervision gives, in my opinion, sufficient opportunities to intervene where there is bad governance or maladministration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u196	We've been asking for ten years to break the career of dysfunctional managers. The Secretary of State says he has a whole set of tools to do something about it, but he doesn't. In practice, we see every time those drivers have to leave somewhere, get a large exit premium and then go back to being a long-term intern at the next institution. How can it be that the Secretary of State has a whole set of instruments with which he can deal with business, when we see everyday practice... I will not mention the names, but we have very recently seen a number of blacklisted institutions, where drivers appear again who have been thrown out elsewhere. How is it that the Secretary of State's instruments are apparently not sufficient? Why doesn't he just sit on his hands and expand the instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u197	That's because, of course, you can't put everything and everyone together. In this Chamber, we have a responsibility to discuss with each other whether we have sufficient instruments in laws, regulations and supervision to intervene where there is wrongdoing of drivers or maladministration or whatever. There is a great responsibility of the supervisory boards, which are primarily responsible in internal supervision to ensure that there are good drivers, to prevent bad drivers entering and to take action. That is the system we are responsible for. If there's an incident somewhere or if it goes wrong somewhere, can't we say it's wrong in the whole sector? We can't tell each other that, can we? That would do injustice to all those people who are working incredibly hard every day to make sure that things are going well. Wherever it goes wrong, action must be taken. If we do not intervene unjustly, we have the supervision to see that, but we do not allow everything and everyone else to be treated equally on this issue either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u198	I'm not doing that at all. The Secretary of State is pulling a whole bunch of death-killers together here. We are talking about something very concrete. Then let the Secretary of State take a look at those ten, eleven institutions that are blacklisted. What drivers are in there now? Where did they come from? In practice, we see that the carousel of dysfunctional managers is just going crazy. They get kicked out of Setting A because they're dysfunctional. They get a large departure bonus, which you can pay nurses at the bed of and a few years or a few months later they're an expensive interger at the next care facility. And that just goes on and on. The Secretary of State says he has enough instruments, but he doesn't. At least let him do something about those double hats. With an amendment from the SP in the First Chamber, we have arranged for the number of side jobs to be reduced to three, but you can see that they are simply advisory posts at the Ministry and at the same time are commissioners. Why isn't the Secretary of State gonna do something about that first? I would say: Secretary of State, do something about it that drivers in care who already have the maximum number of side jobs do not also get a nice advisory position at VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u199	It really has to be my heart that we should be careful here again to talk in general. We have measures that we can take if there is maladministration or bankruptcy with directors' liability. We have the Top Income Standards Act, which regulates not only income, but also redundancy compensation. The cabinet did all that. We have a new supervisory framework for good governance, in which we clearly define the quality requirements to be met by a driver. The sector creates a governance code. We're gonna do a driver's test with accreditation. Then Mrs. Agema can't claim nothing's going to happen. I do not think it is right to have judgments in this Chamber about how a driver works and to say that we all know what is going on. There are tools for this to be applied. In practice, we also see that this is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u200	Mrs. Agema, I heard you say outside the microphone that you can't name names. If you wish, you can, of course, mention the names of the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u201	I won't mention the names now, because I've been doing that for ten years and I've been getting mad for ten years because I shouldn't. But for ten years, we've been seeing the same names coming back. They even get nice consulting positions at VWS. VWS has to figure it out for once and arrange it for itself!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u202	Secretary of State, do you need to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u203	I didn't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u204	I read in the letter 'I also saw it in reply to Mr Potters's questions on this subject that the Secretary of State considers the legal provisions adequate. In order to get a closer look at this, I would ask him if he can give an overview of how often certain possibilities have been applied in the past period. The picture that people in that sector go from job to job and from interim to advisory work is very damaging. If these legal possibilities exist, we also need to know whether they are being applied. The fact that they're there isn't enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u205	The instruments are here. If the inspection concludes that there is no good governance, bad governance or malpractice, will it take action at that time? It is too easy to say: we notice something at a club that is on the list; that must be up to the driver and that means that... We have to be very careful about that. I have said that, in my opinion, we have sufficient instruments both in the formal sense and in the supervisory sense. If it is on the agenda, the inspection will have the opportunity to take action against it. The number of times it has occurred does not, of course, say anything about whether it is much or little. Each year the inspection shall give an overview of the monitoring it has carried out and shall also give the best possible picture of the way in which it has carried out that monitoring. I can ask the inspection to indicate in the next overview what kind of measures have been taken. I'm fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u206	Under Rule 56 of the Rules of Procedure, I give Mrs Agema the opportunity to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u207	Mr President, I am limited in my function as a Member of Parliament because I am not allowed to mention names here. I have done so in the debate on Alliade, because at that time I clearly mentioned a name. The Secretary of State now claims that what I'm saying isn't true. I really think that is a limitation of my role as a Member of Parliament. I can't say the name. If I do, I'm gonna get pissed off, but the Secretary of State can say it's not. I am referring to the debate on Alliade, because I mentioned that name in it. I expect that we will talk in the subsequent debate on Alliade about the double-hat network and the person I mentioned because he has and collects these double functions. I don't want this guy working in that advisory position for VWS anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u208	The personal fact is noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u209	The Secretary of State states that he can send an overview of the possibilities of the IGZ to the Chamber. I would actually like to have an overview of all the legal possibilities he mentions in the reply. I would also like to know how many times they have been applied, precisely to make sure that they are not paper tigers. In this way, it is useful for us, because we can then see whether it works, whether it is sufficient and whether what is possible is being applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u210	I will ask the inspection to report in the annual report on the monitoring activities on what measures have been taken and how many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u211	The Secretary of State indicates that there will be a new governance code and that he will see if it can be tightened up. I am very much in favour of this, because it does not affect a driver who does not comply with the governance code. He can just remain a member of all kinds of organizations. I won't call them by name. Is the Secretary of State prepared to argue that it should have an impact on membership of certain interest groups if a director fails to comply with the governance code?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u212	I'm in favour of that, too. In my discussions with the branches, I understand that they are also in favour of linking it to the membership structures of the various trade associations. We will now have to wait for the governance code to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u213	I'm glad that's gonna happen, hopefully soon. We are, of course, talking about the drivers here, but I also think it is important to emphasise another subject that just as quickly passed the review. A lot of procedural things have been put into effect in the past period, but the outcome may also be that there is a problem with pricing and the budget. Is the Secretary of State prepared to get that sharp and, if necessary, to put butter on the fish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u214	Yeah, I'm sure I'm willing to. I have also written before in the context of Dignity and Proud that I do not want to run away from that discussion. That is why we have come up with a quality standard and a staff guidance board, which not only have procedural significance, but I would like to say that in reply to Mr Potters' question, of course, there must also be consequences, otherwise you will not have to draw up these things. I also asked the Healthcare Authority to carry out a cost check to see if there are any changes to that, and whether we can expect them to have an impact on the way we set our rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u215	That was indeed the answer to the question of whether the desirable situation could also be considered when charging. When will the outcome of that investigation be complete?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u216	In the first half of 2017, but I say that out of my head, because I'm not quite sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u217	That's a rather generous indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u218	In the first six months, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u219	Perhaps you could clarify that in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u220	I know this Secretary of State as someone who wishes to formulate carefully and chooses his words carefully. I may not speak with the wind force 10 with which Mrs Agema always speaks, but she does have a point. She really has a point when she talks about a hard-working sector that doesn't want to make any improvements, while big mistakes are being made and things are really not going well in some respects, even though I always say that there are good examples too, and about a carousel of drivers who do not want to learn from their mistakes. I would like a Secretary of State who is on the one hand for good nursing homes, but on the other hand is also tough on this kind of driver who doesn't want to learn. I'd like to hear from this Secretary of State that he's like this. I would like him to say that there is also a driver here and he does not accept that in this sector, in which people are working with such vulnerable people, there is not much to be done when necessary; I do not care whether the inspection is going to do so or whether I am going to do so myself, but it is going to happen, because these drivers do not belong in this sector. We have a duty to say this here, also since Mrs Agema has been right to hold this debate for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u221	I would like to make a few comments on this. I have said for a reason that the quality of care is not only about how we deal with quality standards and staff councils, but also with the boardroom and the demands we make to directors. There will therefore be a new supervisory framework at the NZa and the inspection to see what good governance is and how you can maintain and monitor it. The sector is, quite rightly, also coming up with a code of good governance and we also have a driver test with accreditation. If we find out something's going on, we can intervene. That will happen, but we have agreed carefully on the rules of the game. We can't just say: we think a driver is bad, so we have to intervene. We will have to do so carefully and through the rules in this rule of law. You can actually distinguish between two discussions: firstly, the discussion of whether we have sufficient instruments, which I think is the case, and secondly, the discussion of whether the instruments are being applied where necessary. The latter must of course be done, if that is what Mr Potters wants to hear from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u222	Fine, but then I don't want to see the same drivers of the eleven nursing homes in which there are serious abuses participating in projects of Dignity and pride. These abuses must have consequences. The Secretary of State must be able to say: sorry, your nursing home is not participating, because your driver does not meet the standards that we believe belong to a good nursing home sector. We don't have to be non-committal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u223	Mr Potters, this is going to be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u224	There is a multitude of problems, even though I run the risk of you finding me too nuanced again, Mr President. These problems may sometimes have to do with poor governance, and then something has to happen, but they can also sometimes have to do with the labour market, for example the extent to which staff can be recruited quickly or a highly changing labour force. Here too, it is important not to talk in general by saying: we are seeing a problem and this is the solution. We need to look at whether we have a good toolbox, and we need to ask ourselves how we can intervene adequately in the areas where action is needed. That's the essence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u225	If that leads to nothing at the end of the day, I feel a co-signatory here and perhaps even a majority for my motion on a ban on administration. So that's good. I have a question about the written reply of the Secretary of State at my request to comment on the Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers manifesto on a point-by-point basis. The Secretary of State refers to his letter of 4 July, but this manifesto was said by me on 24 October. As far as I am concerned, this is not enough. Before we have a general discussion on 17 November, does the Secretary of State still wish to discuss these ten points on a point-by-point basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u226	We can do that. We can also do this in the debate that we are going to have on this subject in two weeks' time. That sounds good to me. I am very prepared to do so when we have the debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u227	Do I hear a 'yes' and do we get a written response to those ten points? I think it is important to establish that, because the answer from the Secretary of State is a little mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u228	Wouldn't this be a wonderful subject for the debate? I'm not sure I should do this in writing again. We had a debate on the letters I sent. We can debate this with each other, can't we? I am very willing to respond more fully to that manifesto. I didn't say it was taken from my heart for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u229	Written?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u230	If that's what the Chamber wants, that's fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u232	Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have also been raised in this debate about the UN Convention and the disabled. Making a law is sometimes the beginning of a great change. Sometimes a law also marks the end of a long battle. Only very sometimes do these two come together. That was the case with the UN Convention. The marking of the end of a long battle and the hope of a great change made that law so special. The confirmation that people with disabilities see in this that there really is a place for them in society is very important. I am well aware that we have an expensive duty to live up to the ambitions we all share. The ambition is for general accessibility to become the norm. That's not noncommittal. On the contrary! General accessibility is the standard from 1 January 2017. That is what we have laid down in the law. That's the anchor point. It has been said in the Chamber that it may proceed gradually and that it may begin with simple means. Mr Van der Staaij has tabled an amendment on this subject and has asked me to indicate at AMvB what is meant by 'gradual' and'simple'. That AMvB is now in consultation. We have also agreed that an implementation plan will be put in place, in which we will continue to work with stakeholders from the sector on how this is handled in practice. We have explicitly agreed that we also involve experience experts. So it's a three-stroke. A standard is laid down in the law. In the AMvB we explain what is "gradual" and "simple." In the implementation plan, we work with the stakeholders in the sector on how this is done in practice. That's the anchor point. That is not without obligation, because in the AMvB, which is not yet there because it is now in consultation, it says that we can make further rules if progress in certain areas is not considered sufficient. That stick behind the door is very important. I also see that all reactions ask: how does the AMvB relate to that implementation plan; is that not too non-binding and should we not introduce more anchor points? I hear and see that, too. Indeed, the link between the plan of approach and the AMvB is very important to achieve that ambition. I would like to take a very serious look at the reactions of the consultation round. Of course I have contact with Each one (in) and We Standing Up! I recently agreed with Pauline Gransier that we should look at how to respond to the concerns expressed. Of course I will do so together with them, because we share the same ambition: the Netherlands must and will become accessible to everyone. I have no doubt, therefore, that we will get out of this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u233	Did you say everything you intended to say about the UN Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u234	I would like to make a few comments on the plan for people with disabilities in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u235	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u236	First of all, in the debate on the UN Convention, we said that the standard of general accessibility must be established. A number of groups said: yes, but we need to record it in an AMvB. Now there is an AMvB, but the cabinet says: yes, but we are putting it exactly into the implementation plan. So it gets weaker and weaker. An AMvB is lower legislation and an implementation plan has little or no legal effect at all. This is not the way we want to proceed here. General accessibility must be a tough standard and must therefore already be regulated in legislation, at least in the AMvB. I want to hear the Secretary of State's promise that he will take care of that now, not in that implementation plan, but in this AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u237	Before we are on the wrong track: the standard of general accessibility is already in the law that the Chamber has adopted. It also states that general accessibility can be achieved gradually and easily. That's what the AMvB's about. The AMvB no longer needs to lay down the standard of general accessibility, as it is in the law. The AMvB regulates the further clarification of "gradual" and "simple." In the implementation plan, we will examine how to achieve the general accessibility standard with sector-by-sector people. This will vary from sector to sector. For the public transport sector, it will be different from for the catering sector. That way we can make agreements with those parties. It's not about the norm, because it's already in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u238	Then let me define it more clearly. The AMvB defines the standard in the law. The moment you fill that in very weakly in the AMvB we let it come to self-regulation, it must cost little. You actually say how you want to fill it out. People who have to deal with this do not know what they are doing. They'll think, "Okay, then I don't have to do too much about it." You should refer in the AMvB to all the concrete standards we have already had, such as the Accessibility Handbook and the ITT standards. There are so many different standards; you should mention them here. If you don't, then all of that is gone and that AMvB is de facto a decline compared to what we already had. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that the AMvB will be a reinforcement and that there will be a concrete standard. Does he want to promise that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u239	In dealing with the law, we agreed that the concrete standards and timetables would be developed with the different target groups and the different sectors. The standard is not set in the AMvB, because we have enshrined it in the law. I am very sensitive to the fact that if this is not sufficiently known and seen, we need to check whether the AMvB meets the expectations associated with it. I don't want to have a discussion about the norm. The standard must be legally anchored and the AMvB must lead to the standard being strengthened and not weakened. I am very willing to look at these comments, but let us not discuss the general accessibility standard. Nor should that discussion be called upon by the AMvB. The standard is enshrined in the law and the AMvB makes clear how the terms "gradual" and "simple" are interpreted. Of course, we are going to work with the sector to ensure that the impact by sector takes place in times, standards and so on. I notice that the feeling is that the AMvB would be a retrograde step. The opposite is true. I am very sensitive to that point, because that impression should never be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u240	Mrs Voortman's words were taken from my heart. The only possible conclusion is that the AMvB that is now on the table should be removed. How could it happen that this AMvB is there and that it has no support for people who have a disability? That there hasn't even been talk to organizations, even though they've been promised? This simply is not enough. This is non-binding. That's the thread of the consultation round. Is this AMvB going to leave the table or at least radically upside down in order to provide the clarity that we all really need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u241	We don't have that consultation round for nothing. It's to make sure that if we make an AMvB, everyone can respond to that as well. In my proposal to the Chamber, I can take as much account as possible of the comments made in the field. That is why we are talking about this now. So you can expect me to take the results of the consultation and process it, and you will make a proposal for an AMvB, which hopefully everyone says is a good one. Again, that AMvB should not lead to a feeling that the norm is weakened. The general accessibility standard in the law is there. It will be developed in the field of application and implementation together with a wide range of experience experts and the sectors needed to do so. I'm very willing to look at that AMvB if it's not right. But let us also establish procedurally that the AMvB is not yet there. He's in consultation. Sectors respond to it. You're already telling me at the consultation stage that I need to change him. I think the consultation period was closed yesterday. I must now, with the results of the consultation, ensure that there is a good AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u242	The consultation was closed last Monday night. There were almost 600 reactions. The common thread in that was that it was too noncommittal. I hear from patient and client organisations that they are not involved in the preparation of the AMvB, although that was the expectation. I don't know where that sound comes from, but I can see the result. This AMvB is not in line with the Court's request for further clarification. It's become a weakness. I can see my support for the almost 600 responses that have been received. How could that happen, Secretary of State? It would have been a long time ago. Then we would not have had such a weak AMvB and could save us a lot of effort and work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u243	Now formally: the Chamber does not yet have an AMvB. There's an AMvB in the making. It's up for consultation. With the comments made on the basis of this, I propose to the Chamber. That proposal is not yet in place. I would ask you to allow me to process the responses that have come during the consultation phase of the AMvB, so that there will be an AMvB that I can send to the Chamber and the Chamber can assess whether it meets the requirements of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u244	I'll just say in between that AMvB means General Measure of Governance. It is a piece of paper on which the law is more detailed, I shall simply say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u245	It is right that the Secretary of State should stress the formal point that we are now in fact speaking as a parliament in a consultation, where we normally have our turn at the moment when there really is an AMvB to which we as a Chamber are entitled. Nevertheless, of course, we are all affected by organisations that are concerned about this. That is why it is a good thing that these concerns are expressed here as well. The Secretary of State has responded to the concern about the weakening. But I also taste a concern about narrowing. It is also true that it is not only about the accessibility of buildings, but also about whether websites and the like can be consulted in full width, and that in all the other areas this standard will eventually apply and will have to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u246	Quite right point. Of course it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u247	Can the Secretary of State say anything about the timetable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u248	In the legal process, we expressed the wish that the AMvB would be there on 1 January. That's still my timeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u249	You were going to make a few general comments on disability care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u250	Yes, that was, among other things, in response to a question that, I think, Mrs Bergkamp asked, namely: do we have sufficient attention for people with disabilities or disabilities? We talk a great deal about the elderly, but do we generally pay sufficient attention to the disabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u251	Apologies. I see one more interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u252	It ended so fast. I was still waiting on what the Secretary of State is going to do. One of the objections of all the people who have responded was: it is too general; it is not in line with the general comment, the general comment, with the treaty. They want that to become more part of that General Measure of Governance. Is that what the Secretary of State's gonna do? Will reference be made to general, measurable standards, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u253	The comment that's here now is that the consultation has just been closed. I'm going to process a proposal for an AMvB, which I'll then submit to the Chamber. I have also seen that there is a need to have those references. I'll look into it. I can't say anything about it right now. The consultation's just closed. I'm going to process the reactions now and make a further proposal. Hopefully that will lead to an AMvB that we all like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u254	If the Secretary of State had been a little smoother and it had been July or August, for example, then we could have said: we can see it. But it's only a few weeks before Christmas. This is too unclear for me. The Secretary of State says he's gonna look into it, but I need some more concrete points that the Secretary of State is gonna deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u255	Let's keep it clean. We agreed that there would be an AMvB, if possible on 1 January. It's in consultation now. All kinds of comments have been made. We're going to look at it and process it now. Then I'll submit an AMvB to the Chamber. Then the Court can make all kinds of comments. The consultation phase has just finished. I do not think it is right that we should say: this is, this is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u256	Now I hear the same thing for the fourth time. We're gonna stop doing that. You can fight that even further in the second term. The Secretary of State continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u257	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u258	The Secretary of State. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u259	Following a question from Mrs Bergkamp, I have drawn up a plan with the Association of Disabled Care Netherlands to further improve the quality of care for people with disabilities: the plan Working together to improve disability care. This concerns, among other things, the following points: to strengthen the position of the people concerned, to provide an appropriate response to the particular concern that multiple groups of people with disabilities have, and to equip professionals. That's what we're paying $13.2 million for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u260	I'm gonna have to interrupt. I'm sorry. Mrs Keijzer wishes to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u261	Point of order: I feel like I'm going into the woods. This provision will enter into force on 1 January, including the obligation to have an AMvB, so this is simply not possible. But I will come back to this in the second term, because in this way a very nice process, namely laying down a general accessibility standard in legislation, is gradually slipping away from us. This is too important for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u262	What is your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u263	That what the Secretary of State says is not correct. He says there's still endless time to do this. This provision shall enter into force on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u264	Point taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u265	In the context of the debate on the future of the disabled sector, I should also like to say something. I sent the plan of action I was talking about to the Chamber before the summer, but we haven't talked about it yet, so I look forward to discussing this with the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u266	I share this appeal from the Secretary of State, although it is a little unusual, that we as a Chamber should put this issue on the agenda and enter into rapid consultations. But I have a question about the extra care and the custom profile. That's gonna take a hell of a long time. I am not very satisfied with the answer given by the Secretary of State, because I have the impression that this result will only be taken up by the new cabinet. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u267	We do that as soon as possible, but precisely in the discussion about more care and customization we also exchanged that some groups and children are so specific that you also have to be careful when you arrange customization. We need to see how we can work it out, we need to do a good execution test and see what it will mean for the different groups. I attach great importance to this, and I think these groups have a right to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u268	Carefulness is fine, but can the Secretary of State indicate a deadline when the customised profile and the multi-care scheme will be sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u269	I will come back to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u270	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u271	I now come to the subject of decentralisation. 2015 was the year in which we asked the municipalities to ensure continuity. 2016 and 2017 are the years in which municipalities lay their own accents. That too cannot happen without discussion and without falling and standing up. That's good, too. There have been court rulings. I have always said that I would rather not, but it is a good thing that it can be done. Of course, there is still much to improve in this respect, for example the knowledge and understanding of and by the district teams. But there are also a number of comments to be made on this. First of all, we must realise that these decentralisations are a process of years. Take the Danes. They have come to the conclusion that it took them about seven years. Of course we're faster, because we've learned from their mistakes. We don't make them, but we might make other mistakes again. Still, you're talking about a very long time. When I talk to aldermen about how things are going, how we look at the future and what our agenda should be, aldermen of all political colors always say to me: give us some space and time now. If municipalities would do exactly the same as the Empire did, but with less money, then a child can count on his fingers that it will be less. That was not the intention either. Too many people have tried to make decentralisation equal to "sustainment," but the real synonym is "innovation" and actually even more "improvement." Those are not my words, those are the words of Alderman Jeroen Olthof from Zaandam, who recently said this to me. The idea of decentralisation, bringing care closer to the citizen, is correct. All residents with a need for care are known to the municipality and the local government is able to connect people and form a network. The healthcare package is now much more coherent than before. Those are not my words, it was Alderman Paul Blokhuis from Apeldoorn who recently pronounced this. The reforms bring a lot of different parties to the table, not to impose a blueprint from the city hall, but to work together to find a new solution. Those are not my words, but it was Alderman Victor Everhardt from Utrecht who said this. And alderman Hugo de Jonge from Rotterdam told me that for the first time he and his people got a good view of the people with disabilities in his city who got some kind of support. I think that we are getting closer to the problems everywhere in the country and that we are moving towards an integrated approach. I expect that this will also be reflected in the client satisfaction figures of the municipalities. Just as I expect all city councils to see where the municipality is on the budget. The Chamber has asked questions about the lower spending of municipalities in the social domain 2015. Yeah, that's a lot. After all the discussions about insufficient money, in the first year, 1.2 billion for Wmo and youth were not or have not yet been issued by municipalities. Such a large surplus, of course, raises questions. I will therefore, together with the VNG, dive into this very quickly. Let me add this: after the great attention we have had in recent years for the pennies, perhaps we can now pay more attention to the quality of care, which we are going to note at the top of every agenda. What do we expect from the municipalities? Mr Potters also made a number of comments. We expect the municipalities to invest in the social domain, to have good preventive policies and to make the most of the opportunities for doing so. All attention can and should be focused on good personalised support, assistance and care for all young people and older people who need it. It was perhaps in response to what I said that Mrs Voortman said: you are not going to say that there is always enough money. We have, of course, also agreed to this. We have agreed to periodically review how budgets relate to the development of demand, and whether the dividing lines between the Wmo, the Wlz and the Health Insurance Act should be drawn in the same way in the long term. All of that will happen. But let us not draw all kinds of conclusions on the basis of a single figure in 2015. I note, however, that I have had a lot of discussions about whether municipalities have enough money. On the basis of this signal, which we all have to dive into, we have to look at how this is happening, what the underlying causes are and what this means for the years to come. That seems to me to be a very good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u272	You're turning into a new block?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u273	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u274	I am so sorry that there was no quote from a GroenLinks alderman, but that aside. Maybe that'll be in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u275	I've been looking for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u276	Well, then I guess you didn't look very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u277	You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u278	I have a feeling that Mrs Voortman is going to find out for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u279	Maybe it is. You're giving me ideas. I'm gonna go back to the 1.2 billion. I think it is very important and good that the cabinet, together with the VNG, should look at the causes of the fact that so much money has been left. Wouldn't it be logical that the cabinet doesn't say in advance that there is enough money? That was the first reaction of the cabinet; the letter on surpluses says that there would be enough money. It may also be that the money is not well distributed, or that municipalities may have asked for too high own contributions. There are plenty of explanations possible. Wasn't the cabinet a little premature to say that by definition there is no financial problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u280	I wasn't tempted to say there was a shortage of money. We have had a lot of discussions on the question of the budgets and their distribution. We have talked extensively with all the municipalities, with the VNG, about what is the best distribution. We used to do that historically and then on the basis of needs. We've been talking about that for a really long time. By the way, we made the agreement not to look at it year by year, plus and minus and then change it all again. Let's look at that in the longer term. If there is any money left in the first year or not yet spent, I think it is wise to know the seam of the stocking. The Chamber has also asked what exactly this means and what causes it has. I think that's very good. I have also indicated that we may now be able to talk a little less about whether there is too little money, but the more about the question to which the money is being spent and whether that is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u281	That's not exactly an answer to my question. Wouldn't it be better if you examined it first to see if it's too much or too little money? If I note that one municipality has money left over from the Wmo and the other municipality has a shortage of youth care, and if there are quite large differences between them, then that must be done first. The opinion that money is, by definition, enough should actually disappear to the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u282	I didn't say there was enough money, by definition. I have expressed the hope that, after all the discussions on money and distribution models, we will have to move forward with full speed to see what it is being spent on and what its causes are, so that we can learn from them for the future. I'm not gonna say in advance that there's always enough money. I am concerned long enough to know that those kinds of statements about care can often not be made, but I think it is okay to get into a slightly different phase. There's a budget. Let's see what it's spent on and what the problems are. But let's move forward with full speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u283	It is really bizarre what we are talking about. There have been huge cuts in decentralisation in this area and the municipalities are left with 1.2 billion. Look at all the trials that have been conducted by people to get their rights. Shouldn't the conclusion be that it was a crucial mistake to carry out this decentralisation without the right to care being properly anchored to avoid the large differences that have arisen between municipalities? It was also a mistake that the money is insufficient or not earmarked. Where is the money going now and should the right to care not have been better anchored in this decentralisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u284	I do not agree with Mr Van Gerven. Firstly, the WMO stipulates that municipalities are obliged to make appropriate arrangements for their citizens after careful examination. There's been a lot of discussion about that. That obligation to make an appropriate provision is simply laid down in the law and it applies. It doesn't matter if you have a lot or a little budget and if you have too little budget or budget. So that substantive touchstone is always in there. Secondly, if money is left in a few years, I am indeed in favour of looking together with the municipality to see how that is exactly what happened. Is that because she has been cautious or because other budgets have been expected in 2016 and 2017 to which the municipality has already responded; Mrs Voortman has asked a number of questions about this. It is very good to investigate this, but that does not affect what is stated in the law: regardless of the budget, citizens are entitled to appropriate provisions that need to be taken if they need help and support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u285	We can see that there is 1.2 billion left that the municipalities have not spent. We can also see that citizens in the country are extremely dissatisfied. Research carried out by the VNG shows that the majority believe that it is not in order; that is also what the Secretary of State has been able to see. Then why does the Secretary of State stop saying that he is happy at least that there is enough money? Why doesn't he do anything else? Surely it cannot be true that on the one hand people are being deprived of care, because that is obviously a fact, also in view of the large number of procedures and also that people are dissatisfied and that the right to care is not well anchored, while on the other hand the municipalities have so much money left? Where's that money going? Does that go to the general reserves? Is that earmarked for what it is intended for, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u286	Mr Van Gerven assumes that everyone is dissatisfied and that insufficient action is being taken. Has he looked at the client satisfaction figures of the municipalities, for example on waarstaatje gemeente.nl? Has he looked at how many provisions have been made? Has he seen how many provisions have been made that citizens say it is fine that they have been discussed with them? I also said that not everyone is satisfied. There is still a great deal to be done in the process. Someone who hears that his domestic aid is going down for a few hours, I have quoted that example in my speech, of course, does not say: that decentralisation is a nice system. I understand that, but you cannot say that the municipalities do not make appropriate provisions in this respect. Why wouldn't municipalities do that anyway? There are all aldermen of Mr Van Gerven's colour, who are still fewer than myself and of my colour and of all kinds of other political colours. With the WMO in hand, they make appropriate arrangements for their citizens. They're not gonna say, "I'm gonna go back and see if I can't do that." Where does it come from that statement that all this would not be good or that municipalities would not want to do so? If there is any budget left in any year, I agree that we should look at how that is done. Has one been too careful, is one pre-sorting for the coming years or can one do more to ensure that the money is spent? I am in favour of that, but let's not conclude that people do not have facilities, that they are dissatisfied and that municipalities do not do their best. That's not the issue, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u287	Three times I think it's okay, but the Secretary of State asked you a question. So you can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u288	I believe this is the third time. The money needs to be earmarked. Does the Secretary of State agree? And isn't it true that the administrators and the administrative elite say that things are going quite well and that it should be even better, but that we are on the right track, while the citizens think that things are not going well and that they have fallen sharply compared to before the introduction of the 2015 WMO? That's the reality, isn't it? Does the Secretary of State really want to face that and do he really want to solve this by ensuring that the money is earmarked and that the right to care is simply restored for those who need care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u289	In the interim, I urge both Members and the Secretary of State to avoid repetitions in the interruptions and the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u290	I have already answered the question about the right to care, namely that the WMO simply establishes that municipalities are obliged to make appropriate provision after careful examination for their citizens who need help and support. That legal duty is simply in the Wmo and applies regardless of the budget. We've talked about the ear tags before. We have deliberately said to each other: let us not identify different products or services, but let us give municipalities the freedom to make the best choices for their citizens within the social domain. Those choices differ locally. In Amsterdam it is different than in Sittard and vice versa. So it has been a very conscious choice to do so, because that is the essence of policy freedom. If every city with less money is going to do the same thing as the Empire, I already know what the outcome is. Luckily, that's not what congregations are doing either. Mr Van Gerven mentioned the "administrative elite" who felt that things were going well. Are all the aldermen of the SP who in their congregations are doing an incredible amount of work to bring the Wmo together now the "administrative elite" who doesn't know who lives among the citizens? I'm seriously gonna have to doubt that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u291	Mrs. Thick.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u292	Mr President, I am addressed to the aldermen of the SP. The aldermen of the SP, and many other aldermen too, are doing their best, but the aldermen of the SP do not say that everything is going great. Much remains to be done. The conditions for making it a success are simply insufficient and inadequate. I would say: take care of those good conditions, restore the right to care and ear tag that money now so that the municipalities actually have to spend the money on it for what it is intended to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u293	I speak to many aldermen of different political colours, including aldermen of the SP, who are indeed incredibly well-attended, strongly support this development and ensure that citizens are very well served in their municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u294	I have two brief questions about two organizations. I'll cut it in half. First of all, Fier Fryslaan. The Secretary of State stated in the written replies that there would soon be a discussion between Fier Fryslân and the VNG on the means. Now, however, there seems to be a misunderstanding. I hear that a sum of five tonnes, half a million, is wrongly decentralised to the central municipalities. There were agreements that it would continue to be financed within the Wlz. I'm not going to make any motions on this, but there's a lack of clarity. It seems that the agreements are not being complied with. Would the Secretary of State, instead of referring to the VNG, also like to speak with Fier Fryslân about this situation, so that the misunderstandings can be overcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u295	Of course, I'm always willing to talk to parties. But if there were now a misunderstanding between Fier Fryslân and the VNG, wouldn't it be very wise for Fier Fryslân and the VNG to speak with each other? That seems to me to be the right way forward, without me interfering with it now. If there is a misunderstanding, it can be eliminated very quickly, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u296	I'll send information to the Secretary of State. I think it would be a good idea for him to take some action on his own. My second question concerns another organization, Siriz.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u297	Can we cut that down a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u298	Yes. I got a letter from the Secretary of State about the conversation with Siriz. I'm happy about that. I also welcome the continuation of the amendment money. But I do see a downward trend in the budget as regards the amounts for Siriz. Is that down line off the track now? I hope not, because in that case I will have to ask for a ruling from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u299	We have some time, because before 2017, we secured it. We also said: let's see how that can be secured even better. Maybe we should not just talk about two organisations that have a very important and good lead role in this. I want to ensure the knowledge and skills of these organisations, I say in response to Mr Van der Staaij, but also look at what is the best way to achieve that guarantee after 2018. Are these two institutions involved, or should we look at it more broadly? I'd like to take a moment to do that. I said that in 2017 we will at least ensure that it can be continued. But I also said that we should use 2017 not only to see how we can secure that knowledge and skills, but also how we can ensure that the function that Siriz and Fiom have is more widely available in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u300	Municipalities have 1.2 billion left. The Secretary of State is going to investigate that. Does this research include those municipalities which have abolished simple domestic aid as a tailor-made provision and its financial consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u301	As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna look at everything. I'm very willing to take this with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u302	I will come back to Siriz and Fiom, which Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about a moment ago. Did I get the letter from the other day? Initially, the states showed that the amount would be halved in 2018, but the cabinet looked at it and now wants to keep the amount of the amendments and only look at the precise details.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u303	I would like to answer that question very precisely. My request is therefore that this should also be done in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u304	Fine. Then there is the point about which Mrs Dik-Faber spoke and which I also referred to in the first term. Is there also clarity for the institutions concerned in good time? Both Fiom and Siriz have had to deal with ups and downs in subsidies in the past, which sometimes made it very difficult for staff. So can there be clarity on that in good time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u305	I very much agree with Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u306	Then the Secretary of State has arrived at his block on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u307	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u308	And then I'd like to ask him if he's willing to give that answer after lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u309	I wouldn't want to do your job, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-10-tweedekamer-3.u310	Very good. Well, I'm here from various quarters already quite mad at the question of whether I wanted to make that request to you. So I suggest we suspend first and then proceed with your response.
