ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. This is the first debate we can hold as a new President under your leadership. I would like to congratulate you from this place on your appointment. It was a fine battle with Mrs Van Toorenburg; I really enjoyed the debate yesterday. That's what I wanted to say. Today we're going to deal with something else. This law provides that in the event of a violent crime, a drug test can be carried out to check whether the violent attacker has used alcohol or drugs at the time of the violent crime. A suspect will soon have to cooperate in this investigation, which will show whether or not the accused committed the violent crime under the influence of alcohol or drugs. If that is the case, then this could be a penalty aggravating circumstance. I can tell you that the SP is very critical of this bill. This law is also an effect of the Marcouch motion. We always follow Mr Marcouch very critically, he knows that too, and we do so in particular with this motion. Although this motion has never been formally adopted by the Chamber, it is elaborated in this bill. I would therefore like to propose to the Minister that a motion which has not been adopted be drawn up more often, preferably a motion from our group. I thought it was a very special effect, but what does this motion actually say?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u3	However, I would like to record that it is not a question of a motion not adopted, but of a motion being held. We always do that here when the Minister makes promises that do justice to the content of a motion. It's a motion held and not a motion not adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u4	I think it is quite right for Mr Marcouch to point this out. There was indeed a commitment, but I wanted to call on the Minister to work out more often SP motions in a law. This motion calls on the government to include the use of alcohol and drugs in acts of violence as an independent element in increasing sanctions. I do remember that we had to think carefully about our assessment of this motion. If this motion had been put to the vote, we would probably have voted against this motion. The SP has many doubts about the usefulness, feasibility and feasibility of this motion, including this law. I will address these questions in my contribution and it is possible that the Minister will take these questions away. When you commit a violent crime under the influence of alcohol or drugs, this government says, that's so bad that you can get a higher sentence. I often walk with the police and understand where this thought comes from. Many violent crimes are indeed committed under the influence of means, but the question is whether a higher sentence is necessary or desirable because you are on drugs or alcohol. We have had to think very carefully about this. According to the cabinet, it's worse if you commit a crime with alcohol or drugs on than if you commit a crime if you're sane and sober. Is a crime that you commit in your right mind and sober than less serious? In addition, addiction often plays a greater role. Being addicted to alcohol and drugs is a psychiatric disorder. These people are often ill and need treatment and guidance as well as punishment for a crime. I've gone over the bill thoroughly, but I'm missing that element. We think that you should also look at the underlying thought and treatment of these sick people. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The investigation of the substance can only be initiated if the investigating officer suspects that the accused committed the offence under the influence of alcohol or drugs. That's pretty suggestive, I think. How exactly does the Minister intend to do this? Whether someone has used alcohol or drugs is not always easy to recognise. Let me give you a few examples. A diabetic with a hypo can look like someone who's drunk. Someone who's always very hyperactive doesn't necessarily wear speed or cocaine. When you ask people if they know someone with a cocaine addiction, they often don't know it, because cocaine addiction isn't always easy to recognize. The point I want to make is that resource use has a different influence and effect on everyone. Are search officers sufficiently trained in identifying the use of resources? The Impact Analysis Alcohol Registration for Violent Crimes, which was attached to this law, rightly points to the fact that not every agent is currently certified to take a breath analysis. So we need to train cops to recognize it, but in addition, taking a breath analysis is a matter of concern. What's the Minister gonna do about it? The expert group has also examined a number of interesting issues, for example that chronic users of drugs become aggressive if they do not use it. Well, that's contrary to this bill. Medicines can also affect behaviour; about which later more. It is a pity that the expert group has not looked into this further. The expert group rightly points out that amphetamine and methamphetamine may also have been prescribed by a doctor, for example in the treatment of narcolepsy, obesity or ADHD. If a suspect swallows this medication on prescription from a doctor, doesn't it count as a penalty-aggravating circumstance? The Dutch Association for Justice and the Council for Justice point to a very important point. The courts can already take account of the possible use of resources in criminal investigations. So why don't we leave it to the judge to assess when there's a penalty aggravating circumstance? If you now lay this down by law, it does not necessarily take into account the fact that one reacts more violently to drink or drugs than the other. The Public Prosecutor's Office therefore advises that, contrary to what this law provides, the penalty should not be increased in the directive, so that the Public Prosecutor's Office retains the freedom to consider on a case-by-case basis whether the penalty is proportionate or not. Why doesn't the Minister take over the judgment of the Public Prosecutor? I found the government's observation that this has a preventive effect rather special. I had to chew on that. What if a boy goes to a dance festival? He wants to take an xtc pill, but he doesn't do it because he thinks: I'm about to commit a violent crime with an xtc pill and I'm dealing with a penalty-aggravating circumstance. I don't think that's how it works. Apparently, the Minister thinks so. I'd like to hear from him how he got this prophecy. The SP isn't just negative. I said I'm having trouble with this law, but I also see possibilities for this law. It would also be crazy if we were only negative, because the SP also advocated a blood test in 2011 in the event of a serious crime. At that time, however, it was not just about research into alcohol or drugs, but about research into drug use. The Dutch Committee on Human Rights already indicated in 2003 that in many cases of aggression a drug test should be carried out by default. This has to do with the side effects of medicines in particular. For more than twenty years, scientific literature has been focusing on the possible relationship between the use of antidepressants and aggression in particular. The Adverse Reaction Centre Lareb also concluded this in 2014 based on received reports and indicated in an alert that aggression is an adverse reaction that may occur with the use of antidepressants. In the meantime, this is also included in most of the package leaflets. When I went to look up more about this theme, I also stumbled upon a very interesting article in the Dutch Lawyers' Magazine. I happen to know that the Minister reads this magazine regularly, because he has often put this forward as a Member of Parliament. So maybe he knows this article. It describes that, in a number of court cases, judges encountered the question of whether there has been drug use, for example, antidepressants, and whether their side effects have indeed led to aggressive behaviour or more aggressiveness. If there were any use of medication, the lawyer advised in the piece to make it possible to take blood samples shortly after the crime, so that there would be more clarity about the use of medicine. In view of these considerations, I think it is desirable not only to look at alcohol and drugs, but also at medication. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Now I will deal with the workload and the costs that this entails with the NFI and the police. First of all, I'm going into the NFI. In the explanatory memorandum, the government states literally that the workload of the NFI is not increasing, as the service level agreement is not being adjusted. In our written input, we asked about the concealing language of the Minister. What does the Minister mean by that? The Minister states that he agrees with the SP that the investigator can only suspect that there is alcohol and drug use if a bladder test or blood test reveals this. NFI's running the blood work. The Minister writes in the answers that the NFI must indeed do so, but that the workload is not that bad. I quote the Minister again: 'It does have the consequence that if the maximum annual number of blood tests for the determination of alcohol consumption agreed with the NFI in the framework letter of the NFI has been reached, the police, if they suspect a combined use, will have to return to the further examination for the determination of alcohol consumption'. If I sum this up, this means they're out of luck once the quota is reached by the police. Then the blood analysis will no longer take place and all they can do is retrace breath analysis. This law is then worthless and can be fought in the trash can. Where does the Minister get the cover for this law anyway? The minister always says to the SP: this is another uncovered check. But there's not even a check here. The NFI doesn't get any money at all. I'm not really finished, because the police have a problem in this respect. Impact analysis Alcohol registration in cases of violence states that only the breath test taken by the police can cost almost 2.1 million. This is only about alcohol consumption. In addition, the Basic Provision Enforcement (BVH) is a very complex computer system. Ask police officers about the BVH and they're "not amused," so to speak. After yesterday's debate, of course, I cannot say 'not amused', but the police officers are not satisfied with this registration system. It's really disastrous. There are also problems with ICT in the police, and there should also be additional money. If the BVH, the registration system, also needs to be adapted and it is already a gang, where does the minister get the money and how? When I read the explanatory statement again, I saw that it also states that the introduction of the resource test will be accompanied by a comprehensive information campaign. Then I got very curious, because what exactly does that mean? Can the Minister answer questions like: how, when and how much it will cost? Finally, and finally, the SP is critical and has many doubts about the law and its social usefulness. I cannot, by definition, answer positively the question of whether the Netherlands is going to be safer. I certainly see opportunities for doing something good, for example the reduction of drug use when it comes to medicine and its effects. But I am certainly not convinced that we should vote in favour of this law. I will therefore listen carefully to the input of my colleagues and certainly also to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u5	We are talking about a bill aimed at defending victims of serious violence offences. We want to see the punishment felt by the perpetrators. What value does Mrs Kooiman attach to the opinion of the expert group led by the NFI that excessive use of alcohol or drugs over a promille in the case of alcohol is promoting aggression?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u6	I read the impact analysis carefully. The expert group also indicates that some people who are so addicted also suffer aggression if they do not use alcohol or drugs. This also applies, for example, to the use of medicines. Looking at the victims, it is important to prevent people from slipping up again and more victims in the Netherlands. That's what we need to look at. I am not convinced that an increase in punishment automatically leads to a safer society. On the contrary, we need to look carefully at how to ensure that people do not go wrong again. To this end, for example, we need to look at compulsory treatment. In my opinion, this law does not always do justice to the victims and make the Netherlands safer. Once again, I will listen carefully to Mr Van Oosten's input, but I am not yet fully convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u7	We may not find each other in increased penalties, but if Mrs Kooiman has the ambition with me to do something to prevent new victims, I think that is another added value in this law. I am curious to know what she thinks about the fact that, through research into whether there has been alcohol or drug use in the game, you can then offer tailor-made solutions. For example, the judge can impose as a special condition that someone has to rehab. I think that's valuable, because that's how you avoid recidivism and victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr Van Oosten is well aware of my doubts, because I have two thoughts. I do not think it should necessarily always lead to a penalty increase. What the state's attorney's office says about that, I think it's really useful: you need to see what's proportional. To impose a special condition, for example the mandatory rehab, has added value, because this will prevent people from going back wrong. So that's what I'm struggling with. I see that Mr Van Oosten may have something in store, or at least that is what he is suggesting. I can't wait to see what he's gonna come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u9	I am trying to follow Mr Kooiman's criticism. She also notes that every weekend the police gets violence in the nightlife for them from people who are under the influence of alcohol and drugs. The law provides for people to be called upon to assume their responsibilities with regard to the use of such means. The law then gives the police the power to objectively establish with a test that there is drug and alcohol use which makes the explosion of violence the way it is. Mr Kooiman can't be against us dealing with that, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr Marcouch spoke on three issues. I agree that the police are running into that and that it's a nuisance. But a younger person doesn't think: I don't drink beer, because if I become aggressive, you don't know about alcohol, then that means a penalty increase in effect. I don't think that's gonna happen. In fact, I've struggled very hard with the following. Let's say you're doing the same crime soberly, with your sanity. Is that not so bad? You can almost say the opposite: it is worse if you do this in your right mind. That's what I'm struggling with. Nor do I expect that a penalty increase will always lead to a reduction in the number of repeats, and that is the objective that we all want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u11	If we were to follow Mrs Kooiman's reasoning, we might have to abolish the Code of Criminal Law, because there are indeed people who have fallen into the same mistake over and over again. This does not relieve us of the obligation to set a standard and thus to indicate what we consider acceptable and what we do not. How does Mrs Kooiman feel about the fact that, for example, alcohol controls are being carried out in traffic, even proactively? Then people are also found who, despite the campaigns and the heavy penalties, are behind the wheel with booze. That doesn't mean we won't do that, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u12	I understand that reasoning. Of course, I've also been thinking about people getting drunk in the car, because a car can be a murder weapon if you drive it with booze. I do not need to explain that to Mr Marcouch. But drinking in the family doesn't always mean you have a murder weapon under your ass, just to put it that way. Indeed, I believe that crimes of violence should always be punished. I'm not saying anything about that either. I just haven't figured out whether there should be an increase in the sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u13	Maybe I can help Mrs. Kooiman. She visits not only the police, but also the prison system. That's very much appreciated. There she also hears from the staff that sometimes it can get very frustrated by the fact that a suspect or convicted person is only so short in his home that he or she cannot be expected to be retrained in that short time. They ask: sometimes give us more time to reach someone and make him or her sensitive to treatment. Could that element convince Mrs Kooiman that sometimes it can be useful to hold people for a little longer, because we may only be able to reach them then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u14	I thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for her question. I'm struggling with this, I say in all honesty. In addition to holding on longer, you could also consider the possibility of imposing mandatory treatment in special circumstances. I am struggling with the question of whether it should always lead to a higher sentence and therefore a longer sentence, or whether it should be said that someone with a mental disorder and an addiction is so sick that he or she should be required to rehab and be treated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u15	Can I ask Mrs Kooiman to open her hotline with the prison works council on this point? I think the prison system would be happy if it could keep people behind the door a little longer. Sometimes people don't want to cooperate, but if they get the opportunity to come to themselves for just a few weeks, they might come to the understanding that they're not just ruining their own lives, but that of the people around them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u16	This was more of an invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u17	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb morgen weer een gesprek met meerdere mensen van het gevangeniswezen.]] I will certainly propose this possibility again in order to prepare the votes. I expect the Minister to understand the problems I see. I would like to thank my colleagues for their questions, which enabled me to clarify them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. There we are again. Fortunately again a bit side by side, fresh and fruity and with pleasure. May I say it was nice to see you radiant and moved last night? That affects all of us. Happy birthday. And now, as we always say so beautifully, to the order of the day. The CDA thinks it's a good law. So we agree with the bill. It can result in violent crimes that are suspected of being committed by a test for alcohol or drug use that can be extra weighted by their impact and cause. A judge can then take that into account. He can see if he thinks it is necessary to punish someone more severely or perhaps impose a special condition. At present there is some inconvenience, because this is only possible in the Road Traffic Act. That's a flaw. It should also be possible to identify, outside of traffic law, whether someone has committed a crime under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Think of serious abuse, for example the violence in the nightlife that the police have to deal with every time, but also the domestic violence. Scientific research has shown that alcohol can stimulate aggression. Let's be, anyone who occasionally drinks a nice drink knows that this can affect your mood. When I'm cheerful, it makes me happier. But if I'm angry or disappointed, I know I shouldn't have a drink. People who do this more often need to know about themselves. Maybe they don't know this now, but then maybe they'll wear it out that it could have consequences if you drink anyway. In his reply, the Minister referred to the special condition. We understand that, but in the Minister's explanatory statement we find it a little out of balance. For example, he talks about compulsory treatment for suspects who do not want to cooperate. Well, that could be a little tricky. We are thinking, for example, of a very recent case in Breda last week. The case is irrevocable. There's been a waiver of appeal, so it's easy to talk about it. Someone was convicted of threatening his partner. That was pretty serious. It was also a threat to cops. The D.A. said it also wanted to go through the addiction, on the use of resources. But the suspect said, "I'm not in it; drop all of it, I'm just not in it." If we are going to proceed with a special condition, I wonder if we are not almost better aware of someone pushing that condition, when he just doesn't feel like it. Then, as far as we are concerned, he can really be locked up to come to his senses. That's what the discussion I just had with the SP spokesperson was a little bit about. Maybe that's how we can reach people. Then someone's gonna see that his partner, who he's beaten up, isn't coming to visit because a lot has been done. Then maybe someone's gonna think about what he's causing in his neighborhood. That element may be highlighted. To that end, we call on the Minister. Could the Minister perhaps indicate in the directives that consistently refusing to cooperate on special conditions could be a reason to stop looking at it and simply put people in prison, to ensure that someone is reached? As far as we're concerned, bespoke is nice, but it shouldn't be pamping. We don't want to see someone getting pissed off over and over again. The probation doesn't feel taken seriously in that either. Sometimes everyone knows that a person will not comply with certain conditions. I've heard the parole officer say some of them are about to drop by with the middle finger. We shouldn't be doing that to our parole officer. I ask the Minister whether he recognizes this and whether he wants to see if people who do not want to cooperate can simply find out. There's nothing wrong with that. Then I come to the results of the use of resources. In particular, there is still a challenge for the matters to be dealt with as soon as possible. Can it be taken into account in the cases that come into this treatment as soon as possible whether someone has previously had a positive test? Can you get old tests to weigh in? I hear noises that the results of a criminal trial are not yet known. Then how are we going to ensure that it can be taken into account? I told you we're positive about the bill, but everything could be a little better. There's still some work to be done. Fortunately, the Minister has already extended the bill by also allowing a resource test for the offences to be destroyed and damaged. We still wonder: does this mean that this applies to the hooligans raging through the cities? Can suspects of soccer riots be tested for the use of drugs when they are arrested? Why doesn't the Minister go through with Articles 307 and 308 of the Code of Criminal Law on serious bodily injury caused by guilt? It will then be possible to examine whether such negligence offences can also be tested for intermediate use. Of course you can doubt it. There are people who say that you shouldn't make it too broad, but precisely because of the counter-arguments that the Council of State gives, I want to know why the Minister doesn't go through with this. I need to explain that. The Council of State says: make a better assessment framework, precisely to ensure that an overall assessment can be made. Let that be of interest to these crimes! What does the negligence lie in? Is it not possible to assess the use of drugs in this type of crime? We have drafted an amendment. We are very interested in the Minister's response to this. We have not yet produced an amendment on the possible increases in penalties. Mrs. Helder did. So I do not have to spend my speaking time on that. Do justice to Mrs Helder who brings that in and to which the Minister will respond. Then we can make that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u19	I have a bit of a technical question for Mrs Van Toorenburg. In fact, Mrs Van Toorenburg wishes to add three separate descriptions of the crime to the possibility of carrying out a research on resources. Is it possible that an investigative officer, a police officer, who has an indication of alcohol or drugs, doesn't have it confined to the crime of death by guilt and a form of negligence, but has a heavier crime in mind, which actually puts that drug investigation in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u20	Could be, could be. Anyone who has looked at the law and has spoken out about it says: be cautious about it. It must be possible when it really matters, but be cautious about it. I am always a little afraid that an investigative officer will indeed be reluctant in the event of doubt, which means that there is no result available in the case of a crime as described in Articles 307 or 308. That will then be because we have broadcast this and have been given a place of our own throughout the legislative history. I think that sometimes we have to lift it just over that threshold, because the spirit, however understandable, is that we have to deal with it with restraint.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u21	I take note of what you say. I am also actually curious about the Minister's response to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u22	It is very relevant that you ask that question. The President will pass that question on to the Minister, who has listened to all this. Finally, as we always do at the end: the bucks. What is the cost of this exercise if we make it even bigger? If you run a drug test on every suspect by default, it could amount to 2.6 million on an annual basis, as we read. Actually, that's not that much. Actually, that's not as much when you consider that it allows you to make a better assessment of the circumstances in which someone has committed a crime. Let's be honest, I admit it's an invasion of privacy, but it always makes a judge, doesn't it? He or she always looks very closely at the backgrounds on which a crime was committed. This could be a tool. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether testing for drug use can be wider, precisely to ensure that judges can form an image of the suspect and actually take everything with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. I have had debates before in which you were President. Then you were Vice-President, now you are officially the President of the Chamber. As Mr Bosma, your opponent, said yesterday, judge Chamber. That's what happened. You've come out of the bus as a winner. I congratulate you on that once again from this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u25	Then there is the bill: on to the order of the day, as Mr Van Toorenburg said. The bill has been there for a long time, so it is a good thing that we finally got there. The aim is to improve the approach to violence under the influence of alcohol or drugs, so-called drugs. At least that is the first sentence of the explanatory memorandum. The original title of the bill was to reduce violence under the influence of resources. Well, that's something else, isn't it? Now the title of the bill has been changed. It is quite different now, namely the use of a resource test. The Minister will not be surprised that my group has a point of criticism about this. I'll get back to you on that. First of all, let me give you a further explanation, including for the viewers at home. The legislative proposal provides for a legal basis for the use of means tests against perpetrators of violence. The new bill gives investigators the power to order a suspect of a violent crime to cooperate in an investigation into the use of alcohol or drugs. That is certainly an improvement in the approach. In this way, the Minister wants to increase security in public life and in the home. The use of drug testing in cases of violence should involve the use of drugs as a separate factor in the imposition of sanctions in cases of violence. So that should be a penalty. The Minister also indicated that the legislative proposal could impose aggravating sanctions in order to deal with repeated and addiction. This concerns, for example, the imposition of an alcohol ban or a location ban, or the use of recognised behavioural interventions for young people and adults with the aim of changing behaviour. Judges retain the freedom to impose a sentence. The bill only makes it easier to determine whether alcohol and/or drugs have been involved. I said I would come back to it: that is the criticism of my group. In my group's view, the Minister is not moving forward, despite the promise of reducing the violence that is being committed under influence. Nor does the Minister do so despite the fact that he himself confirms in the explanatory statement that the use of alcohol or drugs, i.e. substance use, constitutes a risk factor for violence and that when resources are involved, the consequences of the used violence are often worse, due to more serious injuries and more severe violence. The recidivism in this type of crime is high. Relapsive is just an expensive word for people repeating themselves. You expect a powerful approach from the Minister of Law and Order. However, that is a bit off the charts, because that leaves him somewhat behind. The only thing that's changed with this bill is that that's a good point, that's not what it's about, is that investigators can order suspects to cooperate in the investigation into the use of resources. That test must therefore determine whether or not the crime of violence was committed under the influence of those means. If that is the case, or if there is a use of resources above a certain limit, then it is possible that the criticism in the case of the outcome of that test will affect the penalty to be claimed by the Public Prosecutor or to be imposed by the judge. As I said, it is fine that the aforementioned investigators in particular should be given a legal authority to apply that substance test to an arrested suspect. In my group's view, however, something must be done about this. It will not surprise me if my group says more often that violent crimes must be severely punished, especially if they have been committed under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs. Indeed, as I said, and also in the explanatory memorandum, the use of resources is a risk factor for the use of violence. The violence is also more severe and the consequences for the victims are more serious. In addition, there is a higher recurrence. That's what's in the Violence report. In my group's view, the fact that there is actually more punishment is achieved by means of a minimum penalty. That's what we're gonna do, just not today. You will also achieve it by statutory regulation of a penalty grounds in the case of crimes falling within the scope of the bill. We'll talk about that today. I have therefore tabled an amendment to that effect. I would like to get a response to the amendment, which will certainly come. We'll wait for it. I have another question for the Minister. Why is it not arranged for a directive to be adopted before the Public Prosecutor's Office, a so-called designation, which means that the use of resources is reflected in the penalty requirement if this is the case? We also have a directive on violence against persons with a public role, the instruction of behaviour in the use of violence (police) officials. This provides for the imposition of a double penalty in cases of violence against emergency workers. So it's possible. I see Mr Van Oosten at the interrupting microphone, but I will finish my sentences. The bill's been there for a while. That may have the following cause. The explanatory memorandum refers to the BOS/Polaris Directive, where BOS stands for Decision Support System. On the website of the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is stated that that Directive only applies to facts with a foster date prior to 1 March 2015. So it doesn't apply anymore. I would therefore like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mrs Helder's amendment has just been distributed as amended, but I am now basing myself on the original version. It does not link Mrs Helder to the limit values on which I just had an interrupting debate with Mrs Kooiman. Actually, I was on the track to introduce such a link somehow. Why did Mrs. Helder choose not to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u27	First of all, I would like to comment on the amendment. I had the amendment ready for some time. The first amendment was in the title and the second amendment concerned the question of whether it should be included in the general part of the Criminal Code, which has become the final amendment, or whether it should be included separately in any of the offences referred to in this bill. So there has been no change in the content of the explanatory statement and in the purpose. We want to see a legal basis for the imposition of criminal penalties. Then I come to Mr Van Oosten's question. We have not chosen to include a lower limit, because this would make it very difficult. We leave that to settle in a General Measure of Governance. As the Minister also says, many things are regulated in an AMvB or a ministerial arrangement. The lower limit laid down in this amendment is reflected in the fact that, at least if the amendment is adopted, the legal grounds for raising the penalty are applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u28	I myself find this lower limit so interesting because it is based on the expert group's expert opinion that you should be able to establish, above a certain level of blood alcohol or above a certain limit on drugs, that it is more aggressive and not really below that limit. Then I find it complicated that, in the case of automation, it could lead to increased penalties. Maybe you can still reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u29	I don't see the automatism. The amendment ensures that a substance test is carried out at the end of the entire trial with an arrested suspect, if the conditions laid down in the bill are met, and it has been concluded that alcohol and/or drugs are used. Then you're going to look into how much has been used. If, on that basis, the Public Prosecutor's Office decides to prosecute and impose a penalty requirement and indicates to the court that it will look into it, then the lower limit values applicable at that time, which change, will also apply. So I don't want to make it so difficult to set a lower limit in the law that will soon be too high or too low, because then you have to change the law again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u30	I actually have a more fundamental point than that of the lower limit or upper limit. Your amendment aims to do what does not actually happen in this legislative proposal that we are discussing today. You are also talking about the fact that the Minister should actually go through with it and that you are already doing so. Therefore, my question to you is what you expect from anchoring the increase in punishment in the law when it comes to reducing violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u31	Preventive action, just like the minister. I would also like to mention this in my speech. We believe that the threat of higher penalties is a preventive one, and I am very pleased that the Minister recognizes that in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u32	How do you see the practice currently used by judges in criminal judgements? You don't think it's going to be discussed at all at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u33	I didn't say that. I did say it could be better, and we are talking about it today. Mr. Chairman. On page 3 of the explanatory statement, it is stated that the lower limit for alcohol consumption in the case of violent offences is higher than the lower limit applicable to the criminalisation of driving under the influence. The reason for this is that drinking drinks will in principle affect the ability to drive faster than it has an aggressive effect. Now that the Minister has indicated in the note on the report that the expert group has not considered whether drinking is affecting the ability to drive faster than promoting aggression, my group is curious on the basis of which the Minister draws that conclusion. It has not been investigated. Another criticism is that the Minister indicates that 42% of young people arrested for committing violence under the influence of alcohol or drugs were under 24 years of age. The Minister wants to tackle young people hard, but what does he see for himself with the juvenile criminal law that has already been introduced? In other words, young people up to 22 years of age will be tried according to juvenile criminal law and not, as a general rule, punished more severely. I see the Minister shaking no, but it is. At least it is the aim of juvenile criminal law, and he knows it better than anyone else. Finally, my group notes that it is striking that the Minister suddenly believes that higher penalties for violent crimes committed under the influence of alcohol or drugs have a deterrent effect. I have been referring to it for a while in the interrupting debate with Mr Swinkels. My group has pointed this out in the past, perhaps for some people, but yes, that is what you are standing here for. My group always says that punishment must be a punishment and that higher penalties are a deterrent effect. That was always turned down. We are therefore pleased with this: better late than never. Unfortunately, therefore, it is still true that the Minister does not enforce the higher penalties by including the points just mentioned in the law. My question to the Minister is whether he is not actually afraid of the opposite effect. What effect does it have on taking a drug test? I am not talking about a test that shows that no alcohol or drugs have been used, but that do not then use them in criminal proceedings or in criminal proceedings? That leads to the suspect thinking, "Well, I'm gonna get away with it." I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. To sum up and conclude, the bill is a step in the right direction. I agree with that, but the road must be completed as far as my group is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Swinkels on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mrs Arib, once again I would like to congratulate you and congratulate you on being here so soon after your appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mr. Chairman. You have just noticed my brief interruption debate with Mrs Helder: this is a law aimed exclusively at introducing a new means of coercion. All this in order to reduce violence mainly in the domestic sphere and in public violence. This is, of course, an objective which D66 wholeheartedly supports. I also recognise that alcohol and drugs play a role in many acts of violence. I've seen that a lot in my previous work. That's very worrying. However, new legislation always raises the following questions. What kind of problem is this gonna solve? Is this an effective solution? Doesn't it go beyond what's necessary for the purpose, if you weigh down the disadvantages against the benefits? I therefore have four criticisms. Three months ago, I was doing this kind of business. An example took place on Queen's Day at the Grand Place in Haarlem. There'd been a hell of a fight, and there'd also been severe injuries. Then it was pretty hard to decide who would have done what. One thing was certain for everyone: that there was drunk. The defendant himself said it, the witness confirmed it, and it was also in the police report. It was therefore included in the determination of the sentence. That is customization, and I would like to emphasise that very much. The judge is about the weighting of factors that must count in the imposition of the penalty. If I had been asked at that time whether I needed a resource test as proposed, then I would have looked very surprised and thought: why? The funny thing, or rather the amazing thing, is that the professionals have taken the same view in the opinions. The bill assumes that there is a discussion in court about whether funds have been used. The bill cannot be based on an investigation on this point. That's not there. The professionals, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the NVvR, the Council of Justice and the Council of State say that this discussion does not exist in practice or hardly exists. I have read many times in minutes: suspect had bloodshot eyes, was unfastened, spoke with double tongue, breath smelled like... then everyone knows what follows. In court, the defendant is usually very honest about that, because he thinks he will get a less severe sentence. The result of the substance test does not add anything to this. The judge takes factors such as alcohol and drug use with the determination of punishment. Like I said, this is customization. This includes who it is, what kind of person it is, how many times it has happened, how serious the fact is. All circumstances count and must count. What this should lead to, especially when it comes to the use of resources, is often a conditional penalty, aimed at preventing repeated use of resources in such a way that it degenerates into violence. In other words, the same suspect may have learned on King's Day 2016 to guide his alcohol consumption through the conditions he had to comply with in the context of the suspended sentence imposed on him by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u38	I just jumped up when Mrs Swinkels indicated that a suspect in a court of law usually says that he committed the crime under the influence of alcohol, because he thinks that means that the punishment goes down. In this puzzle we see the piece with the image of what is going on, but also the piece with the increase in punishment. Will the defendant still say that in court? Or do we have nothing, and so this is part of it, when you add an increase in punishment to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u39	What a suspect will do depends very much on the person. This bill provides for some kind of objective handle to establish that there is a use of resources. This does nothing more than what the explanatory statement says: "It gives the Public Prosecutor and the judge the opportunity to base the use of drugs in violent crimes on the results of the substance test and to make the security obtained heavier than hitherto..." It is not a question of increasing the penalty, no, it is only a question of whether or not a person receives a test. If the suspect were to consider anything, it would be the risk of taking a test.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u40	Yes, but Mrs Swinkels has seen the amendments. She knows that the idea lives to see if the punishments can be increased. We must bear in mind that the consequence can be that the punishment goes up. Does Mrs Swinkels still think that a judge is satisfied with the passage about red-hot eyes, unsteady steps and smells of alcohol? Or does the judge perhaps need that objective in order to actually increase the sentence, in accordance with the directives of the Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u41	As Mrs Van Toorenburg knows, as the judges do, there is no direct relationship to alcohol and substance consumption. It increases the risk of being true, but that is extremely dependent on the suspect in question. Mrs Van Toorenburg said earlier that when she is angry she gets even more angry. I can say that when I finish two glasses of white wine, I always get happy. So that's where the two of us are different. So it's very subjective. Where the bill makes it appear that it is an objective handle, the test itself may be objective, but the weighing is very subjective. And that weighting must also be very subjective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u42	Having heard this, I ask Mrs Schwinkels the question I have also asked Mrs Kooiman. What value does it attach as a representative of the D66 Group to the expert group headed by the NFI? There are all kinds of experts who say that the use of alcohol and drugs can be more aggressive than certain values. That doesn't mean that you get aggressive when you take a lot of booze, but it does mean that you can take responsibility for it when you've done it and then you're aggressive. How does Mrs. Swinkels feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u43	What Mr Van Oosten is proposing would be that you get some kind of risk liability if you drink alcohol. Anything you do wrong would be punishable. In Mr van Oosten's view, drinking alcohol or taking drugs would be a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u44	I ask Mrs Swinkels what importance she attaches to this statement by the expert group, which is also a basis for this legislative process. The expert group says that use above a certain value can promote aggression and that it is therefore relevant for the criminal trial, for the prosecutor and for the judge to know whether that value has been exceeded. The VVD therefore wants such a resource investigation at the moment when the suspect is suspected or likely to have exceeded that value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u45	As Mr van Oosten rightly points out, the expert group is indeed saying that this increases the risk. However, it has not been said that any use of resources leads to aggression. Moreover, the College of PGs objected to the proposal made in the legislative proposal to include this as a penalty factor in the BOS/Polaris Directives, the criminal prosecution guidelines for the Public Prosecutor's Office, precisely because the use of resources does not have the same effect on everyone, even if a certain lower limit has been exceeded. Another critical consideration I have has to do with the potentially counterproductive effect. Mrs Van Toorenburg has already mentioned this. What happens if no test has been carried out, for example, because the suspect said he had used resources but came back on them later, or if the test results don't get into the file properly? We all know how difficult it is for the police to write this properly in the minutes and complete the file. In such a case, can the judge no longer include the use of resources in the penalty assessment? That's when you bring a discussion into the courtroom that doesn't play or hardly does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u46	In her contribution, Mr Swinkels pretends that this bill is about whether or not to use alcohol and drugs, as an isolated act, but the reason for this bill is that police people see and experience that violence is often used by people who are under the influence of alcohol and drugs in entertainment areas. As a result, these people are no longer susceptible to any form of verbal correction. You can't talk to them anymore. When it comes to an arrest, it's just more mats. That combination and that heart cry of policemen makes it legitimate to have this legislation, which at least helps these policemen to have a handle...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u47	What is your question, Mr Marcouch?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u48	Does Mrs Swinkels also see that this law provides a tool for police officers to demonstrate that there is use of drugs and alcohol in combination with violence committed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u49	I would like to draw Mr Marcouch's attention to the explanatory statement. It is not about a handle for the police, it is about a handle for the judge to weigh up the results of such a test, which is introduced with this bill. The test therefore serves to provide the judge with a tool. I wonder whether this is going to help judges and whether it is necessary for judges to be helped on this point, because judges are already taking it into account. It's already being considered. Moreover, as I have just said, a counterproductive effect is lurking. In this context, I ask the Minister why he ignores the opinions of the professionals in the field: the Dutch Order of Lawyers, the Council of Justice and the Council of State. How does he look at the danger of counterproductive action? I also ask him how he looks at this complex correlation between the use of drugs and the use of force, because even scientists have no clear opinion on this. I come to my second point of criticism. The bill is supposed to have a deterrent effect, but this is not substantiated. It's just the introduction of the drug test. I find it very difficult to imagine that a celebrater on King's Day would give up that fourth beer because he might have to blow if he might get involved in a fight later in the day. He would think: rather a Diet Coke, because maybe it'll be mats, maybe I should blow and maybe I'll get a higher sentence. We all know the calculating citizen, but this presupposes a great deal of sensible thinking in a situation that at least does not promote it. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. My third point concerns the proportionality of this bill. We must not forget that the bill infringes a fundamental right, namely the inviolability of the body. Mrs Van Toorenburg has already mentioned it. It is very beautiful in Article 11 of the Constitution and in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Such a fundamental right can only be violated if there is an urgent need for society. You must never infringe on this when a less far-reaching product is also available. I have already mentioned witnesses, the statement of the defendant himself and also the police, who observe certain behavior. So far, the judge's been doing a great job with that. D66 is always critical of these fundamental rights. Then I come to my fourth point. If I read this bill and see the amended title, I cannot escape the impression that it is being presented as something that leads to an increase in punishment. Mrs. Helder already signaled it. However, that is misleading, because this bill does not in itself allow stricter penalties. Strict penalties and taking account of the use of resources are already possible and are already being done. The purpose of this legislative proposal is merely to provide a kind of objective handle that would make it easier and more difficult for the courts to assess the use of resources. I don't think that's necessary. It fits with this character in a series of repressive legislation which, as far as I am concerned, also has the character of symbol legislation. It fits into the series of minimum sentences, the burqa ban and its own contribution to prisoners. For that reason, you could call the bill gratuitous, but it's not free at all. There's a lot more work for the police and the justice system. The costs of the test alone are substantial and the introduction costs are €500,000. A lot more cops need to get involved in the arrest and taking the test. There are doctors and nurses involved. The Netherlands Forensic Institute may need to analyse saliva and blood samples. Those samples need to be kept. All this must be done carefully. Eventually they will be destroyed, which must be monitored again. All in all, this amounts to about six tonnes per year for the substance test itself and last but not least 15,000 extra FTE for the police, which, as we all know in this house, is already overloaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u50	I do hear contradictions in the story of Mr Swinkels. I can almost hear her say at the end that this bill has a repressive effect, but in almost the same sense she says it is symbolic legislation. It's either one or the other. I also hear her say that she has experienced in practice that a suspect admits that there is alcohol use at the hearing, because that would reduce the penalty. According to the same reasoning, if this bill becomes law, the same suspect thinks: there is now a result of the substance test, which is likely to increase the penalty. People who use those resources really follow that reasoning. I regret that Mrs Swinkels does take this with her if a suspect thinks that it will be punished less, but does not take it with her if a suspect thinks that it will be punished more. Colleague Swinkels continues to talk about customization. But then this bill is really good, isn't it? It is, after all, an objective means of ensuring that customisation can be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u51	To start with the last question: it assumes that it is necessary to establish whether suspicious means have been used, which would depend on the own statement. That is not the case, and Mrs Helder knows that very well from her previous life. It's only up to the judge to impose a sentence. He must take into account all factors. That's already happening, so this bill doesn't change anything. The repressive and symbolic nature of the bill is very much in agreement, because it fits in with a series of symbolic legislation of a repressive nature that I have just mentioned. As we know, D66 is always much more for prevention. Prevention is much better served by a targeted punishment that is precisely designed to manage a possible problem of resources. The judge will be able to effectively send for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u52	My group believes that prevention is also served by the fact that, if a suspect has actually used up resources, he or she is rightly punished for that. Oh, that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... That is why my group does see what is in this test of resources, because it is objectively determined that there is use of resources and even if it is good, to what extent. Mrs. Swinkels knows from her practice, as I did from my previous life, that it's a snapshot. If an APB is holding someone, it's a snapshot. This is done either on the basis of external characteristics or after an alcohol test. But many months later, the case comes to trial. Then it is extremely useful that there is an objective result of such a resource test, so that customisation can be applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u53	I'll answer that question with a counter-question. What difference does it make that the quantity is fixed? It is a question of determining whether there is a problem and, if so, what to do about it. Is the use of drugs a problem and, if so, would it help to impose alcohol and prevention, for example? It's about that test all the time. On what Mrs Helder says about the repressive nature, that is not directly in this legislative proposal, but in the amendment she is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u54	You can explain exactly what you mean by your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr Swinkels is talking about her own words, but I do not think answering a question with a second question is so chic. Anyway, I said that this objective test would allow us to establish that resources have been used and perhaps even how many. That is what Mr Swinkels is using to say: it is not about how much has been used. I said that if resources have been used, you should take them with you if you want to apply customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u56	I actually asked a rhetorical question in the sense that it is clear that the proposal for a resource test does not add anything. I was talking about the cost. I would just like to point out that the budget debate last November was still very difficult for the NFI and the Human Rights College; they had to fight for every million. Now we look forward to the Spring note and we are curious how it will be resolved. In doing so, however, the Minister is very generously spending money on the introduction of a coercive measure that no one in the profession who has to deal with it on a daily basis has actually asked for. In short, D66 is very critical of this bill, because it provides a solution to a non-existent problem. The effect, the alleged preventive effect, is based on the almost naive assumption that the test will lead to less violence. It leads to a violation of fundamental rights which is not justified by an urgent need for society. We have to abstain from any symbol legislation that does not produce any results but brings with it considerable structural costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity on the part of my group, the VVD is in favour of the introduction of resource research as proposed by the Minister in this legislative proposal. In the written round that preceded this debate, we have already clearly highlighted why we find it and what added value it can have. Let me also make it clear: if someone chooses freely to snort drugs, or use sophisticatedly formulated "to" to pour a bottle of alcohol down his throat or to use excessive alcohol, we think it is perfectly normal that you should also be able to hold that person responsible for the behaviour that may arise as a result. Research shows that the use of drugs or alcohol can be a risk factor for violence, and often even serious violence, with serious injury. In that case, it is perfectly appropriate to provide investigators, the Public Prosecutor's Office and judges with a tool for objectively determining the use of resources, so that it is not possible for them to take such a position in answering questions from, I believe, the Christian Union, by chance, to play an excessive role in the legal process. Now it happens or happens not to be recorded in the minutes that "there is a suspicion of". Well, you haven't determined that for sure. Maybe one investigating officer will mention it and the other investigating officer won't. An added value, I am sure, is that co-operation in a drug investigation no longer depends on voluntary cooperation of the suspect, unless you are talking about traffic situations where it is already included in the criminal investigation. Cooperation can now simply be required. I think that's normal and a good thing, because a lot has happened. Violence has been committed and victims have often been killed. Then I think it's perfectly normal that you can have a drug investigation to see if there's alcohol and drugs. I also think it is perfectly normal that when excessive use is established, this can be taken into account in the penalty requirement and ultimately in the imposition of penalties on the part of the judge. Finally, I also think that it can form part of specific behavioural interventions; Mrs Helder has just mentioned this with Mrs Swinkels in an interrupting debate. As an example, I mention rehab, especially in order to prevent recurrence. In fact, if someone is alcoholic or drug addict and, as a result of this, goes beyond violence, aggression and so on, where there are victims, I think that society, to Mrs Swinkels, in relation to fundamental rights as laid down in Article 8 of the ECHR, will benefit our democratic society in order to be protected from it. However, I do have a few critical questions for the Minister about the increase in criminal penalties. It is, of course, under the introduction of that research on resources. However, do we necessarily realize it now as a result of that introduction? Doesn't it deserve a recommendation to anchor the possibility of punishment in the law? All the more so because, in those same documents to which I referred, I read that the Public Prosecutor's Office is not particularly pleased with the amendments to the directives in this area. Mr Helder has tabled an amendment this week which introduces a penalty provision into the law. Today, that amendment has been amended; we have been discussing it for a while. That amendment introduces a penalty increase in the law, at least a can-penalty clause. The Minister will respond to that. I was on the same track, but in a slightly different variant. I have chosen not to table an amendment at this stage, because I want to wait for the response to Mrs Helder's amendment, but in fact the reaction I am playing with is as follows. At the time when the lower limits on which the pleading is written by the expert group et cetera are exceeded, this can be taken into account in the penalty requirement. In part, this is actually the same as Mrs Helder's amendment. How does the Minister view this? Of course, the Public Prosecutor's Office is now free to do so. I realize that, but you will ensure that the standard I am testing with a lot of colleagues is laid down in the law that excessive use can lead to violence and that you have a responsibility for it. We are dealing with that law, because we have the task of shaping it in the best way possible. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. On that basis, I will decide whether or not I am going to come to such an amendment or whether I am going to see whether I can find a solution together with Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u58	Under the heading 'you ask, we turn' I might be able to meet Mr Van Oosten. It now states that the penalty may be increased by a third party if the investigations referred to in Articles 55d and 56a of the Code of Criminal Procedure show that the offence was committed under the influence of alcohol or one or more means referred to in Article 55d (4). After 'under the influence of alcohol', I can insert the following phrase:'meaning that the lower limit laid down in the AMvB has been exceeded'. I think that actually covers the load.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u59	I think so too, but before I say yes or no, I would like to know what the Minister thinks of that. That's how faint I am, I tell you in all honesty. I also read in the documents that, along the way of these directions and so on, there is now an opportunity for the Public Prosecutor to take this into account. I think it is important to discuss this properly in this Chamber, because everything we are saying here is part of that legal history. This clearly indicates that this should lead to an increase in penalties. With that I will make a bridge to the next point; I will now proceed with my contribution. I absolutely do not want to see this happening. I really do want to see the exact opposite of the underlying objective of this law achieved. That is the opposite of what is suddenly going to be done insofar as it is not already happening, but with extra strength, because there is such a drug investigation; I heard that a little bit back in Mrs Kooiman's words 'because I have not acted with my full wit because of the bad alcohol or the terrible drugs, I cannot be completely blamed for what I have done'. In other words, it is then used as a kind of mitigating circumstance. The lawyer's gonna come up with that, but I really don't want the D.A. to take this into account in his or her demands. I'm not going over it, because I'm in politics and I'm not a judge, but I certainly wouldn't want the judge to take this into consideration and perhaps even put it up as a motivation to come to a lower sentence. In other words, I know that guarantees do not exist up to the front door in this life, but I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to avoid that being the consequence. I am considering putting in a motion at this point to highlight that I really do not want to do so. I hope that this House will support this, so that we clearly mark with each other that we do not want to; we are the legislator. I come to my final point, which is financial administrative. My colleagues have already said a few things about this. I understand it's $2.5 million. The document mentions all kinds of amounts, but I read in the answer to the questions put by Mrs Swinkels or by the D66 Group that it costs 2.5 or 2.6 million in the end and that a calculation shows that 18 FTE of police force is involved. As the Minister himself points out, this can be covered by the Ministry's estimates and in the police department's work process as such. Fortunately, that consists of many more people than 18 fte. Mrs Swinkels and others have rightly pointed this out, and since the recent budget debate in this Chamber has really turned every euro and the V and J ministry has very strong and strong challenges, I would like to ask once again whether the financial and logistical consequences can and will be dealt with well and that we will be informed if this proves to be more complicated, so that at least the Minister acts in this area. I forgot, but I had highlighted it to formally congratulate you, Mr President, on your presidency along this path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mr. Chairman. I agree with all the fine words and the congratulations on your election as President of our Chamber late last night. It is no surprise that we are in favour of this bill. Granting the police authority to test for alcohol and drugs in the case of violent crimes makes it possible to include the use of alcohol and drugs in the case of violent crimes as a criminal element. That is what I have been trying to achieve with my restrained motion. I would therefore like to thank the Minister in advance for the work he has done. This proposal is good news for victims as well as for aid workers and service providers who get their picks on almost every weekend and sometimes daily violence, because the punishment is increased if the offender was under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs. It is also a good thing that we are less affected by violent violence under the influence of alcohol. It is important that they soon discover that they are not only punished for the violent crime, but are also held responsible and thus dealt with for their dangerous drinking or drug abuse. The trigger for my motion at the time was the huge nightlife violence. The turn of the year is still fresh in our memory. That was not as wretched and barbaric in our country as it was in Cologne, but as well in the Netherlands about 200 people were arrested in the Netherlands, I say "small," but it is frighteningly much one night because of their aggressive attacks on police, ambulance staff and firefighters. This happened in Utrecht and Tilburg. The D.A. stated that the average night out on a normal weekend equals the level of violence of the turn of the year. Every weekend there are cafés and football stadiums. That's where the party should be. The alcohol makes the men unmanageable. They're for agents. I'm also speaking from experience. It's a big and disconcerting problem. There are disturbingly many agents and aid workers sitting at home, partly because of that violence. They have street terror, burnout or trauma. It is to free those victims of violence from the crippling fear that we give the police this new power. The cops will be able to run tests without being dependent on the consent of the drunken force. It is required to undergo the test. That's profit. The agents will soon use this new competence as they already do in the case of traffic offences, for example. In the case of violent crimes, the test can also be taken without red tape, i.e. after the violence has taken place. This is very important for the families who are victims of domestic violence, where red tape is a rarity. I am glad that we tabled the motion at the time and I am glad, as I said earlier, that the Minister has worked it out in this way. I wanted to do two things with it. The first, not insignificant, is that as a society we simply set a standard. The test and punishment are a clear message for the unsub: he must be aware that his abuse of alcohol and drugs increases his aggression and that it is involved in the determination of the sanction. For the bystanders, the witnesses or the commentators, the message is also clear: violence is not normal, it is not part of it, even though the perpetrator is a very sweet man when he is sober. The second is that we are going to stand behind and next to the victim of violence, for example, by putting the perpetrator out of the house for a while, from the street, from the pub or from the neighborhood, whether or not to stop contacting or to admit him to a treatment clinic. Having said that, I have a number of questions. In the written round, we asked for a resource test for cases where there is no red tape. In itself, I see the usefulness and necessity of a test at a later date, for example after a report of domestic violence, as I have just said, but the time between the crime and the time when such a test is taken may be relevant to the taking of evidence. The Minister says that he will return to the effect in a General Measure of Management. I would like to hear from the Minister how this is going to be arranged and at what time he intends to send the AMvB to the Chamber or at least have it ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u62	I have one more question for you. I'm confused now anyway. I hear two things from you. On the one hand, you mention what this bill introduces: only the substance test. On the other hand, I hear you all saying things about increasing your sentence. Then I don't understand it anymore. The latter is only contained in Mrs Helder's amendment, isn't it? Am I to conclude that you are also in favour of this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u63	In the Minister's explanatory statement, for example in the explanatory statement, I am also in favour of the fact that we now have the power to objectively establish that someone is under the influence of alcohol or drugs. This bill will take care of that. I agree. At the same time, the Minister states that the directives will include a higher penalty requirement. I'm inclined to follow that line. In the case of a criminal offence which may be subject to pre-trial detention, the penalty is high enough to provide guidance on this in the D.A.'s guidelines and to give the judge, who is concerned with his own decisions, the room for customization, which you also mentioned. However, I believe that the directives should state that a identified combination of violence and the use of resources leads to a higher penalty requirement. As far as I am concerned, this can be done with the current legislation. As far as I am concerned, it does not necessarily need to be included in this article of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u64	You are right to say that the current legislation is already capable of doing so. Once again, I would like to ask you: would you vote in favour of Mrs Helder's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u65	No. In the explanatory statement, the Minister explained in detail that it is already possible to do so with the current legislation. I'm more on that line. I am not inclined to support the amendment in order to make it specific. As the Minister writes, you should not only look at the higher punishment, but also at, for example, behavioral measures. As a group, we want to ultimately make people responsible for their alcohol and drug use in relation to that violence and at the same time to stop people from doing so. Punishment is one way. I think you should set a standard, but all other behavioral measures are just as important. I would also like a response from the Minister to the fact that the police do not always have to use a test. The police can observe without applying the test. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the absence of this competence and the testing of resources does not mean that we do not have an objective measurement, whereas this possibility is indeed there. I'm more inclined to think you should apply that test at the moment you see bloodshot eyes, or alcohol-smelling breath, or someone who's unsteady. You should not be satisfied with that in the minutes, but you must take the test. That brings me to the end of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u66	I promised to listen very carefully to my colleagues and I did so to Mr Marcouch. Personally, I'm running into the workload of the police. I should like to hear Mr Marcouch's opinion on this. When we introduced the element "blowing's blowing," it led to a huge workload with the police. I wonder if we should ask the police for an uncovered check to enforce this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u67	I thank Mrs Kooiman for this question. I would like to endorse this question and ask the Minister what this means for the capacity of the police, training and training. You can't expect the police to do that overnight. I would like a response from the Minister to the question of how the police can be facilitated in order to do this right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u68	Perhaps Mr Marcouch would like to await the Minister's assessment of my amendment. In response to the interruption of Mr Swinkels, he states that he is inclined not to support it, because it can already be done through current legislation. I have heard his whole speech and, in a way, I agree with a large part of his speech. We're gonna go hard on the perpetrators of domestic violence under the influence of means, but then it can't be that you're gonna stand in the way of a penalty increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u69	I won't stand in the way of a penalty increase. I only note that the Minister writes to us that this will be done by means of directives. By the way, we do the same for a lot of other crimes. In criminal offences for which remand is allowed, there's room to demand a high sentence, so I'm assuming that's what's happening. This law is a very good step and, depending on the Minister's response, I would like to look at the amendments in this way. I hope that we can settle it in the way the Minister describes us in the explanatory statement. We can always decide to anchor it in the law if the evaluation indicates that what the Minister promises will not happen in this way. We are now taking a step forward by involving the use of resources in the penalty requirement and making a promise to the Minister that it will be included in the directives, which means that there will be an increase in the penalty rate. That comes next to everything else, because that's just as important to me. We need to force people to stop behavior by means of behavioural measures, because that is what we ultimately want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u70	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to ask your permission to congratulate one of your Members, Mrs Arib, on behalf of the government, on her election as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u72	I would like to say to Mrs Van Toorenburg that I was able to follow a large part of the debate yesterday. With great pleasure I followed Mrs Van Toorenburg in the debate on the election of a new President. I think it was a nice show of democracy. I have also discovered that a number of members of the Chamber have taken advantage of the opportunity of this bill to make announcements about their own alcohol consumption. I will not do that on behalf of the government, but I found it extremely interesting. Tackling alcohol and drug use of violent victims has been an issue that has been affecting the moods for some time. Victims and survivors have for years indicated that they do not understand why there is no clear difference when there are violent crimes under the influence of alcohol or drugs. I would remind you of the Marcouch motion of 20 January 2011. I hardly dare mention the year, because that is already five years ago. The then government was invited to ensure that the use of alcohol and drugs in violent crimes leads to an increase in the penalty requirement of the prosecutor. We know from research that alcohol and drug use plays a major role in committing violent crimes. At least 31% of the total violence is under the influence of police information. In nightlife, this percentage even rises to 74. In recent years, therefore, various measures have been taken to reduce the use of alcohol and drugs with the aim of increasing safety in public and domestic life and preventing, or at least reducing, the recurrence of violence. In the hotspots for the use of resources, such as nightlife and football matches, the rates of violence under the influence are still considerably higher than I have just mentioned. Alcohol consumption in particular has long been used as an excuse for committing violence. Mrs Helder and Mr Van Oosten also pointed out this. The government believes with the Chamber that alcohol or drug use should never be an excuse for violence. The starting point is that every citizen is primarily responsible for his behaviour, even if his behaviour is influenced by the choice of means. I have heard several Members confirm this. Those who use so much alcohol or drugs that they become aggressive are, in fact, double responsible for their behaviour: firstly, for committing violence and, secondly, for using excessive resources. This bill is in line with that principle. The legislative proposal we are discussing today complements the measures already taken by the government in a number of areas in this area. It introduces a well-balanced set of instruments that can objectively determine the alcohol and drug use of the perpetrators of violence. That information is important for the Public Prosecutor to determine the penalty requirement and is relevant to the court for the level of penalties to be imposed for the crime of violence. Let me make two technical observations in advance. Some members spoke about the BOS/Polaris directive. The BOS/Polaris system has not been used since 2015. It has been replaced by the framework for criminal proceedings and prosecutions of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That framework already provides for an increase in the penalty requirement of 75% if there is a causal link to alcohol and drug use in the case of the violent crime. That is an important point in this debate, also in view of Mrs Helder's amendment and Mr van Oosten's thoughts on it. That's the designation the D.A. gave to the district attorney's office. But then we come to the next point, which Mrs Swinkels also mentioned. How does the district attorney know about the use of resources? How can the judge assess that it is objectively possible to establish that resources have actually been used? Mrs. Swinkels said judges know that because it's in the minutes. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the report on violence inside and outside, which has been written in the documents. This shows that only 10% of the verbal information on alcohol or drugs is included. If we look at this investigation, we have to find that judges and prosecutors do not know when there is excessive use of resources, because this does not need to be included in the minutes. It could end up in the minutes. It will also end up in 10% of the minutes, but it does not have to end up in it. And when it gets in the minutes, you don't know to what extent there has been a use of resources. That is why this bill is proposed. It allows objective and careful identification of the use of resources. Anyone who is subject to that investigation can no longer refuse to do so. I think that too is an important part of this bill. I am pleased that the written documents show that at least a large majority of the Chamber seems to support the content and objective of the legislative proposal. I welcome the fact that, like me, the Chamber is in favour of a more efficient and effective approach to the use of alcohol and drugs by perpetrators of violence. I am therefore confident that I can convince both the D66 Group and the SP Group to be in favour of this bill. Before I go into the individual questions, I would like to emphasise another aspect. That's the impact of this bill on people's physical integrity. On the one hand, the government is always seeking to ensure the security of society, but on the other hand, it is always weighing up the demands of our rule of law. One of the elements of our rule of law is that we believe that an infringement of physical integrity can only be done if it is proportionate and subsidiary. This bill has also been looked at very thoroughly. For example, we have not always chosen to carry out a research on resources, as proposed by Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA Group. In many cases, this is not necessary for non-serious offences. Moreover, the infringement of physical integrity is not proportionate to the purpose you want to achieve with it. For this reason, it has been chosen to create this possibility only in the case of offences subject to pre-trial detention in order to objectively determine the use of resources. I will come back to that in response to Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment, but I think it is important that I make this point on behalf of the government. This is really about the balance between the violation of physical integrity on the one hand and the seriousness of the crime on the other, which harms society, the victims or the survivors. Of course, the limits to this are, and rightly so, the European Convention on Human Rights which protects human rights from physical integrity. Members also debated the deterrent effect of the bill. I think we should remain realistic about this. Certainly when it comes to the use of resources, it is always a question of whether people are sufficiently aware that they are at risk of getting a higher sentence. So the question is whether it is. We believe that this will be the case, but we also know that other factors, such as the chance of being caught, have a far greater deterrent effect on all those people who are still thinking about what they are going to do. Those are the people who make their choices objectively, but we also know that not everyone makes an objective choice, to our great regret. The government is realistic in that. So there will undoubtedly be some preventive effect of this bill, but of course it is only the question of how far that will go. I say to Mrs Helder and Mr Van Oosten in general that alcohol and drug use can never be a mitigating circumstance for violence. It is good to record this again in the Acts. We must remove this concern in the Acts, so in the legal history of this bill. I am therefore grateful to Mr Van Oosten and Mrs Helder for having explicitly asked this question. Those who commit violence under influence can, in the government's opinion, be held double responsible for their behaviour. Firstly, for the use of violence and, secondly, for the excessive use of resources, in the knowledge that their use lowers the threshold of aggression and violence, and that it often also releases the proportionality of that aggression and that violence, because people are no longer aware of the limits that should be respected. As far as the cabinet is concerned, it cannot and should not be the case that in this legislative proposal, being under the influence of resources leads to a softening of the penalty requirement. Of course it is up to the judge to make that choice in his or her wisdom. Mrs Swinkels is right to say that the judge must be able to deliver customised work. This is also a requirement of our rule of law, and our government keeps it up with enthusiasm. Of course, lawyers are free to draw different conclusions. That is precisely the game played in our rule of law. Then I come to Mrs Kooiman's question. I thought it was a nice question. She asked whether it is not strange that alcohol and drug use is a criminal offence. It'll look like the crime wouldn't be so bad. That question is justified, but I do point out that there is a double responsibility. The moment you commit a crime, that's serious. At the moment when you commit a crime while you have also made the choice to increase the risk of it by using more aggressive means, the cabinet believes that there is a double responsibility. It will then be returned to the penalty requirement as already included in the designation. Mrs Kooiman also asked about the training of police officers who are going to work with this. The police in the Netherlands have of course been used for years to work with breath analyses and breath testers in traffic checks. That won't surprise any police officer. Recognizing drug use and conducting an investigation using a saliva tester and testing the psychomotor functions are new to the police. This is also described in the documents. Therefore, together with the Trimbos Institute and the Police College, a training course is being prepared for the introduction of the saliva tester and e-learning will be introduced prior to the introduction of this law. In addition, the law is being phased in precisely for this reason. This does not mean that we will introduce this at once throughout the Netherlands as from 1 July, which is the date for which the law will hopefully have been passed by the Upper House. In the Re-implementation Note of the National Police, I indicated that this aspect requires careful implementation. So we will start in a big city and roll it out slowly, so that any childhood diseases and possible discomfort can be dealt with carefully. This also means that the financial impact will be less in the coming period. The Chamber has asked a number of questions about this. I will ask Mrs Swinkels to extend to four years the three-year period for the evaluation referred to in her amendment, assuming that she maintains her position in that amendment, since I have already made a commitment to an evaluation after four years. The reason for this is that, phased in by the law, we probably don't know enough after three years to be able to carry out a serious evaluation. Mrs Kooiman then asked whether drug use is also a drug use. A number of medicines are seen by some as medicines and are also used as medicines. But Mrs Kooiman rightly asked the question, because a number of medicines are known to lead to aggressive behaviour. But unlike violence under the influence of alcohol and drugs, drug use is often not a voluntary choice. That is the reason for the cabinet not to apply drugs in the bill. However, this does not mean that I, as Minister of Security and Justice, do not think it is very important that the patient and the prescriber are aware of the possible side effects of these medicines and that they take action against them, if necessary. Mrs Kooiman also called for attention to be paid to the Marcouch motion. I've already gone into that. At the moment, the appointment of the Public Prosecutor already provides for an increase of 75% in the penalty requirement. I say to Mrs Swinkels that it is a requirement for the Public Prosecutor to know that there is a use of resources. That is the starting point of this bill. Mrs Kooiman has asked about the preventive effect. I have already said that we must be realistic, but of course I expect that there will be some preventive action on this bill. She has seen well that the bill provides for an information campaign for the Dutch people. An information campaign should be organised in the six weeks preceding the planned entry into force of this Act on 1 July 2016. This campaign is aimed at professionals such as natural judges, prosecutors and lawyers, on the one hand, and on the other hand, at the potential of violence. The campaign for potential victims of violence will focus on specific target groups such as the night-club, football fans and public transport passengers at specific times and specific lines, but also, of course, on recurrent perpetrators of violence. The government shares the concerns expressed by Mrs Helder. In the design and implementation of the campaign, close cooperation is being established with communication staff from the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and addiction rehabilitation. The costs are budgeted at €250,000 and are provided for. A number of Members have asked questions about the coverage of the bill. We recognize two types of costs: human costs and the so-called variable costs. The human costs relate mainly to the use of the police. They consist of the work the police have to do in order to carry out the breath tests. I have already said that this is being phased in. The amount of these costs will therefore be limited in 2016 and 2017. I have stated in the legislative proposal that this amounts to around EUR 2 million. This amount must be found within the national police budget of around 5 billion. The variable costs involved in the alcohol and drug tests and the possible blood analysis, including the NFI, amount to around €600,000. This money has been made available in addition by the Ministry, for which the budget is reserved. Police ICT will also be adapted. The digital forms will be adapted before the bill enters into force. The technical adaptation of the Basic Provision Enforcement of the Police will not be significant. It is about adding new forms on which the police officer can record that the suspect in a violent crime was under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Within the police, scenarios are developed for the BVH registration. That registration is also possible in a so-called light variant. In the longer term, it will be considered whether greater adjustments are necessary or desirable. I note that, contrary to what Mrs Kooiman seemed to say, the National Police are strongly in favour of this bill, in particular because it also helps to clarify the role of alcohol and drugs in the violence against police officers and aid workers. I think all those in the Chamber who have regular contact with the police know that this is one of the big issues with the police. Mrs Van Toorenburg started her contribution by saying that this is a good law. I thank her very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u73	I refer to the Minister's remark that the police are happy with this, because this test can make it clear what the role of alcohol is. I assume he read that there is no direct connection between alcohol and aggression, because alcohol has a different effect on everyone. Can I have his reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u74	Of course. In the courts, it is ultimately a question of whether there is a causal link between the proven drug use and the behaviour shown. I'm not in that judgment. That's up to the judge, at the hearing of the district attorney. However, we all know that there may be a causal link. It's not like there's no causal link, as Mrs. Swinkels says. We know this is there, but it's up to the judge, in conjunction with the prosecutor's request, to draw a conclusion. There I cannot and will not enter as a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u75	Perhaps the problem is not at all in the causal context, but in the question of whether there is use of drugs, simply as a fact. Isn't that much more important? Couldn't that be from the file? You were just talking about the police report, but you know as well as I do that it is not just about that. The report doesn't always say anything about the use of resources. It would only be 10% of the cases. There's a lot more in the file. In a lot of cases, there's also a parole report in there. I remember that, and you know it. In that report, a fixed item is whether there is a problem with the use of resources and whether a measure is needed. With that in mind, you don't need such a drug test at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u76	Mrs Swinkels says that the dossier often shows that alcohol is involved. In that case, third parties will describe the effect of this effect and show it. That's right. However, it is a fact that it only occurs in 10% of reports of violence. In the government's view, that cannot be right. We know the numbers on violent crimes. The figure is 31%. I have just mentioned 74%. In this way, more attention should be paid to alcohol and drug use in minutes. We want this to be objectively established and then the officer and the judge will do what they think is right. This will hopefully also be the wish of the D66 Group after this legal process has come to an end. Mrs Van Toorenberg asked whether in ZSM cases we could also look at previously conducted tests. Previous tests have been included in the police automation system BVH. They can also play a role in the possible ZSM performance. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked whether the bill also applies to football hooligans. Yeah, football hooligans are also equal before the law. The use of resources can be included. If they are apprehended and are perpetrators of a violent crime, they can be taken to the station. Targeted actions will take into account that this possibility is explicit. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked whether the non-cooperating suspect was more likely to end up in prison. The answer to that is yes. Failure to comply with the special conditions shall result in the penalty, if any, being imposed on a conditional basis. The D.A.'s guidelines also have a recurring role to play. Judges are aware of the need to cooperate with the special conditions. If it appears that in a previous conviction the special conditions were not met, a further suspended sentence will not be imposed. That's how I imagine it, but that's obviously up to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u77	The problem is that someone at a hearing often indicates that he will not cooperate or that he has indicated this explicitly before. P.O.D.'s gonna be despondent. People are coming along who already know the whole chain isn't gonna cooperate. Can't we save the parole board this trouble? Can't we make sure someone who says he's not gonna do it sit down behind the valve?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u78	I need to see how this works. I understand Mrs Van Toorenburg's point of departure. I will look at how this relates to the current law and proportionality and come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u79	That's a lovely cliffhanger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u80	I know I'm doing Mrs Van Toorenburg a favor with that. That's exactly what I'm doing for her. She has advocated a broad commitment. Can't we do things by default everywhere and always? The government considers that both the infringement of physical integrity and the seriousness of the crime should be considered. I shall come back to that when we discuss Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment. I have already said that the results of the aforementioned investigations will be taken into account as soon as possible, as happens in a normal criminal procedure. I come to the questions that Mrs Helder has asked. She asked why there wouldn't be a clue to the state's attorney's office. I am delighted to announce to Mrs Helder that she is happy. The response to the amendments I am taking with me in a short chapter at the end. Mrs Helder also asked how I came to the conclusion that drug use affects driving skills rather than committing violence. Research shows that difference. Of course, research on alcohol in traffic has been carried out for years, also empirically, on the basis of limits. The limits that everyone knows have been set. Moreover, here too, there are individual differences. One rides better, at least, thinks to drive better with alcohol on than the other. Research also shows that there is a difference between individuals. To a limited extent, American research has been carried out on the question of alcohol levels. The literature shows a higher alcohol level than the level of promillage that already affects the ability to drive. For this reason, the limit values have been set as they have been set and are included in the AMvB. The AMvB also states that these are relatively simple to adapt if new investigations lead to a different conclusion. Mrs Helder further asked about the relationship with juvenile criminal law. Adolescent criminal law, of course, extends the possibilities of taking into account the development phase of young adults when measuring the penalty. Adolescents up to 23 years of age may be subject to juvenile sanctions. I say 'can', because Mrs Helder made it appear that they are always being imposed. Mrs Helder knows as well as I do that at the time the members of the Chamber thought it was very important that it became a possibility because there are crimes that justify an adult sanction, even if the perpetrator is young or for all kinds of other circumstances. Youth sanctions do not become shorter or longer due to the use of resources. Therefore, resource use will not lead to more or less application of juvenile criminal law, but rather to the application of conditional sanctions with special conditions. This is not contrary to the principle that juvenile criminal law is used specifically to provide more tailor-made work for young adults. Now I come to the questions put by Mrs Swinkels, including whether the power of law needed this law. Research shows that the report does not contain sufficient information, as has been said. Of course, there is also a judicial interest in having facts, including the fact that there was a use of resources and to what extent that was the case. I can only imagine that judges want to know how high this use of resources is in order to be able to deliver customised work in the form of penalties. The case may, of course, show the impression of use that has been generated by others, but it does not show that there is actual use of resources. There may also be a difference. An agent and bystanders may say that the person concerned was completely out of control, but later the facts may show that this was to a lesser extent the case. On the other hand, someone may have come across calmly, while the drug investigation shows that he or she was indeed heavily under the influence of alcohol or drugs or both. Let us not forget that this dangerous toxic cocktail of multi-use is, of course, also reflected in this drug study.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u81	Now I hear the Minister say that the effect, the outward appearance, may be different. Someone seems violent, seems excited or angry, while it turns out to be different after the test. The value could be much lower. As far as I am concerned, this underlines that the effects of drug use, whether alcohol or drugs, vary from one person to another. Does the Minister agree with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u82	That's what I just said. The effects of alcohol or drug use vary from one person to another. The impact is different. Some people react more violently to alcohol than to certain drugs. The combination of these is also different for everyone. Of course it is, but that doesn't mean you don't want to know. This bill is about whether we want to enable prosecutors and judges to assess, on the basis of facts, the impact of the use of resources in the event of violence. Secondly, I thought that D66 too, which supports the idea that it is appropriate to impose more severe penalties in the event of serious acts of violence committed under the influence of alcohol or drugs. In order to achieve that objective, which the Chamber considers important by a majority, we must, in the government's opinion, know on the basis of facts what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u83	Facts are always the best basis for any judgment; I agree with the Minister. But I also hear him clearly admit that it may well be that a measured value for everyone is different in behavior. In doing so, I immediately ask why it is necessary, through a test, to know exactly how much substance use, the THC content or whatever it is. 'Cause what does that help?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u84	I think that's actually very simple. Whether someone is committing a violent crime with an alcohol level of 0.5 or with a 3.5% reduction that is close to the deadly border for some people and not for others; I agree entirely with Mrs Swinkels that that makes a lot of difference for the assessment of the officer and the judge. Hopefully, together with the D66 Group, we are in favour of violence offences after alcohol and drugs being used, and we know that there can be a causal link between them; I say it all very carefully, we need to be punished more severely. For this, it is necessary for the prosecutor and the judge to be able to make the assessments they have to make in our rule of law under the law on the basis of the facts. I actually hear Mrs. Swinkels confirm that, too. I therefore hope that she will support this proposal for that reason. I come now to the question of whether the bill will be effective. Apart from what we have said about training and information, the fact that you know what is going on can only have a positive effect on this law and on what the government wants to achieve together with the Chamber. I come now to Mr Van Oosten's speech. He too didn't have a very sharp eye on the retina that the Public Prosecutor's Office has now established. I think it is important for the Chamber to know that when it votes for this bill, the necessary part "what does the Public Prosecutor do?" I'm ready to go. That is already there and can be done from day one. In the direction of Mr Van Oosten, I have already said that it is not the government's intention to do so, and I repeat it once again for the Acts that alcohol or drug use once it has been established leads to mitigating circumstances. I would also like to say that this is, of course, a matter for the Public Prosecutor in relation to the judge. Mr Van Oosten was also concerned about the financial and logistical consequences of the bill...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u85	Before you go any further, Mr Van Oosten has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u86	I fully understand that the Minister says that it is ultimately up to the prosecutor and the judge, because that is how our rule of law works. I would like to be the last to doubt that or wish to have organised otherwise. However, I would like the standard for what the majority in the country wants to do. I do not know whether I represent it in this respect, and that it reflects the standard for what the country thinks about certain matters, in the hope that the Public Prosecutor and the judges too have knowledge of it and act accordingly. That brings me to the next question. The Minister will be speaking shortly about the amendment, but would it not be helpful to see that what he now so firmly marks alcohol and drugs can never lead to a mitigating circumstance, to give a place in the law as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u87	I have also said: it can never be done, but in individual cases it certainly can, possibly. Of course, you can't judge that now. It may be that the judge and the officer together consider that, although there is a use of resources, this is not a causal link to the use of force. It's possible. There may be mitigating circumstances for other reasons. I can imagine, but I would like to come back to this in detail for that reason, and also in conjunction with each other... The interesting question will then be immediately: why is it not also laid down by law that a 200% higher penalty is required in the case of violence against aid workers? Then why isn't there a higher penalty requirement at...? Then why isn't that in the law? In this respect, I also have some reservations about the amendment for constitutional reasons and for legal reasons. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u88	I understand that in itself, but then I am left with the question of what value we really attach to the explanation given by the expert group. It says that alcohol and drugs work more aggressively as a result of an excessive use. I think: yes, you can bear the responsibility for that. Then I can also hope that the D.A. and ultimately the judge will take that into account in the sentence and ultimately in the sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u89	Yes, I understand. However, I would suggest that I come back to this at a later stage, because I think I could still have the debate on the amendment. I come to Mr Marcouch's contribution. He asked when the Chamber could take note of the General Measure of Management. I can inform Mr Marcouch that this General Measure will be dealt with next week in the Council of Ministers for transmission to the Council of State. The aim is to bring the whole, of course with this law, into force on 1 July of this year. Mr Marcouch's next question was how the police will do that. In a way, I have already answered that question in response to Mrs Kooiman. There will be careful, phase-wise implementation. We start in a large city, a medium-sized city and a rural region. It is then intended to consider how it is going under these specific circumstances, whether there are still any childhood diseases, whether additional training is necessary and whether procedures, other than those envisaged, may need to be further adapted. A national project leader has been appointed to the police, who is now preparing the framework conditions for implementation. These include training, communication, adaptation of ICT and analysis of the necessary commitment. Of course, it is also about the purchase of saliva esters for the determination of drug use. That is, of course, an important point. There is close cooperation in the preparation with colleagues responsible for the introduction of the legislative proposal to improve the handling of drugs in traffic. For example, we are building up together in the purchase of salival esters and the development of the training. Mr Marcouch asked why the new powers were not simply mandatory. That would be contrary to proportionality. Everyone would then be subjected to this, even where the government considers that there is insufficient reason to do so. Mr Marcouch also asked how the Minister looked at the time between committing the crime and taking the test out of the blue. That is, of course, a relevant point, and Mr Marcouch is quite right in that regard. It will be essential that you can proceed with the test as soon as possible after committing the crime. Over time, certain drugs, but certainly also alcohol, cannot be detected or detected sufficiently in the blood, let alone in the breath or saliva. Moreover, these deadlines vary by means, as Mr Marcouch knows without a doubt. We will lay down rules for this at General Measure of Governance. I come to the amendments. I need to see what the official songs are again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u90	We have three amendments, namely those on Nos. 9, 10 and 11
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u91	Yes, the pieces Nos. 9, 10 and 11. In response to Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment, I will be very careful. Let me put it this way...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u92	You must always be very careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u93	I know that, Mr President, but also in this case because this is really a trade-off. Based on the victim's point of view, there is a great deal to say for Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment, since she adds three specific offences which are not subject to pre-trial detention to the basket of offences for which it is possible to take the drug test. Again, from a social point of view, from the point of view of the victim, there is a great deal to be said for that. This means that it is an infringement of the balance that the government has chosen between the use of coercive measures and the gravity of the crime. That is where the government is hesitant about Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment. It's a sympathetic amendment. You'll have a tour of explaining to a victim why it was not possible under the law in that particular case. At the same time, however, it means that we are taking a step that we have not taken before. A serious violation of the physical integrity of human beings shall be permitted by law in the event of a crime which is not subject to remand. The question arises as to whether that is the right order. You could consider turning it around and saying: then we should first have a debate on whether certain offences should not also be subject to pre-trial detention. Perhaps we should do some empirical research on this. Then it would be logical to include it here, because then the penalty is actually not right. In fact, Mrs Van Toorenburg says that the penalty is wrong because it is "as bad as it is." I'm just gonna put that trade-off in front of this. In the end, it is up to the Chamber to judge it, and I would like to leave that assessment of the amendment to the Chamber, but with this consideration. If the Chamber were to vote in favour of the amendment, it would in fact infringe its own balance between physical integrity, the use of a coercive measure and a serious crime of violence on which pre-trial detention is permitted. Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly says that it does not matter much to a victim. Once again, I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I can also very well imagine that the Chamber, weighing everything up, would first like to take a good look at the effect of recording those three crimes that Mrs Van Toorenburg has put forward. I come to Mrs Helder's amendment to item No. 10, which aims at the introduction of a legal penalty increase ground. In the note, I indicated that such a legal grounds for increasing penalties would not be appropriate, because we already have the framework under which 75% penalty increases are possible if there is a causal link between the use of drugs and the crime of violence. At the same time, the law allows it to be established on the basis of facts. In the government's view, the existing legal penalty limits are sufficient to give the judge the right room for manoeuvre to involve the use of resources in the penalty measurement even without legal possibility. This will be helped by the legal history of this debate. That is what I would like to say to Mr Van Oosten. To this extent, the amendment does not add anything to the achievement of the objectives of the legislative proposal. At the same time, the amendment infringes the system we have in the law. The question arises as to why a penalty increase has not also been introduced into the law for violence against aid workers, which we have agreed to be 200%. Last year, too, it was found that this was being applied in a structural manner. What about violence taking place on and around the sports field? Shouldn't that also be included in the law? All of this calls for us to leave it the way it is now. After the evaluation has been completed, perhaps we should look into the possibility of a further step. Nevertheless, I shall leave the opinion to the Chamber, provided that Mrs Helder makes that reference to the limit values. That is essential, because it cannot be the case that these penalty limits are raised for the use of drugs or drugs below the limit values found to have a causal link with the crime of violence. That was also a bit of the suggestion that Mr Van Oosten raised. I would have liked to point out to the Chamber that this would include a penalty limit in the law on a part of the territory, whereas we do not do so in a lot of other areas. Secondly, the question is also justified as to whether the relationship between the penalty ceilings is still sound in relation to each other. Then I come to Mrs Swinkels' amendment. I have indicated in the documents that I consider an evaluation to be important. The D66 Group therefore asked for this and I made an explicit commitment. I am always happy to lay it down in a legal system, but I have already said explicitly and for good reasons 'four years' instead of the three years from Mrs Swinkels' amendment. I can make it very simple for Mrs Swinkels: if she is willing to amend her amendment in such a way that it takes three years to four years because of the phased introduction, I can leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. If Mrs Swinkels continues to regard an earlier assessment as essential for her amendment, I believe that this evaluation is too rapid because of the phased introduction and I will have to advise against the unchanged amendment. I left one more question open from Mrs Van Toorenburg. I'll answer that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr van Oosten, a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u95	I waited a moment, because I was not sure if Mr Swinkels himself would ask a question. I am not normally so critical of evaluation provisions and such, but in this case I am not so fond of the considerations for this assessment. They do not call into question the usefulness and necessity of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mr Van Oosten is quite right. It is therefore clear that the government has no doubt whatsoever of the usefulness and necessity of the legislative proposal. This is without prejudice to our commitment to an evaluation after four years. The government can agree that the evaluation clause will include four years, but I agree with Mr Van Oosten that the considerations are not those of the government. Perhaps Mrs Swinkels himself is now thinking differently about it as a result of my speech and is prepared to change those considerations. It may therefore remove Mr Van Oosten's objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u97	To answer the question, the purpose of the amendment is to evaluate within three years. This means that after two years you will look at what happens to ensure that the results of the evaluation are there after three years. That's a big difference, isn't it? Is it true that I have just heard the Minister say at various times 'new research can in future show something else about this limit value and then we can amend the law in a moment'? I would like to draw your attention from that, and the Minister may say that he does not entirely agree on all points with the expectation that it will work out well. And that, too, would argue for an evaluation at an earlier stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u98	I'm just gonna peel it off. I hear Mrs Swinkels say very clearly that she has tabled the amendment because D66 wants an evaluation after three years. That is why, and because of Mr van Oosten's objections to the explanatory statement, I must advise against the amendment. Given the phased imports, it is not possible to carry out a serious evaluation after three years, especially if, as Mrs Swinkels says, we have to start after two years. I do not recommend the amendment, because I understand that Mrs Swinkels is not prepared to amend her amendment. Mrs Swinkels has said that in the future there will probably be research which might show some further evidence. That will certainly be the case, but she then suddenly draws the conclusion that I would not believe in the usefulness and necessity of the bill. That conclusion cannot be drawn. This is a good case of the lack of a causal link between my comment and the conclusion that Mrs Swinkels makes. I expect more research to be available. That is why I have chosen an AMvB, because I expect that we will perhaps want to amend it in good consultation with the Chamber. This could be about the limit value, for example. We can adjust it up or down later, but on the basis of empirical evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u99	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u100	The conclusion that you wouldn't believe in your own bill is on you, because that wasn't the point. The point is that this proves once again that it is necessary to carry out an evaluation within three years, taking into account all the uncertainties and the critical attitude of D66 towards the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u101	Thank you. We have thus come to the end of the first-term answer and we are going to have a second-term answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mr. Chairman. I always find this a difficult debate. A SP'er is generally very pronounced and knows exactly what he or she stands for, but this is a kind of ethical-legal issue that I find very difficult to implement. I listened to my colleagues and the Minister throughout the debate and made a list of pros and cons. I'll let them pass briefly. This also prevents us from having to give an explanation of vote later. The most difficult thing about this bill is, as several parties have indicated, that alcohol should not be a mitigating circumstance. I can confirm that in itself. In fact, I think it is reasonable to say that this should not automatically lead to a reduction in the penalty. However, this law looks at a penalty increase. I find that very difficult. If you look at this bill positively, you could say that this makes it possible to impose special conditions more often and perhaps even more quickly. In that light, the bill has added value to the SP, precisely because you can treat mentally ill people, for example psychiatric retarded people who have an addiction. Hopefully this will lead to a recurrence reduction. I would very much like the Minister to stress once again that I can interpret it in this way. In fact, if the one-to-one bill leads to increased penalties, so that people only get locked up sooner, that does not, of course, lead to a recurrence reduction. I sometimes say crazy that prison is more of a crook-to-criminal education. The recidivism figures don't speak for jail time. I would like the Minister to take that up. In the context of the costs, the Minister said that he is making a budget for the NFI. The SP, of course, likes to see a somewhat larger budget, so that we do not have to work with a quota. I'd like to give the Minister one anecdote of a working visit to the police, an experience I had when I asked to join the Police Academy. I thought that would be fun, because then I would learn how to catch bad guys! Like many police officers, you learn what road and traffic laws mean and how to act as a cop. I thought: oh no, I've just spent a whole week with my nose in all those laws and get it here again! The aspirants explained to me that in the event of a collision they had to fill out all sorts of forms, but that they had an extra form with them because people should also blow if they had a collision. The whole class asked me in choir if we could please stop producing all kinds of extra forms. I do have a bit of a problem now, because this bill actually introduces an independent form. I'm having a really hard time with that. I would therefore ask the Minister to respond to this. I also welcome his commitment to training in this area. That is an important commitment. Still, I'm really stuck with the workload in my stomach. Finally, I come back to testing for medicines. I have already explained this and will simply read my motion. I think that will clarify a lot. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research has shown that there is a likelihood of a link between the use of antidepressants and the emergence or increase in aggressive behaviour;]] [[Whereas in several court cases there has been or has been a discussion on the possible relationship between the drug use of the suspect and the possible side effects;]] [[calls on the Government to allow for a blood sample to be taken shortly after a crime to be used for alcohol in order to clarify the use of medicines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33799-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u103	When this law comes into force, it is important for our group to be able to make the overall assessment. I made a motion for this on purpose, so that I leave it to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u104	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. It is always a good thing to pass the painful points in legislative consultation, precisely because legislation has a history that can always be taken into account in its implementation. That's the power of this kind of consultation. That is why it is right that the Minister should say that he is hesitant about our amendment and that he should explain why it is so. This requires me to look again at the amendment in order to see how we can tighten up the motivation. Indeed, it is precisely because we are restricting ourselves to cases of pre-trial detention. But there are a few provisions whose consequences are so serious that you can ask yourself whether there should be no exception. There are many exceptions to the law, but the Minister is right to point out that we need to motivate it a little better in order to understand why we deviate from a fundamental starting point. We will. Knowing that the Minister will return to it in the second term, I would at least like to give him something, should it be so, I can hardly imagine that he will not accept our suggestion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Public Prosecutor may require and impose on the judge that, inter alia, following the use of established means at the time of committing a crime, the accused must comply with a special condition such as compulsory treatment;]] [[Whereas suspects are regularly reported not to attend the hearing;]] [[whereas this is unacceptable;]] [[calls on the Government, with the Public Prosecutor and the Court of Justice, to discuss the desirability of adapting their criminal law directives and guidelines on this point, so that in such a situation there is no hesitation in demanding or imposing an unconditional prison sentence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33799-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u105	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. I will limit my second deadline to justifying the amendment tabled by my group. The Minister stated two technical reasons in his reply: the current possibilities are sufficient, and in the designation framework for criminal proceedings and OM actions, a whole mouthful of.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. But a clue isn't a law. My group's amendment regulates a legal grounds for increasing penalties. Because in a law you indicate what you as a co-legislator think is important, with which you actually indicate what society thinks is desirable. A law must be repealed. A directive or a designation has been amended as required, but not a law. The bill is being discussed now, so that as a co-legislator you have to take your task seriously: then we think it is desirable to make use of the opportunity now to lay it down in a law. If that had been possible with a legislative proposal on violence against persons with a public role, my group would also have advanced a legal increase in criminal sanctions in the general part of the Criminal Code, because that would indicate that certain things are simply undesirable and that there are consequences when people cross the line. That's what the Code of Criminal Law is for. I'll leave my reasons to it. I would just like to say that I will amend it in the sense that it will include a phrase which reads as follows: if the lower limit is exceeded as defined in the General Measure of Management. I would like to discuss this with the Bureau for Legislation, but then the Minister will know that it is being amended to at least mention the lower limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mr. Chairman. I shall briefly summarise my main objections. Many colleagues have today pointed out the penalty-aggravating effect of this legislative amendment. I repeat, this amendment is not aimed at this. It gives only an objective handle for judges, but alcohol and drugs alone and its use do not say anything about the violence. The use of alcohol or drugs has a different effect on each individual. I do not think that we can say here that the use of alcohol or drugs leads to aggressive behaviour. That's not certain. I'm not convinced of it at all either. In addition, the judge needs the freedom to decide for himself how to take that into the punishment test. From my experience as a judge, I know that alcohol and drugs are also included in the sentence. There is no such thing as that discussion in the courtroom, which the minister is referring to. The Council for the Law and the Dutch Order of Lawyers also say this. Punishment is bespoke; the minister himself says so. The judge takes with him all the circumstances and therefore also the use of means. That objective handle can also work counter-productively, because what if it is not there, what if there is no test or the results in the file are missing? I therefore believe that this proposal brings us to the debate in the courtroom. I seriously question the deterrent effect of the drug test. I can't imagine anyone thinking, "I'm gonna have a Coke now because I'm gonna fight later." I'm not convinced of that. In view of the violation of human rights, the Minister himself has already said that you must pay close attention to proportionality. I am not convinced that the use of this law is so great that it justifies or can compensate for the violation of fundamental rights in this case. For the D66 Group, the bill is part of symbol legislation, because it does not in itself allow for stricter penalties, even if presented in this way. It only introduces a means of coercion that the practice does not require. The EUR 2 million it all costs is, in view of the gaps in the budget, a very large expenditure. I think that's weird. In any event, because I am so critical, if this proposal comes through, it will be evaluated quickly, within three years, as I have proposed in the amendment I have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u107	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I have already indicated what my group's considerations are, as well as what is my greatest fear in the drafting of this bill. This is seen in the inclusion of the results of the research on resources as an argument why you cannot be held entirely responsible for the violence you have committed and the victims you have caused. The Minister has made clear statements on this matter. He has also made clear considerations about the element of punishment. I'm gonna think a little bit more about it, because I'm gonna be okay with it. I have also explicitly indicated here that I am sending the message to the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary that at least 40 Members of this Chamber are very keen to see the excessive use of alcohol and the excessive use of drugs included in the assessment of the penalty requirement and the penalty to be imposed. I come, together with Mr Marcouch, to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Law on the Amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure relating to the introduction of the power to order an investigation of means of violence and any related amendments to the Road Traffic Act 1994 aims to improve the treatment of violence under the influence of alcohol or drugs;]] [[noting that this would provide a legal basis for the use of means testing against violent bombers;]] [[noting that the results of these resource tests may be involved in the penalty to be claimed or imposed;]] [[noting that the aim of the law is to increase the penalty for the use of alcohol and drugs and to encourage the use of special conditions in the case of perpetrators of violence under the influence of those means;]] [[Considers that it should be possible to establish that such research and the results of such research also achieve this effect in such a way that the results of the investigation as an aggravating circumstance are incurred in the penalty claim and recognised in the penalty to be imposed;]] [[calls on the government to monitor whether the law does indeed have the intended effect and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Marcouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33799-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u108	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. As I said before, the bill can count on our approval. I do not see the law as an end in itself, but as a means of tackling a social problem. That problem is violence on nights but also outside; think about football stadiums in combination with alcohol and drugs. Policemen I have spoken to say that they run into alcohol and drugs, which make these groups problematic and unspeakable. We need to be able to appeal to those people for their responsibility with regard to the use of these resources. We need to be able to hold them accountable. This can only be done if the police have the power to write and measure properly the actual use of resources, so that the officers and judges can make good judgements on the victims of the violence with that information in the minutes and with those observations. That is what we stand for: we want the public space to be safe for everyone, for our children, for our families and for women, but certainly also for our service providers who work every day at risk for themselves and for their members. We want to make sure it's liveable and safe out there. This power and this law are linked in a series of measures that we take to ensure that people behave. This also includes the fact that people with an addiction problem or an alcohol problem or people who often come into contact with justice because they are under the influence and commit violence are sometimes forced to accept help. In addition to increased penalties, as I said before, it is just as important to help people and to provide the necessary tools and facilities for this. Only in this way can we ensure that we are effective in reducing this problematic violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u109	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Chamber, also for the fact that, for example, Mrs Kooiman has made it clear where the balance lies. I am beginning to get the impression that I have not been able to convince the D66 Group of the usefulness and necessity of this bill, but the last thing I say to Mrs Swinkels on this issue is that I think that D66 too should find it very important that we arrive at conclusions on the basis of facts in the courtroom and not on the basis of thoughts, suggestions and feelings of people involved in the criminal case. I would ask the D66 Group to look again at whether it is better to judge people on the basis of facts than on the basis of feelings, ideas or thoughts that arise in the case-file. I am pleased that Mrs Kooiman has indicated where her considerations and those of her group are. Of course, I can confirm that this bill also gives the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judge the full scope to opt for a higher sentence or for a higher sentence combined with conditions, a conditional penalty or special conditions, such as indeed a treatment. The government really is about customization, but with the note that it is explicitly intended that this customization is made on the basis of a higher penalty requirement. Mrs Van Toorenburg has rightly said that this will then lead to more room to apply special conditions. This also means, of course, that both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary are also looking at whether it is a first offender and, if so, what is most important for this particular first offender: is that perhaps a harsh punishment to show that this is not acceptable or is it not a serious punishment and is it especially important for a first offender to know what is going on with him and to let go of treatment? In my opinion, it is essential that we always bear this in mind, including in this legislative proposal. That is what we have established our legal system on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u110	Now the motions, because we need to move a little faster. Mrs. Kooiman, briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u111	If I understand correctly, the Minister says that this law also makes it possible for an addict or a psychiatric deranged person who is under alcohol or drugs to be subject to special conditions, whereas this was not possible before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u112	That doesn't change the bill in itself. The law already makes it possible for a longer sentence to be imposed, and there is also a possibility to impose part of it on a conditional basis and to attach special conditions to it. That's what I'm talking about. In her motion, Mrs Kooiman asks for item No. 14 to look at drug use in the blood sample. This requires a new formulation, more research and more costs. That is exactly what Mrs Kooiman said she did not want, however sympathetic and understandable I think it is. I said what I said about medicine. I am sorry to have to advise against Mrs Kooiman's motion, because that would indeed lead to an additional workload and new forms, not only in the police but also in the NFI, without doing anything with those results. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Mrs Van Toorenburg, in her motion, asked to discuss the desirability of applying criminal law directives, so that there would be an opportunity to demand an unconditional penalty if someone did not wish to participate in his particular conditions. That is, of course, up to the individual consideration of the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary. I would be happy to get in touch with them on this, but I would say very quickly that in some cases someone is saying that he is not going to do it, but he is going to do it eventually. I do think it is important that the D.A. and the judge always bear that in mind. However, I am happy to enter into the discussion requested by Mrs Van Toorenburg. In this respect, the motion may also be held or withdrawn. If she wishes to put the motion on the table, I shall leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u113	I'd be happy to hold the motion, but I expect the Minister to report back at some point. You can do that in a general consultation or in a collective letter. It doesn't have to be in a separate letter, but I'd like to hear what the outcome of the conversation has been.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u114	At the request of Mrs Van Toorenburg, I propose her motion (33799), No. 14), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u115	I'm getting to the motion on part No. 15 by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Marcouch. They are not asking for a new evaluation or for a permanent evaluation, but to keep a finger on the wrist and, like Mrs Van Toorenburg, to examine, at a subsequent AO, whether any of the results of the new law is already available and in a letter to the Chamber, what are the first impressions of the application of the new legislation. So that can't be until the end of this year and maybe spring 2017. I'd be happy to. For that reason, I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Finally, I notice... no, I don't notice anything anymore. These were the motions. I would like to thank the Members of the Chamber for their care and thoroughness, but also for the exciting, legally insistent debate we have had with each other. I would also like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contributions. And, Mr President, you have presided very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u116	Well, well, well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u117	We will vote on the legislative proposal, the amendments tabled and the motions next Tuesday.
