ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice. Thank you for joining us. We have four participants on the side of the Chamber, three of whom are going to speak. The first is Mr Van Oosten of the VVD Group. He has, like everyone else, two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week, or two weeks ago, we had a general discussion on victim policy, and I think that was a constructive consultation. With the Minister, I really tasted an almost intrinsic conviction to work for victims. He does so in the footsteps of the pamphlet in which he stood up for the interests of the victims last year, or two years ago, as a Member of Parliament. However, it appeared to me from our discussion that it still seems to be up to date, so I understood at least that victims sometimes come into unnecessary and unwanted contact with suspects. That is something we must avoid, and I therefore thought it wise to table a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas victims should not be confronted with suspects or convicted persons before and after the hearing;]] [[Whereas it has been repeatedly stated that separate waiting areas would be set up for victims;]] [[Whereas attention should also be paid to accompanying victims to the courtroom when it comes to preventing unwanted, but above all unnecessary, contact with the suspect;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that victims can use separate waiting rooms and also to pay attention to accompanying victims to and from the courtroom in order to avoid unnecessary contact with the suspect;]] [[calls on the government to return to the Chamber in the foreseeable future by which way this has been achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten, Mr Recourt and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33552-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr Van Oosten talks about separate waiting areas. That has already been mentioned in the past and I believe that no one in the Chamber disagreed with that at the time, but well. Then there was also the desire for a separate entrance, but I do not hear that in the motion. Is that implied, or is it out of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	The motion states: accompanying victims to and from the courtroom. I have done so because I want very careful thought to be given to how we can shape logistics in such a way as to avoid unnecessary and undesirable contact. Or that should lead to a separate entrance, I leave in the middle. It is also a question of whether this is necessary, because in general such a building has a decline and a front entrance. I am particularly concerned that the judiciary is aware of the need to avoid unnecessary and undesirable contact. I'd like to put that challenge there. Furthermore, of course, I will not end the motion for a resolution in vain with the appeal to the government to let us know how it was ultimately designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	Of course, it may well be that the case law comes with the communication: we need more money for that. Anyway, that's a like-dan question. Perhaps Mr Van Oosten can take an advance on that and tell me whether the VVD supports it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	What you're saying is that's a like-dan question. I don't think we should make it any bigger than it is. The point is to prevent unnecessary and unwanted contact between victims and suspects. I am particularly concerned about underage suspects, whom I have spoken about explicitly in general consultation. I think we are all in agreement and we must organise it in such a way that it will be good in the future. I don't see how there's a really big check in there. I wouldn't know why that would be, because it's generally about bulky buildings. In other words, it must be possible to organize a lot in the guidance. Let us put that challenge first where it should lie and wait and see what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Van Oosten has already pointed out, it was a very constructive consultation. I would like to raise two more points today. The first point is that we have called on the Minister to go one step further in protecting the privacy of victims. Fortunately, the Minister has received this well. That's gonna be a spearhead for him, too. We would simply like to say here today that it is important that he really does work on the forms, but also in the final implementation, so that we can best protect the victims. We have co-signed the motion on waiting areas for victims. It is striking that we also have a debate on the implementation of the European directive a little later in the morning. Now let it be pretty solid in that too. We have heard the Minister in the AO say that he has already made that call, but that he cannot break iron with his hands. This is not literally his text, by the way. How could he do that to himself? Let there be one more appeal from the Chamber to support it. But the fact that he has committed himself to doing so within Europe in the end is also an important signal to our judges, courts and courts. It just needs to be arranged and quite quickly, because we've been talking about this for almost seven years. That's got to be boxing for each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber would be Mrs Helder, but she would also waive her speaking time. Then there's no more mood to say anything. Is the Minister already able to comment on that one motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. I see that according to your system, I have an hour to do that. If you invite me to do so, I will, of course, try to talk it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	I don't think I should do that, because I know you well enough to know that you would fill that hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for the good discussions we have had on victim policy. It is a spearhead of the cabinet and it is a point that is very close to my heart personally. I am therefore very pleased that today we can discuss not only in this VAO but also in a debate on the implementation of the directive. It is remarkable that we in Europe are already getting some idea of this as President of the JHA Council in terms of victim policy. At international conferences, we even notice that policies are being pursued here in a number of areas, which Member States say goes very far and that they are not yet ready. They think it's a good idea, but they think it's very progressive. At the same time, I am very pleased to see here that it is the ambition of both the government and the Chamber to continue to take further steps in this area. In this light, I can say to Mrs Van Toorenburg that I naturally support and endorse her appeal and that I stress that the protection of victims' privacy deserves particular attention. I also realise that if there are rules, that does not mean that they are properly implemented in the capillaries of all organisations. So that is really a point of attention. I acknowledge that, and I will commit myself to it. I shall now turn to Mr Van Oosten's motion for a resolution. 19. Of course, I share with the Chamber the importance that victims are not unwelcomely confronted with the suspect, either prior to or during a criminal case. The WODC investigation shows that things are going very well, but that not all of these so-called victim spaces have been provided. That is why, as I have also said in general consultation, I have once again asked the Council for its opinion on this matter. The Council has indicated that it has and also draws attention to the position of victims and survivors in the case-law. It goes without saying that victims must be allowed to exercise the legal rights they have. The case law would like to take note of investigations and, in particular, of practical signals indicating that improvements would be needed in certain areas. I have noticed this in the discussions we have had. The Council's policy on justice for the reception of victims is set out in the Model Scheme on Appropriate Accommodation Victims. This regulation requires that undesirable confrontation with the suspect should be avoided as far as possible in the courthouse and appropriate facilities should be provided to the victim. One of these amenities is a separate room to accommodate victims. The scheme shall also specify the minimum requirements to be met by the Chamber. The Council states that it attaches great importance to the possibility for each victim to use a separate victim's area. It is primarily up to the dishes themselves to take care of this. The council has informed me that he will ask for extra attention from the courts for improving the use and access to these rooms. Apart from that, the Council considers it very important that each victim is actually given the opportunity to use the victim's space. This requires, for example, that the messenger be informed by the Public Prosecutor of the presence of a victim prior to the hearing and that the victim also report to the messenger and, if necessary, be referred to the victim's area. The good news is that this usually goes well in practice, but not always. It happens that the arrival of a victim has not been announced in advance, and it also happens that a victim does not make himself known to the messenger as such. Therefore, a referral cannot and will not take place. The Board will draw attention to these organisational aspects in the courts and in particular urge that they also discuss them with the local court if necessary. I see the motion tabled by Mr Van Oosten in support of this policy and consider my commitment to inform your Chamber of the outcome of my discussion with the Court of Justice as completed. I leave the vote on the motion to your Chamber and think that this is an important support to get the policy we have implemented as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you for the opinion given by the cabinet through the Minister on the motion, but nevertheless: the Minister sees the commitment to come back to this as a done deal. I'm having a little trouble with that. In my opinion, Mrs Van Toorenburg was right to say that I do not know whether the number of years we have been talking about this subject for quite a number of years. However, I would like to agree that we should come back in a year or so, perhaps in a more general sense, to the question of whether this point has been resolved or whether there are any unresolved questions. In fact, just as Mrs Helder said, as a Chamber, we can think about whether we need to add water to wine somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	I think that is a reasonable request from Mr Van Oosten. I propose that I report on the state of play in a year's time. Then I will return to the discussion with the Councils, including, for example, the signals from LANGZS, the association of victim attorneys, where people are generally very well informed about the practice. I'll report on that in a year. Thank you for that suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you. On Tuesday we shall vote on the motion.
