ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. More than a year and a half ago, Secretary of State Hilversum woke up loudly with plans for a public broadcasting of his dreams. However, it was a nightmare, not for the NPO and the broadcasters, but for Dekker and his VVD, who now don't turn a blind eye. On the Veronica ship there were roaring one-liners: breaking the monopoly of broadcasters, broadcasting companies from their ivory tower, away with Bananasplit and Ranking the stars and parties in Hilversum hold each other in a stranglehold. This tough language is of course reminiscent of the VVD election posters: big words, but great deeds are unfortunately not there. As no one believes that the VVD is going to catch bad guys or that the mortgage deduction is like a house, so everyone knows that the reform of public service broadcasting has failed. The Veronica ship stayed in the harbor, Captain Dekker was out of control, because the best pilots were on shore in Hilversum. The Secretary of State is in his shirt and empty-handed, because the parliamentary support in the First Chamber was so uncertain that he had to wheel and deal heavily, spin and spawn, flatten and weaken in the Senate. The result, therefore, is that the core of the law has been sold for an apple and an egg. Entertainment should be without prejudice, even a causal link with more ratings for the core task is no longer necessary and the order that would be broken open has been slammed again with a hard blow. After all sorts of letters, spelling formulas and interferences, the power lies with the broadcasting organizations again, thanks to political columns such as the CDA and the PvdA. This Secretary of State has not been able to escape the Hilversum stranglehold either, because every time one writes a letter in Hilversum, this tough Secretary of State makes that direct to law, or Hilversum dictates and the Secretary of State stands by and looks at it. D66 was quite enthusiastic a few years ago. D66 thought: at last we are going to reform public broadcasting: core tasks over ratings, news, backgrounds, education and culture as a central task, as a central focus instead of flat entertainment. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that the cabinet has failed to do so. Furthermore, D66 thought that the old system would finally be put on hold, that we would finally open the door to external producers, external organisations that could also submit a programme proposal. As an optimist, because you have to be very optimistic to be positive about this law, I can see that the door has been opened to external producers. That was enough for D66 to support the law, but everything has been said. We debated this law here in the House of Representatives, I believe six months ago, until the middle of the night, until four o'clock. It was also called the Night of Dekker. Of course, that jousting is nothing compared to what happened in the First Chamber after that. There was no less than three days of debate. The senators have made the most of it and the Secretary of State had to make many commitments: about appointments, about the position of broadcasters, about programme costs, about public involvement and even about Second Love advertisements. He set out all these commitments in a number of letters to the Senate. You could even say: the Senate played Tweede Kamertje and the Secretary of State played the game. He must have bought himself afterwards that he had to undress his law like this. After a bizarre U-turn, the law, in fact the repair law, is back in our Chamber. The Council of State therefore spoke of a remarkable procedure. I will now turn to some aspects of this new law and the discussion in the First Chamber, starting with the issue of governance. This is because most of the changes have been made, particularly with regard to the role of the Minister or, in fact, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in the letter: the role of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the appointments. After that, I will deal with the relationship between the broadcasters and the NPO and, finally, I will deal with the Star-advertising and the Watching Point. As far as governance is concerned, excellent work has been done by the Upper House. We don't have our senators on a string, but they did keep the Secretary of State on a leash. He has now had to be completely out of line with the appointments. In future appointments, the Secretary of State or the Minister can no longer play a role. This applies to both the management board and the supervisory board of public service broadcasting. This increases the independence of public service broadcasting, and so it should be. That is why we in the Lower House have previously supported the motion of the Labour Party and the Christian Union. My compliments to the Secretary of State for bringing water to the table. Of course, it wasn't nice to give all kinds of jobs in public service broadcasting to fellow party members. That reeks of friendliness, I say. Good thing this is no longer possible. At present, there is still an extensive exploration of appointments in the public media sector and the role of the Secretary of State in it. In February, the Secretary of State said that this exploration would be ready in the spring. There'd even be a bill. What is the state of play in this respect? The second point is the relationship between the broadcasters and the NPO. This law seeks to clarify exactly what is the distribution of power between broadcasters, broadcasting associations and the NPO. Without really defining that clearly, the Secretary of State writes: the concession policy plan, the performance agreement, profiles of the supply channels, the coordination rules, agreements with the broadcaster, the annual plans of the NPO and the budget of the NPO must be considered. You understand my point, this does not make it any easier or clearer. This dull polder bureaucracy really doesn't make anyone any better, I'd even like to say. This is because there is no mutual trust between the NPO and the broadcasting associations. This is yet another example of lard on the square millimeter in Hilversum. The Secretary of State has always said that he found this so extremely disturbing, but now he literally writes in his letter that seven different documents and regulations must be worked with as many as seven different documents and regulations when it comes to the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. Why the hell are you doing this? For example, the balance sheet is again in favour of the hidden broadcasters, because the Secretary of State had to secure the support of the political parties that were being held up. Can the Secretary of State state state exactly what the distribution of responsibility is about? How far does the NPO's steering task go? Who will be the longest if there is disagreement about a programme format, whether or not one of the broadcasting associations or an outside producer, in which the broadcasting organizations act as co-producer? Is that the NPO, or does the network decide what happens in the end? Under pressure everything becomes liquid, but the liberal principles of this Secretary of State first. That worries me, because he wanted to bring the support of the SGP into the First Chamber. He agreed with some kind of sex police, a viewer for commercials, so that advertisements like Second Love could be banned. D66 thinks that's unnecessary, absurd and silly. There's already a Advertising Code Commission. There's a complaint line. Advertisers are responsible themselves and the government does not have to intervene. I would like to go one step further: it is even dangerous. Because then we can at some point also ban advertising about meat because Marianne Thieme wants it or advertising for young people because Mr Krol of 50PLUS does not want it. In short, we get political influence from advertising. We just shouldn't have that. We don't want that on programs either. You may think that I am joking, but it is not for nothing that the Minister for Security and Justice, including the VVD House, has rejected this proposal before, just like his colleague, Mr Van Wijngaarden, who is also from the VVD. I don't understand why the Secretary of State agrees with some kind of vice police for commercials. I am very curious to see whether he would like to explain what he has promised. That is described in the letter to the First Chamber, but I am curious to see exactly what the Secretary of State has promised and how far this commitment can go. Can we really find ourselves in the situation of banning advertising under political pressure in this country? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Speaking of advertising, D66 would like the NPO to stop advertising online. It is good and absolutely positive that the NPO can also be viewed online, on your computer, via an app, via your tablet or via your smartphone, both live and on Broadcast Missed. Let there be no misunderstanding: a public service broadcaster should also be shown on the Internet. Public service broadcasting must have an open view of the future in a changing world. But if you want to look back, it's very unfortunate that you first have to struggle through a number of commercials. The NOS-Journaal should just be available immediately if you want to look back? Why is such an independent information provision framed with commercial messages? Why isn't it available for free? Online commercials are mostly annoying. They hardly get anything from the NPO, while private parties such as Telegraaf.nl, NU.nl and BNR desperately need this income. So if it's D66, we stop. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. I come to a conclusion, but perhaps you would like to give the floor to Mr Van Dijk first, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u3	You'll have to finish your story first, because you're past your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u4	But it's also a good story, Mr. Chairman. Finally. The Secretary of State announced a revolution in broadcasting land. There would be no more flat entertainment, it would become a narrow station that came out of the ivory tower and the order would end, so we were promised loudly two years ago. D66 did not support the big words and the high tone on which they were expressed, but rather the substantive line, because it was a step in the right direction. I've always said that. But the great promises soon turned out to be fleeting air castles. Unfortunately, instead of an open system with a focus on the core tasks, the broadcasting organisations have maintained their protected position and the NPO is increasingly moving towards audiences and commerce. So we get a closed public service channel that is increasingly commercial, both on TV and online. This is not distinctive and has little public added value. The Secretary of State had the opportunity to initiate a real change a few years ago. It's a shame he missed that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u5	That was a razor-sharp analysis by Mr Verhoeven. Really compliments to the lyricists. I'm not sure who they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u6	That's what we have our people for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u7	Well, well, well. Freelancers, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u8	No, they're all on permanent duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u9	Well, well, well. Anyway, we're not gonna get distracted. It was a bit in the last sentence of Mr Verhoeven's speech. After that razor-sharp analysis, my question is: what will D66 do? Can I conclude from Mr Verhoeven's last sentence that D66 is not going to support this law now, unlike the first time? D66 did support version 1 of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u10	D66 is one of the few parties, one of the few opposition parties that have had the same opinion of this law both in the Lower House and in the Upper House. She was in both chambers before this law. I am happy to answer Mr Van Dijk's question in a moment. Our judgment of the law is that it is actually as good as an empty law. It's almost an unnecessary law. I've put a lot of words into that too. The Secretary of State blew very high off the tower two years ago, shouted very loudly that he was going to change all kinds of things and told everyone that he would be the great reformer in broadcasting land. I think there is very little left of that. I am critical of that. Start a little less high, you might end up a little less low. Mr Van Dijk is asking for my final judgment. It is still a kind of mini-, mini-, mini-step forward where still a very small bit of light shines in breaking the order. That is a first step which has been taken very carefully, much less than I would have liked to. Therefore, depending on the answer given by the State Secretary, D66 will still very likely support this law. That's consistent, straight and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u11	Nevertheless, Mr Van Dijk has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u12	Well, there's a bit of consistency now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u13	It's three "yes" times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u14	I have a wonderful radio broadcast today from March 7th. Rehearsed. In it, Mr Verhoeven says loud and clear: dear people, this law cannot support D66. Now I hear that D66 is most likely going to support him anyway. That is a pity, Mr Verhoeven. We're not used to that from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u15	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u16	You always have a straight back, but not today. How's that? You said you couldn't support this law. Your whole speech leads that way, so that Mr Dekker's Veronica ship would just be beached in front of the port. After all, if D66 were to draw this line in the Second and First Chambers, the structure, the camp Dekker, would fall apart. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u17	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u18	But you're saying you're just supporting the Secretary of State. So there's nothing going on at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u19	I said, "Probably." That's what I said for a very important reason. Mr Van Dijk is right. Yes, come back, Mr Van Dijk! I did say on 7 March that there is one element in this law that could be a very good reason to vote against it. I've just asked all kinds of questions about that. That point is the vice squad for commercials. Mr Van Dijk did not mention it, but that was the subject of the discussion. D66 has said what I have always said about this general law: we regret that there is so little left, but we have no reason to vote against it. In fact, on 7 March I said that if there is a way in this country of banning advertising under political pressure and allowing the Secretary of State to do so, that could be a good reason for us to vote against it. I'm gonna listen to the Secretary of State very carefully in a moment. Mr Van Dijk is right about that. That's why I just said "probably." Don't worry, Mr. Van Dijk. It's just a consistent line of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u20	An interruption by Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u21	No conclusion, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u22	We're doing an interruption in two this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u23	I don't get it all so well anymore. I also had to read what was said in the First Chamber, for example by Mr Schnabel. He's gone through it pretty well, and he's demanded all these things. These were all changes to the Media Act that we discussed first. D66 wants all kinds of changes and has completely undressed that law, but now Mr Verhoeven says that it has become an empty egg. I don't get it all so well anymore. Where are the consistency and the linearity that Mr Verhoeven himself speaks so exuberantly about when it comes to his own contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u24	This is not such a very strong interruption, Mr Bosma. Mr Schnabel has been very actively involved in the entire section on governance in the First Chamber: the appointment procedure. What did we do in the Lower House? We have supported a motion from the Labour Party and the Christian Union. The line of that motion was well extended by Mr Schnabel in the First Chamber, namely independent appointments without political interference. That point has been added to this law in the First Chamber. That's good; I just said that. What has been taken out, or what has been watered down, is the piece on the relationship between the public broadcasters and the NPO, or the breaking of the order. That's gotten less good, even though it wasn't so good. The contribution of the First Chamber has ensured that politically independent appointments are made, which is very good. Other parties have also been pulling and pushing and taking all kinds of other things in and out of the law, so that it has not gotten any better at all. But there was no other way, because the Secretary of State was stuck between different parties in the Upper Chamber. But of course that wasn't D66's fault; you understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u25	What could ever be the fault of D66? We listened to Mr Verhoeven until 4:00 a.m. He hacked into it with the bone axe, sort of until it became light. Well, it was October; that wasn't so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u26	No, it was a subtle contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u27	With Scud-missiles, he fired on trade-K. It was a shame that that law was printed on paper at all; the law was too scandalous for words. Then the law went to the other side, to the First Chamber. That's where D66 got a little cunt, something about governance. No one understands what that's about. Next, Mr Verhoeven is here to applaud and join the Sander Dekker fan club. I don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u28	No, but Mr Bosma also does not understand governance at all. Mr Bosma always talks about'state broadcasting'. Mr Bosma always makes his own contribution to this type of debate a caricature. He only goes into a number of VARA programs that he repeatedly piss off. Next, he felt it was not important for governance to be affected, but governance was about the independence of public service broadcasting, which should be independent of political parties. I like the fact that Mr Van Dijk and Mr Bosma are asking me about the part of this law on the independence of advertising. I do not want advertising banned by political interference; I simply do not want it. Nor do I want political appointments to public service broadcasting; Mr Bosma calls that 'governance' in a way that is not important. D66 has worked hard on these two issues and these matters determine whether we support this law or not. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u29	Madam President. It's a hunch jump with this law, but we'll get there. This Secretary of State made a number of commitments and made clarifications in the First Chamber in order to obtain a majority behind the legislative proposal. He did it. I agree with the Council of State's understatement, for we have also not escaped the fact that there was 'a remarkable procedure'. The legal commitments are contained in the supplementary legislative proposal that we are discussing here today. The bill contains four amendments. I have a few questions about that. The bill provides for the Dutch public service broadcasting to set up a social advisory council. Is this social involvement not the reason for the existence of broadcasters, which continue to advise? What's with the advice? Could their members also be members of broadcasters? Is this taken into account in the balanced composition mentioned in the explanatory memorandum? That's what I like to hear. Furthermore, there are doubts about the way in which broadcasting operators are now referred to; that is the chapter of governance, a strange word. It is to be defended that NPO directors are no longer appointed by the Minister, now that they are given a greater steering role. Even the appearance of public intervention on the free media must be ruled out, although in view of the broad political distribution of broadcasting operators over the last 20 years and their institution, I think it best to defend that a little more confidence in the appointing authorities would be appropriate. However, there is a reasoning for drivers for the sake of abstinence. This applies less to the regulators to my liking. The BBC, often cited as the model of an independent public broadcaster, also appoints the Supervisory College, the BBC Trust, simply by the Minister of Culture. Is it not true that, under the new law's vigeur, hundreds of millions of taxpayers' money are spent annually by directors appointed by supervisors through an independent appointment committee? We are somewhat reassured by the fact that the Secretary of State may resign or suspend in the event of failure of directors; page 6 of the note on the basis of the report is crystal clear about this. How you turn it or turn it around, the weight of the role of the supervisors is growing unmistakably. Without going into details about the fairly complex points system in supervisors, I would ask the Secretary of State to respond to the following idea. Supervisors in large companies with a certain minimum balance sheet total and/or number of employees have a maximum of supervisory functions with a key including, for example, a double Presidency. There are exceptions for cultural, ecclesiastical or charitable objectives. Where the spirit of the law and these agreements is therefore that you should not have too many heavy supervisory functions to ensure, domestically said, that the supervisor takes his work seriously, you could say that when the role of the supervisor at the NPO is more heavily defined, and that is the case in the present proposal, that should have consequences within the points system. I would like to hear the Secretary of State's views on this. When assessing whether my group can vote in favour of today's legislative proposal, the original legislative proposal must of course also be taken into account. Without the legislative proposal we are discussing today, the original legislative proposal will not enter into force either. The key question is... It is perhaps nice to mention that the key question is a term from a broadcasting quiz in the fifties. It was the last and most important question, and if you knew the answer to that, you could win a ham. That aside. The key question is whether the whole package will improve the current situation. Will public service broadcasting become more transparent, contemporary and more of the Dutch than of the broadcasting director? That is the real consideration I am making today on behalf of the VVD Group. For that consideration, I refer to the three main points made by Mr Rutte on behalf of the VVD Group in October last year in dealing with what I now call the'mother proposal'. 1. There will be a better demarcation between the core tasks. Entertainment is no longer a core task but a means of carrying out those core tasks. These core tasks are information, education and culture. 2. 50% of the programme budget will be opened up to broadcasters other than existing broadcasters and the broadcasting guarantee will be deleted. 3. The overarching NPO will be given a more guiding role, with the result that more transparency will be achieved in which editors will have a balanced and creative competence to come up with the best programme proposals. These three improvements also remain fully in line with the additions to the bill we are discussing today, so I conclude with the Secretary of State in his note on the report. (On page 12 and much more precise on page 15, for those who want to read it.) The public service broadcasting shutters are indeed being opened up with access for outside producers, greater transparency and more complementary rather than competition with commercial parties. It could have gone much further and as far as the VVD is concerned, but the Netherlands is a compromise country and on the last ice-shot of the barrier, because that is the broadcasting system, the shooters' pits appear to be the deepest. Yeah, the third net would have been better off as a regional network. Yes, the transparency of the cost of programs could have been more detailed. Yes, the access for outsiders to create programs could have been much easier. I can go on like this for a while, but the firm start is there, with 50 years delay, 50 years! In 1965 the Marijn cabinet fell on the broadcasting issue and on an earlier occasion I quoted the minutes of the Council of Ministers on this matter. Fascinating reading for the lover and anyone can consult it. Back then, in 1965, the VVD worked for breaking the order. Today we have the opportunity to open the door to at least half. So yes, the package of those two laws together produces a more liberal public service broadcasting. And yes, that is what the VVD Group is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u30	Madam President. Some confusion has caught the SGP (and it doesn't happen so quickly). How are we supposed to interpret today's proposal in constitutional terms? Could you scientifically call this a pseudonovelle or, to be more consistent with the PVV's jargon, a nepnovelle? As far as I know, there is no definition of the phenomenon that is now before us. In any case, we are dealing with the exceptional situation that we are amending a law which would normally have been rejected by the First Chamber. This is not a real novel, because before that the changes were really too fundamental in nature. A second source of confusion was the question of what media gene we should compare the handling of these legislative proposals with. Does it look a bit like a soap opera? I say immediately that I don't know much about that. Or is it more of a Dutch drama? I don't know any of it. It's hard to choose. At least the treatment has led to more entertainment, including in public service broadcasting, and that was not the intention of this proposal. The main objection of the SGP to the original proposal was that the social rooting of public service broadcasting would be affected in favour of an unelected elite. That's language that even the SP needs to address. The SGP hoped that this proposal would be used to address this social problem. The SGP understands that the government wants to strengthen the role of the NPO. This is done in these proposals, for example, by giving the board the power to involve external parties, but why should the coordinating role of the NPO be replaced by a steering role? In view of the objections in the First Chamber, the proposal would become much more balanced if this plan were to lapse. The issue of advisory councils seems to us a bit like a nineteenth-century element in the proposal. That is an anachronism in relation to the Media Act, but good. Quite apart from the question of whether you can really make such a consultative board representative at this time, I would like to hear a more detailed reflection from the Secretary of State. It is the question of why this bureaucracy should be imposed if there are more effective instruments. I am thinking of instruments that are well available to the media themselves. If we want a slender channel, it is not enough to answer that the NPO may use other resources alongside the mandatory advisory board. Why does the proposal not confine itself to the quality of public involvement rather than requiring resources? The status of the Social Advisory Council remains shady for the SGP. It is good that the government explicitly states that the Advisory Council functions in addition to the broadcasters, but this does not completely avoid the risk of mixing responsibilities. Can the Secretary of State say that this council should not judge the programmes of the broadcasters? It is not intended that a cozy phenomenon such as an advisory board should create even more shaky faces within public service broadcasting. Finally, the SGP would like to ask for an explanation of the Minister's ability to deviate from the important opinion of the appointment advisory committee. The proposal talks about conflict with the Media Act. From the reaction of the government, I understand that this is about the appointment rules of this law, but what is covered by these appointment rules? Is that just the incompatibility list, or is that also the grounds for suspension and dismissal? In the latter case, the Minister may choose to deviate on grounds of disability, and that will give him a great deal of discretion. I would like to hear a clarification on this point. Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u31	I know the SGP as a respected party...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u33	... which operates in parliament with great respect for state law. That is just what Mr Bishop himself said. He has also expressed his opinion on the way in which this law has ended up here. However, I have also read.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Then I thought: that doesn't fit in with the SGP, suggesting something like the main argument to support such a large, comprehensive law? Am I right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u34	The documents of the First Chamber show that the SGP has chosen a particular position in this. A very hot iron, if I may put it that way, had to be brought under some control. This has been a point of primary importance for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to consider how this law could be set up. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has made its decision, and of course we respect it. I also think it is an extremely valuable addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u35	The SGP may consider it a valuable addition if Second Love's advertisements are addressed. I am surprised that it can be decisive in your assessment of this law which is so much more comprehensive. It remains that I have just heard Mr Verhoeven say that exactly this point of Second Love has been resolved according to D66's wishes, which are mirrored by yours. How is that possible? What's been arranged around Second Love?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u36	Let us point out that it is not just about advertising these practices. It is, in fact, an approach that is much broader. As tobacco advertising is prohibited, you also have to take appropriate measures against certain other excesses that you otherwise face in the public domain either in the physical environment or via the media unintentionally, even if it was just to protect children who may be confronted with it suddenly and unintentionally while Viewing Pointer clearly indicates how to deal with it. Suddenly one of these commercials gets in the way. We all shouldn't want that, should we? If you can work through a system like that at Viewshop regulating, you should not let that opportunity slip away. I think it is valuable that the Secretary of State has said that this will be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mr Bishop says that we all should not want that. That is almost always a political statement. One party feels that we should not want one party together and the other feels that we should not want the other. This is not about Second Love's commercials. This is, of course, about the influence of politics on what is broadcast on television. The SGP has very strongly advocated independence in the appointments and ensuring that public service broadcasting cannot be forced by pressure from political appointments. At the same time, the SGP, which is always so right-minded, says that we must avoid certain advertisements that we, as a party with our political views, do not like. That doesn't rhyme with each other, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u38	I understand that Mr Verhoeven is afraid that the political influence will have on broadcasts. In my opinion, the Secretary of State has already responded to his objections in advance by allowing them not to invest in politics or in the Chamber or whatever, but in a system such as the Watchpoint. Politics has no influence on that. This is a self-regulatory phenomenon that works very well for films and other broadcasts. Well, we are not proposing to ban it by analogy with tobacco advertising or other harmful matters, even if we could have done so and even if we would have liked to discuss it personally. We welcome the establishment of a mechanism which restricts the commercial forces of this kind of bad advertising. I think a model like the Watching Pointer would be perfectly suited for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mr Bishop is now ignoring the fact that his party, and especially his party leader, Mr Van der Staaij, has really made this a major political issue. This is a political point of the SGP. The SGP has every right to think that is important; that is fine. But she then pushed this point down the throat in the First Chamber, because of the political pressure and the small majority relations, with this liberal Secretary of State and told him to do something with it. There is therefore a political influence on what we see on television and in what capacity. We can all say lightly here every time that we do not want Second Love, but what we really should not want in this country is that politics dictates what may or may not be on television. That is what we are constantly talking about in these debates, and the SGP is completely ignorant of that. Again, does the SGP think that it should be possible not to broadcast or otherwise, because it happens to want to? I really want a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u40	Again, but a little more clearly worded: Mr Verhoeven is simply making a mistake of thinking here. The SGP does not determine which advertisements are or are not broadcast, as this is invested with an independent institute, a self-regulatory body similar to the Viewer. Mr Verhoeven is here calling for politics to determine what we can or cannot see, but that is completely untrue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u41	We know the SGP as the constitutional conscience of the House of Representatives and Mr Bishop also enjoys a certain stature in that area. The SGP is the party that stays for the longest time in the Lower House and always points to the purity of the state. But if we look at how this law has been dealt with here until four o'clock in the morning in pieces and pieces, how there was a three-day meeting across the street in the First Chamber, how she came back here...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u42	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u43	That's not how it's supposed to be, is it? The constitutional conscience of the House of Representatives, and in particular Mr Bishop, should be indignant about that. Surely the SGP shouldn't be bribed by some little thing about Second Love?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u44	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Bosma for his heartfelt compliment. I am happy to pass that on to the group, which will also appreciate it. However, I would like to distance myself from a word like 'buy'. That is not the case. I fully agree with Mr Bosma that the treatment of this bill does not deserve a beauty prize, but the alternative is to go back to zero. Mr Elias just outlined how long this route has been going and how many bumps and so forth we have already had to take. If, at the end of the day, there is a legislative proposal leading to a certain innovation, I can imagine that the Secretary of State will say: let us take this road. However, I fully agree with Mr Bosma that it does not deserve a beauty prize.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u45	Not only does it not deserve a beauty prize, it has also gone very weird, because it is contrary to state law. Across the street in the First Chamber has been wheeled and dealt for three days, while they have only two flavors: yes or no. In addition, the First Chamber is not the real representative of the people, because that is what we are here in the House of Representatives. In the First Chamber, this law was negotiated into all pieces and holes and far behind the decimal place. This is contrary to the essence of Dutch state law. Isn't that something Mr Bishop must think of? Even the Council of State, of which Mr Donner is a member, spoke of a remarkable procedure, and the President of the First Chamber also found it very strange. Next, the constitutional conscience of the House of Representatives says: it will all be; it may not deserve a beauty prize, but we will proceed to the order of the day. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr Bosma has also heard how I began to recognise that the SGP is in some confusion because there is no precedent, at least that is not known to us, of a legal treatment that has been or has unwrapped in this way. That's why we've been looking for a typing of these "pseudonovelles" or whatever. We didn't come out entirely, but this type of novelles does occur. So you have to act on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u47	What does the SGP see for itself when it comes to the advertising watch? The NICAM is indeed about self-regulation. The standard applied is that programmes should not be harmful to children. Does the SGP consider that the standard that should be scientifically proven to be harmful to children should also apply to advertisements via self-coding? How does this idea of the SGP relate to the motion adopted in this Chamber which states that the NICAM's self-regulation system should also apply more broadly, not only to television, but also to the Internet, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mr Heerma referred to the motion he tabled in November 2015 (34300-VIII, No. 86). As far as we are concerned, what is in the motion is a point that can be worked out. I would like to await the answer of the Secretary of State to the question put by Mr Verhoeven. This could very well be a passable road. If it only applies to advertising on radio and TV, it is only a very small part of modern media. The modern media are much wider. I can imagine the Secretary of State saying in this regard: we are going to implement this motion right away and this will become an aspect of it. But I'd like to hear how the Secretary of State himself stands in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u49	I understand that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament is calling for the study promised in the First Chamber to be involved in the drafting of the motion and in the modernisation of the legislation on the Viewing Point. It's good for me. I would also like to ask a question about this myself. But the first part of my question was meant to get it very sharp. The SGP indicates that, in the case of advertising, a self-regulation system along the lines with which the NICAM operates in relation to programmes should be considered. The standard should cover the harm to children.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u50	Yes. Whether that is the only standard is to those who work it out, but it is a very crucial standard, absolutely. I assume that, at the time when the Heerma motion is being worked out, we are going to have a broader view of how we organise things and what criteria apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr. Chairman. That's some gossip. That is the inevitable conclusion on this media law. Initially he was rushed through the Lower House. That was easy, because there the coalition has a majority. But then came the First Chamber. There were no less than three plenary debates. In between we saw for hours deals and wheels in the back rooms. Parties were haunted with gifts. The SGP itself was promised a ban on Second Love. It is equally unclear what is going to happen, because it cannot be that both Mr Verhoeven and Mr Bishop are happy with this law. Indeed, they disagree with each other. I can't wait to see how this is gonna work out and how the Secretary of State is gonna talk about this. To be continued. How opportunistic this is. At the same time, numerous questions remained: the power of the NPO, the appointment of directors and the independence of broadcasters. As a result, a new law had to be introduced. Nevertheless, there had to and would be a vote on the stripped-out media law, which had now become a ghost law. This is weird. I've always understood that a novelle is needed when it turns out in the First Chamber that a law needs to be amended. Now that hasn't happened. That is why today we are discussing a law of sweeping with the debris that the Secretary of State did not get through the First Chamber. How does the Secretary of State himself feel about this situation? Doesn't he find it highly careless? The Council of State speaks euphemistically of a remarkable way of working. State scholars De Vries and Elzinga cut off the occasional solution. People speak of "juggling with state law." The President of the Supreme Court also criticised. I'd like an honest reflection on your methods, Secretary of State. A great concern for my group in this law is that the NPO becomes omnipotent at the expense of the broadcasters. Broadcasts are not just production houses that make programmes on behalf of the NPO. Does the Secretary of State share that view? Looks like it now. Moreover, the Secretary of State will see this as a success: a step towards the abolition of broadcasting. That's the agenda behind it: a death home construction. Back cover comes from the PvdA. She's been selling her soul for three years. Asscher and Aboutaleb will have to speak straight in their election battle. On the website Spoekbuis.nl we see that the Secretary of State has already talked. He shows again that he has little to do with the public order. Nice for his followers. He says: "In the 1960s, everyone was very busy keeping Veronica out of the order. Now there's exactly the same discussion. In five or ten years, looking back at each other, we say that this media law was the most logical step we could take." It's a wonderful combination of a new provocation of Hilversum and taking yourself a little too seriously. In the meantime, the question remains: what is the relationship between broadcasting and NPO? What has the Secretary of State done with his commitment in the First Chamber to establish the relationship between broadcasting and NPO? The note following the report states on page 17 that the NPO may draw up those arrangements, including the Coordination Regulation. I am sorry about all the jargon, but it is a question of leaving the government to the NPO to determine the division of tasks, while here the question has to be answered: who is talking about the content of programmes? Mr Verhoeven asked the same question. I'd like to get a clear answer. The Council of State also recommends that the law should at least contain rules to prevent genre coordinators, working on behalf of the NPO, from influencing the content of programmes. Why didn't the Secretary of State do anything about it? The Secretary of State refers to the co-ordination rules, but the broadcasters do not need to be involved. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? The NPO can do what he wants if he wants. The limited influence of broadcasters applies to all the rules and laws which the State Secretary lists as safeguards for journalistic independence: the concession policy plan, the performance agreement, the profiles of the supply channels, the budget. Although broadcasters may express their views on these documents, if the NPO administration does not want to do anything about them, nothing will happen to them. The Secretary of State could also have said: I have heard the concern about journalistic independence, here is your lock on the door. Why didn't he? Referring to an objection procedure is a bit easy. These procedures sometimes take years, making the topicality of the programmes obsolete. The NPO has the power to review each programme proposal in the light of the substantive frameworks described in agreements. Does the Secretary of State share the view that choices for presenters, guests, subjects or specific parts of programmes should not be part of that substantive framework? Only then will you guarantee independence and provide clarity. Mr Klein has tabled an excellent amendment to that effect, and I have just heard that my name may also be included. In the amendment to item No. 9 is also clearly stated what our wish is. In any case, this division of labour is now unclear. Then I come to the appointment of directors. This has been a lot of consternation. The Secretary of State appointed partner Bruno Bruins as chairman of the Supervisory Board. That wasn't convenient. It had the appearance of nepotism. In addition, Mr Bruins was also chairman of another government body, the UWV. Does the Secretary of State think that, looking back, is a sensible approach? Is he prepared to make public the procedure for the appointment of the Chair of the Supervisory Board? I'd like a response. The question is, have we made any progress? There is now an independent appointment committee, but we have all read that the current president of the public service broadcaster, Mr Hagoort, will be leaving on 1 September. Then the new law is not yet in force. The Secretary of State has promised that he will work in the spirit of the new law on the appointment, even if the law would not be in force by then. Can he indeed confirm that? One more question. Can the public service broadcasting works council make a binding proposal for a member of the board? I am referring to both the board of directors and the supervisory board. I'd like a response. Has the Secretary of State actually already had a discussion with the broadcasting organizations after the examination in the First Chamber? In what way has he been in contact with the members? Why, for example, was there no internet consultation on the bill we are discussing today? I'd like a response. I'm afraid we're gonna look back in five years and see that we're gonna break something here that we're not gonna get back easily. This Secretary of State must and will make his mark on the public system, in his senior year, on his way to a fun job elsewhere. I hope Parliament is wiser, here and in the Senate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mr. Chairman. We did not discuss the Mother Law proposal until the middle of the night, I believe it was in October last year. Today we are discussing changes that have been made partly on the basis of the debate in the Upper House. Mr Elias has well reflected this, as has the Council of State: there is a remarkable procedure. But I'm also saying it's not unique. I can't get the bill with which it happened earlier, but I'm sure this has happened before. But it's about the content. As mentioned above, this law is an important step towards the future-proofing of public service broadcasting, so that it can work together in the coming concession period to strengthen and create programmes for everyone: programmes that are perceived by viewers as inspiring, focused on the tasks of information, culture and education, but which certainly offer scope for relaxation and for everyone who loves public service broadcasting. It must be a channel in the middle of society that makes important contributions to the general development of children in education programmes. For us it is important that public broadcasting is one of the engines in society to pay attention to the emancipation of new Dutch people. Additional measures in the legislative proposal relate to four points, one of which, the appointment procedures, for the Supervisory Board and the Management Board, have already been introduced by the undersigned. If it had been up to the Labour Party, we would have already taken the step to stop having NPO directors appointed directly by the Minister. This has been the subject of a debate. That had to be a little more careful than in one go. I'm glad that step is just being taken now. That distance is necessary if we want to give the NPO a more directing task when it comes to matters laid down in the law. Then appropriate distance and not the role that the minister still has in appointing supervisors and directors of the NPO is appropriate. As far as I am concerned, these adjustments are good. If they had not been made today, we would certainly have considered taking this step in the next legislative proposal. This does justice to the motion by myself and Mr Segers on this point. The letter of 28 February 2016, in which most broadcasters together with the NPO have said how we handle the open order, shows that you can regulate a lot in the law. But even more important is how they will jointly implement this great task and this important task. It is a major change for public service broadcasting. On the procedures for transparency, costs and programming, a motion was adopted by me and Mr Verhoeven, which sets out the level at which it should best be done. The law provides for the Court to be informed of this. That seems to me to be a good thing, because there are different views on this issue. We share the view that we must ensure that we decide here what costs too much or too little. This is always complicated, compared to the principle that public service broadcasting is independent. This includes saving tax money and, more importantly, making beautiful programmes for all Dutch people. I see Mr Van Dijk walking back and forth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u53	I'd just keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u54	The proposal makes every effort to take the next step. The next concession period has begun, but the law is not yet in force. That must be done quickly, so we can make the next move. The forthcoming concession period is also important to allow public service broadcasting and the NPO together to do what they have promised. We have a duty to see to it. All the political parties here have a responsibility not to go ping-pong too much next year, even if that is convenient. It is important to know that my group will agree if this step is taken with broad support. The latter is my assessment after hearing all the input, especially Mr Verhoeven's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u55	I have a question for Mr Mohandis. There is uncertainty about the division of tasks between broadcasters and the NPO. Mr Mohandis may have gotten that too. At the moment it is not clear who has the final responsibility for the content of programs or the choice for a presenter. Does Mr Mohandis think that the choice for a presenter, for example, is ultimately on the radio?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u56	Jasper van Dijk, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u57	You are free to make suggestions. Or does Mr Mohandis think that the NPO can overrule that if he doesn't like it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u58	In my view, this discussion can only be conducted properly if Mr Van Dijk takes into account what is the current practice in Hilversum. The task of the NPO is that it looks at the placement of programs. Mr Van Dijk asked about the responsibility of the content of programmes. This is clearly stated in Article 2.88 of the Media Act, which states that broadcasters have final responsibility for form and content. I referred to the letter of 28 February 2016, which states exactly what that method is. It also states that it is a task of broadcasters to choose presenters. So that's not a job of the NPO. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this definition is clear. However, the parties must agree on this definition. Otherwise, they're always gonna steal and then it's just gonna be bureaucratic. In the letter from a large majority of broadcasters and the NPO on how to deal with places on the one hand and production and co-production on the other, I see a fairly clear separation. There is never a complete separation, because you always have to deal with a creative environment in which you come together to a beautiful end product.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mr Van Dijk, have you asked your second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u60	No, Mr. Chairman, absolutely not. This is my very first interruption today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u61	Well, then you'll have plenty of room to ask a short question. This is the last short question you are going to put to Mr Mohandis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u62	The clerk will fill you in, Mr. Chairman. It's best when things are decided together. I fully share that view. The question is, of course, what to do if there is no common understanding. What does Mr Mohandis choose? He is right when he says that it says that broadcasters are about the content of the programmes. However, the Secretary of State also writes that the NPO has the power to review each programme proposal in the light of the substantive frameworks, objectives and so on. That doesn't sit well with broadcasters, because that can lead to the NPO saying, in the event of a disagreement, that we want you to choose another host. I even know an example of that. The NPO overrulet then the network. Now it is up to us to choose a direction in that direction. I am giving you a great opportunity, namely to have the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Klein and Mr Van Dijk, which clarify this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u63	I think that clarity has really been provided. I have also looked at the debate in the First Chamber and how that went at this point. I have also read how the majority of broadcasters, together with the NPO, have looked very carefully at the distribution. How do you deal with the presenter and with content versus coordination or placement versus content? You have to make good deals about that. Much of what is now formalized in the law was in fact already a jurisdiction that the NPO had in Hilversum. That's how it went. You should take care of that, but you should also make sure that the NPO does not interfere very much in article 2.88 of the Media Act. After hearing the Secretary of State, but also after reading all that I have read and following the debate on the other side, I have every confidence in that. However, it is also a question of good execution. That's something you can't all legally regulate. As far as I am concerned, this is a rather comprehensive answer to Mr Van Dijk's question. In other debates, I sometimes respond less, but I try to do him justice, also in view of all the debates we have had on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u64	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u65	I'd already come to an end. Mr Van Dijk has brought me to an end even more. Thank you for that. To sum up, it was quite a process, with debates and discussions, but I am glad that there is broad support. The next step is really relevant to a broad public service broadcasting system in the middle of society. There is certainly much to improve, because public service broadcasting really needs to be in the middle of that society. The assignment is to continuously ensure that in a greatly changed media landscape, with more and more channels, I don't agree about all those channels that you can receive via all kinds of internet subscriptions.Something recognizable is maintained in the Netherlands, something beautiful, something creative, something of value to all of us. What's valuable is ours. As far as I am concerned, that is a public service broadcaster that is critical of itself and is open to all the changes that are coming towards him and sees it as an opportunity and not a threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u66	Madam President. This bill has a strange route behind it. A lot has been said about that. After the discussion in this house, the Secretary of State's interpretation of the agreements made here led to so much discussion and tightening up of the legal text that we are standing here again today. The law has been passed and parts have entered into force, yet here we are again. Anything can be said about it, but let us have the debate on where we stand now, and that is the question of whether the proposed legislative text now contains everything that has been agreed in the First Chamber. That is what I will focus my contribution on. I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the broadcasters. In the opinion of the Christian Union, broadcasters are not the last ice-shot of the bulwark, as Mr Elias said, but the twenty-first century expression of the cultural diversity of values communities rich in the Netherlands. There are broadcasters in a democratic system. It is important in this legislative proposal that the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters is now made clearer. The NPO must take into account the freedom and responsibility of broadcasters and the freedom and responsibility of broadcasters for the media. This is also made clear in Articles 2.2 and 2.88 of the Media Act. The position of the NPO vis-à-vis broadcasters is therefore better safeguarded, as the steering role is legally framed. According to the explanatory memorandum, broadcasters are also involved in the determination of the position. For example, they can discuss the coordination rules, binding arrangements and annual plans. But how is the involvement formally arranged? The co-ordination rules shall be amended following the adoption of this legislative proposal. This coordination regulation is very important for the formal relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. In what way and at what times will the broadcasters be able to talk and, if possible, advise? How will the Court assess the formal relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters? Has the Secretary of State spoken to the broadcasters and, if so, what is the outcome? The Secretary of State reports that the possibility of objection and appeal is open to broadcasters, for example if they do not agree with the organisation and placement of programmes. This should be done on the basis of the so-called time-sharing decision. But is there enough time for broadcasters to object and appeal against a decision of the NPO? An objection procedure could take a few years and it would be far too late to act. The written reply states that the NPO is about programming and the broadcasters are about the content, but it also states that the programming of the NPO contains substantive frameworks and agreements. It states that the NPO has the power to review each programme proposal in the light of the substantive frameworks and objectives set out in the concession policy plan, the performance agreement, the profiles of supply channels, the agreements with broadcasters, the co-ordination rules and the budget of the NPO. As I interpret the process, I am also referring to the letter of 28 February, signed by the NPO and a large part of the broadcasters, which will soon deal with the content and choices of their programmes. I would ask the Secretary of State to confirm this point once again in this Chamber. In the First Chamber, the Bikker motion was adopted on a better assurance of the position of reflection within the public service. The motion confirms the budget and space in the programming. It is precisely the public service broadcasting that helps us to learn about each other's beliefs and beliefs and thus to unite in Dutch society. The Christian Union considers philosophical programmes indispensable in the programming process. How's the Secretary of State gonna do the Bikker motion? It is good that the role of the Minister of OCW in the appointment of members of the Governing Board and the Supervisory Board of the NPO and RPO is deleted from this proposal. This is also in line with the Mohandis/Segers motion, in which the government is asked to have the NPO's boards no longer appointed by the minister, but only indirectly by the NPO's Supervisory Board. There is an exploration of the role of the minister in the appointments in the public media sector, following a commitment in the Upper Chamber. The exploration is about the appointment procedure at the NOS, the NTR, the Star, the Promotion Fund for the Journalism and the Media Commission. Is the outcome of the reconnaissance known by now? When will the Secretary of State take a broader approach to the appointment procedure? The NPO should organise a representative social advisory council on the basis of the law. Mr Elias also mentioned it. How is this in relation to the member broadcasters, which also involve society in public service broadcasting? Surely, as far as programming is concerned, it is precisely the broadcasters who should perform this task. Moreover, broadcasters already have a legal role to play with public involvement. I'm gonna end up with the regional broadcasters. With the approval of the First Chamber, parts of the Law of 16 March on the regional public media service have already entered into force. I do have a few more questions about the regional broadcasters. For example, there is an approved Heerma/Segers motion which ensures that regional public broadcasters retain editorial staff at provincial level. At the beginning of this month, the Provincial States of Zeeland adopted a motion for their own independent broadcasting with a full editorial system for the Zeeland region. The States stress the importance of an independent position of Omroep Zeeland and the preservation of regional news. How will the Secretary of State carry out the motion Heerma/Segers in this circumstance? Also adopted is the Heerma/Segers motion in which the government is asked to do substantive and financial justice to the special position of the Omrop Fryslân and to make agreements on this matter with the province of Friesland. Following the motion in the First Chamber, the Secretary of State said that he would come up with an arrangement in consultation with the province, the broadcasting and the RPO. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State what's going on with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mr. Chairman. Haste rush is rarely good. At the end of November 2015, a night of catching up ended up with bad legislation. In the end, the First Chamber has also put a stop to this. This bill seeks to resolve the problems with the previous proposal to amend the Media Act. The question is whether that worked. I can see three more flaws. Firstly, that is the role of politics in appointments. The key problem is that in the Media Act, as adopted in November here and on 16 March in the Upper House, the NPO exerts a firm control over the programmes. That's what I was supposed to do. This creates a conflict with the Constitutional Rule 7 (2). That is what I argued in November last year. The government should not interfere with broadcasts. The Secretary of State states that this bill reduces the role of the Minister. The appointment of the members of the Management Board shall be left entirely to the Supervisory Board. In future, the Minister can only influence the final appointments of the members of the Supervisory Board by carrying out a marginal test. This, according to the State Secretary, marks the "position of public service broadcasting and prevents the appearance of unlawful political interference." Problem reduced? Yes, but the appointment of the members of the board was in fact an implementation of the Segers/Mohandis motion, which has just been mentioned. So there is nothing new going on there, because there is still influence and direction in itself, even in this legislative proposal, despite the fact that the Minister is not actively looking for candidates for the Supervisory Board. Indeed, the Minister may still review the nomination of a candidate on the basis of due diligence, legal rules or significant interests. That's very vague. So the question is: what are, for example, "heavy interests"? Moreover, it is a problem that the Minister may suspend or dismiss members of the Supervisory Board in the event of apparent incapacity, dysfunction and incompatibility of functions. In short, there is still a great deal of influence and illegal political interference. If the Minister does not accept an opinion from the advisory committee for a candidate for the supervisory board, he must explain this decision in writing and inform the House of Representatives about it, but now there will be something special that contains information to the House of Representatives which contains no data that can be traced back to a person. That is understandable somewhere, but how can the House of Representatives actually carry out its controlling task? I would like an explanation from the Secretary of State. There is something very strange in this bill, namely that the supervisory board of the NPO is legally obliged to employ an external, commercial consultancy for the selection of candidates for this council. Why should this be required by law? Would it not be better for the Supervisory Board to be given the choice of using an external commercial agency, or to implement it in a different way? The Secretary of State suggests that the measure will make the selection procedure more transparent and objective. But isn't that just appearances? Firstly, the question is to what extent an external commercial agency is actually operating more transparently and objectively. Whose bread is eaten, whose word is spoken. Secondly, the question remains whether there is still a marginal test by the Minister because of this so-called objective and transparent candidate. In short, why would we want to regulate in a law that requires a commercial, external consultancy agency? Just leave that to the Supervisory Board. I have nothing against a recruitment and selection agency, but to lay down a law that must be, seems to me very bad. Public service broadcasting is, for example, the starting point of liberal politics, characterized by external pluralism, by free expression of opinion and by free media for all movements. So we choose democratic broadcasters. My second point is this: what is the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters? Who determines the content? It is a discussion that we have often had and which, of course, has been very explicitly changed by the law. After all, much more power has gone to the NPO. The NPO is sending; that is why we are discussing this at all today. The NPO may also review the programmes of the broadcasting organizations along substantive frameworks. It is therefore not sufficiently clear about the exact role and powers of the NPO in the programme content. Is there censorship here? Are broadcasters still free enough to appoint their own presenters, invite guests, deal with subjects and choose the design for their programmes within this change of law? That's gotta be clip-and-ready. In the debate in the First Chamber, the Secretary of State himself also stated that this should be possible in principle and that he was in favour of it. Then why don't we lay that down legally? Then there's just clarity for all parties. That is why I and Mr Van Dijk have tabled an amendment to the article on this subject. The monitoring and review of programmes shall also be carried out on the programmes made with the guarantee budget of the broadcasting organizations. Broadcasting associations receive a fixed amount to make programmes. That's the guarantee budget. But on the basis of the NPO's assessment of those programs, it can be decided that these programs are not broadcast, for example because they cannot be placed, because the framework is not good or because it is found that they do not fit within a station profile or within the overall command of the NPO. The NPO does not only coordinate in this respect, but also effectively provides for a substantive review. What does it mean if the NPO has to legally ensure that there is room for media coverage for broadcasters with that guarantee budget? Wouldn't it be much better if broadcasters were given a guarantee broadcasting time in addition to the guarantee budget? Now the problem is that you can create programs, but it doesn't help you if they can't be broadcast. Then it's a waste of taxpayers' money. This would mean taking action to ensure that broadcasting time is not censored and the programmes would then disappear in a drawer. Public involvement is the third and last topic I would like to focus on. This is now being worked out, because that was somewhat unclear. So what the hell? The NPO will have the task of setting up a representative social advisory council. Why is it necessary to set up such an advisory council if there are already democratic broadcasting associations with the legal task and basis for public involvement? You're gonna be a member of a network. This actually means a lot of public involvement with a whole range of currents in our Dutch society. Moreover, through these associations it is possible to reach the representation of the Dutch population and to involve the population. So why create a system of unnecessary duplication? Anyway, if something like that comes up, what's representative? The explanatory statement is very vague about this. Something is being said about gender, men and women, and about background. Demographic differences are mentioned. But is that representative? In what way will the NPO give substance to this? In what way will the NPO organise the establishment and establishment of this Advisory Council? Is there a plan for that? It's just vagueness. Moreover, the legislative amendment does not allocate any money to carry out that task. In short, they will be given a task and they will have to do so within the current budget. So they have to make extra money available for that, but they can only spend their euro once. This is mandatory by the legislator, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and it is therefore logical that the budget should be adjusted accordingly, so that it becomes clear at some point that an additional task will also provide additional resources for the NPO. It's obvious. The task of the First Chamber to the Secretary of State was crystal clear: solve the problems we signal and give answers to the uncertainties in the old law. That law was passed, but temporarily suspended. My group's conclusion is clear. The Secretary of State failed to do so. The loose ends are absolutely not tied together and there is still a lot of homework to do to ensure that we actually hold an independent, free-minded public service in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr. Chairman. The average Russian hooligan housed in Marseilles is a miracle of refinement and nuance compared to the way this Secretary of State deals with our state law in this file. The Secretary of State is a recidivist because he refuses to have the most basic traffic with the Chamber. He refuses to answer the most basic question that a Member of Parliament can ask, namely: is the law being implemented? I have been a Member of Parliament for ten years and ten years as media spokesperson, but I have never seen what we are doing here today. It is a foundation of our constitutional law: the First Chamber is the chambre de réflexion. After we've judged a law here, he goes across the street to the Senate. He's looking at it again. The First Chamber lacks the right to change that. It's yes or no, choke or swallow. In my party's opinion, the Senate is superfluous, but if we have it then we must respect the rules and the laws. That's the rule of law. That's state law. On 8 October last year we talked about this law. It had to be fast, fast, fast, or Hilversum would go black. It couldn't wait another day, not a second. The need was so great that our debate only started around midnight and lasted until the smallest hours. The coalition parties wanted no delay. With red eyes, we were sitting here, you complete idiot. I quote the freule: "crazy." She made that statement in 1970 when we were deliberating here even in the smallest hours. Indeed, madness, Mr Elias. I believe that the debate ended around 4 p.m. This meant working hours later for members of the Chamber, for example on the Report and Editorial Service. They will soon be one and a half to two hours sweet to record all our intelligent words for eternity. Some of them live far away. Maybe they were just in time to take their kids to school. For example, the House of Representatives should not deal with its esteemed employees, certainly not now that it was all for nothing, that we have to meet again about this law. The Lower House has been chased by the Secretary of State and we should not accept that. This has made our staff suffer. I assume the Secretary of State will apologize in his term of office. In any case, we know what the Registry's response must be next time the Secretary of State asks for urgent procedure. So much for the household announcements, Mr President. In the meantime, I wonder what concrete progress has been made in the broadcasting sector as it might have taken place between the adoption of the Media Act in the First Chamber and the submission of the supplementary bill to the Second Chamber, which, according to the Secretary of State, really did not allow the Media Act in the First Chamber to be enforced. What exactly has improved since the law was passed on the other side? How are the first talks going? There's another group of people keeping Mr. Dekker out of sleep. Those are the people for whom state law is dear, who understand that our Chamber plays a different role than the Senate. After we passed the law here, he went to the First Chamber. On the other side of the street there was moderate talk of this law. There was a lot of disagreement. They demanded adjustments and promises. That's nice, but not at all the role of the First Chamber. It simply has to say yes or no; there are no more flavors. The Secretary of State took up the senate's desires after three days of meeting and after a lot of wheels and deals and change he included this in this adapted law and that is why we are standing here again. The Second Chamber has now apparently become the chambre de réflexion of the First Chamber. I can't wait to see what happens when the First Chamber demands adjustments again. That's how we keep each other busy. Even more shocking: the First Chamber has now de facto acquired the right of amendment. It can amend laws by requiring adjustments. The cabinet apparently swallows that and then the law is changed. The Senate president, who played a home game at this whole party, said "that a special path is being followed." The Council of State spoke of a remarkable procedure and state scholars called juggling state law. To top it all off, even in the SGP group, we are now aware of'some confusion about the way things are going'. It shouldn't be any crazier. This group even announced this afternoon that it was before your arrival, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that it was not yet clear. We are not going to get a schism about this constitutional issue within the SGP Group, are we? The Secretary of State walks like a drunken sailor who has forgotten where his hotel is, up and down between the Senate and the House of Representatives. Apparently, the Senate is his second love. The bizarre thing is that the House of Representatives now suddenly has to take note of the debates in the House of Representatives to know what has been exchanged and adapted, how that megacoalition between SGP, D66 and some other parties has taken shape. Nice to look into the souls of Mr Nagel and Mrs Gerkens, our colleagues from the Senate, but since when does that belong to the work of the House of Representatives? How does the Secretary of State look back at this whole party? The question is, if the Secretary of State is so eager to respond to the objections that exist about this law in the Upper House, why does he not do so with the objections and questions that exist here in the real, only elected parliament? When we discussed this on 8 October, or was it 9 October, there were questions. My questions and objections from October last year stand like a house. It's back on YouTube. 130,000 people have gone before you. Also today, five people looked at that contribution. Dumpert.nl, that's all I'm saying. It reflects the power of the new media again. I said the same thing at the time: this is an unnecessary debate, because the Secretary of State does not want to address the question of why the government should go on maintaining media. Anyone can start websites, apps, YouTube channels, digital channels, radio on demand and what have you from their own attic room. Why does the government have to crawl in between them? Why should the government also provide moving image in the world of Enzo Knol? That would have been a nice question for a Secretary of State for Liberal House to answer in his third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh term. But he doesn't want to answer that question, probably because he doesn't have a real answer to it, probably because there's no real answer to it. A lot of people watch YouTube and put together their own television channels. Then why do we still need an NPO1 to 3? Why do we still have Radio2? Why do we finance Joop.nl as taxpayers? I am also still waiting for the answer to the fundamental question as to whether the Secretary of State believes that the Media Act is being implemented. That question is always answered by the Secretary of State with the statement that he is not about the content. That's bullshit, of course. The Media Act deals with the content and prescribes everything. This means that the Secretary of State must have an opinion on whether the Media Act is being implemented. The Secretary of State's refusal to answer that simple, basic question also means a blow from the cabinet in the face of parliament. Nice talk about governance, but if the Netherlands1 is given away to the broadcasting of the Socialist Party of Labour, then I think that is a total non-discussion. The Netherlands1 is the flagship of the Dutch broadcaster. If you broadcast the test image there, hundreds of thousands of people will still look at it. It is the transmitter that many have under the first preferred button. That channel is given away to the VARA, the fastest shrinking broadcaster in the Netherlands, the broadcaster of the Labour Party, a splinter party that has been in the polls on eight seats for many years. And that club got the Netherlands1. Governance? Why would it be relevant? Look at all those radio stations that imitate commercial channels. 538 imitates 3FM, Radio10 imitates Radio2. If we have a BNR, why do we still have a Radio1? What is the relevance of governance when Paradise by the dashboard light is turned from state? What about governance if every night we have Peter R. de Vries for $2,000 to attack my party? I am glad that, after their initial cold-water fear, most of my fellow Members are now in full swing at programme title level. Of course, my colleague Segers was talking about Dr. Corrie. Mr Verhoeven mentioned Pino. Mr Elias spoke about the absence of certain programmes during the summer months. Greetings that they have overcome their initial fears. It is good that the media committee has grown so much in recent years, as we are moving towards the end of this period. Broadcasters do not comply with the Media Act, in particular Article 2.1 (2), which refers to a "balanced image of society and high journalistic and professional quality standards." The public service is not for us and all of us, but it's a left-wing party, provided by the reservation. No one who believes in the multicullen, but as a village of Asterix and Obelix, a group of believers stand bravely, regardless of the reality that the whole of the Netherlands sees before them. The public service is therefore not in favour of informing us, but of raising us. Islam is the most beautiful invention since the cut bread and anyone who is Islam-critical is no good. It's been pumped into our living rooms for 40 years. We must learn to see the invasion as refugees. The lady from the board of the NPO speaks of mercy. The fact that there are also fraudsters, jihadists, testosterone bombs and nuisances is preferred to be kept quiet. That doesn't fit in the picture. The presenter of Nieuwsuur learns that you have two kinds of people in Germany: people who welcome the refugees with open arms and do so with a stretched right arm. So anyone who opposes the Islamic invasion is a Nazi. Your daughter must have bothered you in Cologne! And the boss of broadcasting MAX is calling in the gas chambers to keep the borders open and to attack my party. Program after program these days teaches us how great the Ramadan is. That it may not be that healthy, Hilversum will never tell us and that the score after nine days already stands at 72 attacks and 614 deaths. That doesn't fit in the picture, just like the car fires and the riots prefer to remain unnamed. Klokhuis, a program for children that is shown in Dutch classrooms, says that the Ramadan is very good, because you like to get rid of it. A girl in burkini explains that Islam makes her happy. The NPO is now broadcasting daily from Molenbeek, because the Islamic inhabitants are being recited there after all these attacks. It's pathetic! The NTR announced two weeks ago that the blackbird is going to change. Where in Hilversum do they get the guts to adapt our culture to the wishes of a handful of ethnodwepers and their left-wing helpers? Black pussy is not from the Dutch state broadcasting, black pussy is from the Dutch people and it remains so. Black guy's black. State broadcasting has been trying to teach us that there was an Arab spring. By now, 400,000 people have died, in Syria alone. State broadcasting tried to tell us that Barack Hussein Obama became a great president and that Donald John Trump was no good. The left-wing idealism of broadcasting has no boundaries, but sometimes it also means that taxpayers' money, taxpayers' money from this budget, contributes to mass murder. Radio Freedom of the ANC was the new Radio Orange. We had a foundation for Radio Freedom, which got all the facilities from Hilversum. It received millions and was allowed to use Hilversum 3 all day long. The president of the NOS, also Senator of the Labour Party, Erik Jurgens, saw that it was good and put NOS technicians and a lot of tax money into this murder and death transmitter. Radio Freedom was a crucial instrument in the murder of 20,000 Zulu, including children, and the massacres on the largest anti-apartheid movement in South Africa, the Inkatha Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mr Bosma, it is a good practice not to name people who cannot defend themselves in this Chamber. That's what I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u70	But it's someone with a political function, someone who's just a member of the Senate for a party represented here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u71	You have just explained to us the difference between the First and Second Chambers. So let's stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Radio Freedom and therefore also the NOS, the VARA, the VPRO and the KRO, and thus the Dutch taxpayer... contributed to human rights violations and mass murder. The broadcaster believed in the goodness of the transmitter, as it also believes in the goodness of Islam, the goodness of the multicule, the Arab spring and the Ramadan. The NPO is not all of us, but it is against many. It's the program channel of the left elite.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u73	I admit that it is a difficult exercise, but I am simply trying to take Mr Bosma's contribution seriously and listen to the content of his speech. I come to the conclusion that he does not entirely agree with the way in which the NPO is programmed and how things are going there. But why did he vote against the law last time and why is he presumably going to do that from his contribution? No matter how you turn it or turn it, what he finds so abominable is broken open in the sense that at least up to 50% will be the possibility for other people than those he hates to program. It is not so consistent and not so logical, but perhaps it is Mr Bosma's umpteenth twist that I do not understand very well. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u74	The wriggles are at most in Mr Elias's head if he blames me for a lack of consistency. It is very consistent, because the NPO still remains supreme, in any construction, even in the construction of this law 2.0. So I have no reason to be optimistic, no reason to expect anything to improve in Hilversum. That's what I'm gonna find out. In a few years, we'll be back here and I'll be right. Nothing will change, because the institutions are too strong for that and the opinions are too much embedded in those institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u75	Is it or is it not a fact that if this law is adopted, there is the possibility that people from outside the broadcasting system can come up with programme proposals that will be implemented on public broadcasting? Is that a fact or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u76	That fact has been a fact for a long time, because Joop van den Ende has grown big by coming up with programme proposals, like many producers. There are even rules that a certain percentage of programmes should be taken away from outside producers. That's how it's always been arranged, and at the end of the day the NPO remains supreme. Although this is now enshrined in a law, I see no reason why something is going to change in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u77	We are now going to listen to Mr Heerma on behalf of the CDA as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u78	Mr. Chairman. Last October we discussed the new Media Act in this house. Since then, this bill has made a special journey. As several speakers have said before me, the Council of State in its opinion indicated that it was a remarkable procedure. Let us go back to the beginning of this discussion. That was the report of the Council for Culture Time is open, a report that clearly states that in a rapidly changing media landscape, the question is how a public broadcaster can survive in the future, in a rapidly changing digital world, with great international competition. That report proposed two changes: more control from the NPO and greater access by outside producers to the order. But the strength of the opinion was elsewhere, not in the changes proposed, but in the fact that the power of our broad, pluralist broadcasting system was taken into account. It therefore did not revolutionize it, but modernise it with a view to future stability. Then there was a lot of discussion about how the Secretary of State dealt with that advice, starting with a somewhat too tough presentation on the old Veronica ship. The debate that we then had here in the Lower House following the report of the Council of Culture, the presentation of the Secretary of State and the legislative proposal that followed, focused on three main issues: the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters; the question of whether politics is sufficiently remote, the governance debate; and transparency about the costs of programmes. A majority in this house forced the Secretary of State to move on all three points in relation to his original position. This was not always the case in this debate, which indeed lasted until early morning. The discussion on these three subjects continued in the Upper House in all intensity. This eventually led to a law that was passed, especially with regard to the parts related to regional broadcasters, but also to the fact that a large part of that law would not enter into force until this additional legislative proposal was discussed here. What's in here now? A first point is the debate on governance, the sufficiently remoteness of politics. In this house there was a Mohandis/Segers motion, which was supported by a majority. In the First Chamber they actually went even further. Ultimately, here is a proposal that goes beyond the content of that motion, but is in line with what various groups have advocated in the first term, namely that the supervisors should also be placed at a distance. The explanation is that this is important for the independence of public service broadcasting, but also to prevent the appearance of unlawful political interference. That is a good thing. I also think it is a good thing that there is a rotation schedule for the supervisory board. This has already been advocated here by various groups. It would be a good thing for continuity. This has also been taken into account, in line with the wishes of my group in this debate, but also, in my view, with those of several political groups. I come to the second point, the cooperation between the NPO and the broadcasters. There is a clearer definition of the proportions. This is in line with what has been discussed here. This was worked out in the concession policy plan, in a letter we received at the hearing in this Chamber on 30 September and then again, and more specifically, in a letter dated 28 February from the broadcasters and the NPO to the First Chamber. This bill therefore fills in the frameworks, in line with the Segers/Heerma motion, but actually goes a step further, because it is now also laid down in the law. Here too: advocate in the Lower House, but now also laid down in the law, in line with the Segers/Heerma motion. The third point concerns the extent to which cost transparency is completed at which level, the Mohandis/Verhoeven motion (34264, No. 26). The Secretary of State disagreed with the content of this motion. But on this point, too, the law stipulates that the Chambers are involved and that this is done at genre level. This has been clearly stated by the Secretary of State. Fine. It actually goes beyond what had already been achieved in the House of Representatives, but is in line with what the House of Representatives advocated. I do have a question on the fourth point: public involvement. Several colleagues have already asked for this. Can the Secretary of State explain exactly the added value of the representative social advisory council and how it relates to the broadcasting association? I believe that Mr Elias has already asked for this. What struck me in a letter from the AVROTROS member council is that it indicates that it has never spoken to the Secretary of State. There's never been a conversation. I think this is a separate matter for a State Secretary for Media, because it concerns members' associations representing 3.5 million members of broadcasters. Is it true that the Secretary of State has never spoken to the members' councils? Does he intend to do this after all? I would strongly advise him to do so. I read in the letter an outstretched hand; they would like to see it. Then I would like to move on to a point that has also been explicitly discussed in the First Chamber, namely the position of the Viewing Guide of the Netherlands Institute for the Classification of Audiovisual Media (NICAM). I have just interrupted my colleague from the SGP. This subject follows the discussions we have had here earlier on the future of the Watchpoint. In various debates with the Secretary of State, I indicated that this Viewing Point is a fine tool for the protection of young children and that the support of parents for the system is enormous. During the latest media legislative consultation in November 2015, a motion was also adopted calling for the modernisation of legislation on this issue, following Norway's example. Not only for linear television, a system such as the Viewing Pointer should be used, but also for other platforms. The Secretary of State has indicated that he is going to look at this modernisation. He was also going to investigate the question of whether the system could also apply to advertising. Is the Secretary of State going to look at these two cases in conjunction? In the note following the report, the State Secretary indicated that he would return to the commitments to the SGP Group before the summer. Does this also mean that before the summer we will have the elaboration of the Heerma motion on the modernisation of the Viewing Pointer? Or are those two cases being disconnected? The various letters and the note relating to the report differed. I wonder if the Secretary of State can tell us what's going on. I'm gonna finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u79	Mr Verhoeven has one more question before you finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u80	I would like to talk about the Watchpoint and the question of how wide it should be. Should the Watchpoint also deal with online business and advertising, or should it just be limited to television? Mr Heerma has a logical way of thinking about this. I just remembered that I think we even supported his motion. It's best to look at channel-neutrally which instruments are possible. But what does Mr Heerma think of the sauce that the SGP poured over it? After all, that is clearly a political sauce. The SGP does not want a Second Love and has therefore devised a political path to achieve it. I find that much more dangerous. Is Mr. Heerma gonna take these things apart? Does he think that making an instrument canal neutral is part of a substantive discussion on modernisation? And does he think that it should be completely separate from the political desire of the SGP..........................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u81	I think that Mr Verhoeven's summary does not do justice to Mr Bishop's speech just now. I also specifically asked Mr Bishop how he sees this. I think that is how I have interpreted it in any case. The SGP believes that we should consider whether the self-regulation system, including coding, aimed at preventing damage in children............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I think the Secretary of State has agreed to investigate this. As far as I am concerned, that is not a political sauce, but a broadening of a system that is remote from politics for another medium. I don't know if that's gonna be easy to do for commercials. In fact, I think that's gonna be pretty complicated. However, we should not turn it into something it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u82	I think that's a little naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u83	Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u84	You're welcome. I think it is naive for someone who is generally able to get the political points out of the debates and is always very busy with relations between the political parties. At least that's how we know Mr Heerma. He suddenly pretends that this is a very common and substantive proposal from the SGP and that the SGP has not been on television with its foreman I will not mention the name of Mr Van der Staaij here in any other way. It's just a political point of the SGP. That is the right of the SGP, but the question is whether the CDA should lend itself to this. I can imagine that we are extending it to online matters, as proposed in the Heerma motion, because nothing has yet been settled in this area. However, we already have a form of monitoring of advertising with the Advertising Code Commission. Why, therefore, should we extend it with another instrument? In short, I do have some practical questions on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u85	It is interesting that Mr Verhoeven here puts something like very political, but then makes a political attempt to make this proposal something different from what it is. Mr Bishop has just made it quite clear in his reply to my question that there is already a NICAM system. So there is already self-coding and that system is not controlled by politics. The scientific basis for this is the prevention of harm in children. Mr Verhoeven has indeed supported my motion on this point before. There is nothing wrong with that system and there is no political direction. I don't know if enlargement is possible. I don't think the Secretary of State knows that either, but it's under investigation right now. I have only one simple question on this point: is the motion Heerma, which is widely supported, also by the D66 Group, involved in the implementation? It's no more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u86	It is touching to hear how concerned Mr Verhoeven is about the possible disappearance of Second Love from the air. He is right to say that the SGP would not regret this. In my view, Mr Heerma thinks that Mr Verhoeven is unnecessarily worried, that he should turn off his blinders and look a little wider, because we need to ensure that there is a good and modern self-regulatory system, where advertising may also be covered. That is also what the Secretary of State has promised. May I summarize Mr Heerma's speech in this way? Is that a good explanation of his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u87	I don't think the Secretary of State in the First Chamber has ever said that he's going to see if advertising for Second Love can be banned. There is another question. There is already a nice self-regulating system, namely the watchpoint of the NICAM. I can advise all colleagues who have never visited them to do so. That system is really something very beautiful and has a lot of support for parents, because it helps to protect their children. The question is whether that system could also apply to advertising. That is a difficult question, but it is a legitimate question. The Secretary of State is investigating that. That's fine. My question to the Secretary of State is: is this included in the modernisation of the NICAM, including for other platforms, as we have asked the Secretary of State, or is that investigation entirely separate from that? I don't think it's any more complicated than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u88	I share Mr Heerma's approach that it would adorn D66 to stop framing it like the SGP is asking because Second Love has to be off the air. Of course, we'd like to get rid of that site, but not by political means. I thank Mr Heerma for his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u89	Clear. I'm rounding up. As far as I am concerned, the three main points of this legislative proposal are further improvements in a direction that we advocated when discussing the first legislative proposal in October. These are further improvements and clarifications to a law that my group in this House has already voted for. I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u90	The question is what Mr Heerma means by the word 'group'. Is that with or without the First Chamber? We all know that Mr Heerma's colleagues voted against in the First Chamber, especially spokesperson Joop Atsma, my former colleague, who was media spokesperson in the Second Chamber a few years ago. Mr Atsma had particular problems with the fact that the NPO was given more power over the broadcasters. I thought that was a very legitimate position. What exactly is the position of the CDA, for example when the party enters the elections? Does Mr Heerma agree with me that, in the event of a dispute between the NPO and the broadcaster about the content of a programme, broadcasting may ultimately decide?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u91	The interesting thing is that we have adopted several motions in this House in the context of this debate: the Van Dijk motion and the Segers/Herma motion, which the SP Group has also supported. That discussion has been brought further into the First Chamber, partly by the senator of my party. The motion, which Mr Van Dijk also supported, states that the agreements between NPO and broadcasters should be leading. That's not just leading the bill that's here. It's also incorporated into the law. There's something I need to get off my chest. Mr Van Dijk is here taking everyone's attention to consistency, but I have looked at his contribution to this legislative proposal in the first place and I must say that he is now much more critical than in October. In October, the change was "not drastic." It wasn't that bad in practice. The Secretary of State had been very tough, but it wasn't really that big a deal. In line with the argument that various groups have held here, it has now moved forward, as we have all advocated. But now Mr Van Dijk has suddenly become more critical! If he's holding a mirror in front of others, maybe he should take a look at it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u92	I saw that Mr Heerma was reading to me when he quoted me, but is he sure that paper was not from Mr Verhoeven? It is very nice to discuss my text in the answer to my interruption, but Mr Heerma could have just interrupted me. He didn't, so I'd like to answer my question now. Where does the CDA stand in a dispute between broadcasting and NPO? That is precisely not laid down in the law. The broadcasters rightly have concerns about this. That remains vague in this law. The Klein/Van Dijk amendment clarifies this. The broadcasters then decide on substantive points, such as the choice of a presenter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u93	The approach of the CDA group in the Lower House is laid down in the Segers/Heerma motion. This motion concerns the concession policy plan and the letter that has been sent to it. Moreover, Mr Verhoeven was very angry about the role that that letter was given there in the second period of the legal process. So our approach is recorded in that motion. The First Chamber and, yes, Mr Atsma have gone even further in this respect. The result is that it is in the law before us, but in line with that motion. I read it out: it was not Mr Verhoeven, it was really Mr Van Dijk himself who attacked the Secretary of State in his first term in October and said that it had been too tough, that it had little more to do with it, that it was all okay in practice. And now, after treatment in the First Chamber and after some adjustments in line with what the SP advocated here in October, Mr Van Dijk has suddenly become more critical. Again, addressing each other on consistency is fine, I say to Mr Van Dijk, but please read back your own contribution from October.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u94	I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk for a brief final question. May I ask both of you to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u95	Mr Heerma gives a very creative interpretation of my contribution to the first round of this law in October. Who decides on a dispute, the NPO or the broadcasters? There's a conflict about that now. Be clear! Do you support Amendment No Klein-Van Dijk, which allows broadcasters to decide, yes or no? Make your position known!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u96	I will look into it, but I will not support it, because the amendment goes far beyond what I have advocated here in the first legislative procedure. And it goes far beyond what you yourself, Mr Van Dijk, have advocated in the first term by supporting that Segers/Heerma motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u97	Of course, I am already very pleased with Mr Heerma's opening that he is going to assess the amendment at all. That gives you confidence. In fact, however, it is in line with the content of the explanatory memorandum and the report and also with the input of the CDA into the report, and the CDA has also made it very clear that it does not want the NPO to have an impact on the content of those programmes. This is explicitly stated in the note on the basis of the report. The Secretary of State has indicated that this is not the intention at all. In that case, it would be wise to simply record that in a simple way, so that there would be no appeal procedures, appeal procedures and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u98	The note on the report dealt with the questions raised by various political groups and the Secretary of State replied to them. Relevantly, for my group, three points were important in the previous legislative process. The first point was the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters, which we recorded in the Segers/Heerma motion. The current state of affairs is that this legislative proposal goes beyond what was before it. The second point was transparency at genre level, as laid down in the Mohandis-Verhoeven motion. The proposal before us goes beyond what we all supported at the time. Finally, the third point was the Mohandis/Segers motion, which deals with governance, the distance from politics. Just now, Mr Verhoeven praised the role played by the First Chamber to further that. My group voted in favour of a law in October which, as far as I am concerned, now contains three improvements compared to that time. So I am going to propose to my group that we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u99	What is preventing Mr Heerma and the CDA from doing what the CDA has done in the First Chamber to get the bill even better? It is not a question of whether this proposal is bad, it is a different consideration, it is a question of how to get it even better. How can you do justice to the principles of the CDA on the freedom of broadcasting organizations to actually make programmes the way they want to do it, and how can we guarantee that? Or does Mr Heerma think that this is not really necessary, and does he think it is okay that if the broadcasters do something wrong, then the NPO will hit them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u100	This bill is more formal. That was the debate on the Segers/Herma motion. A number of things that have come back from the First Chamber are a further framework. Furthermore, it is also mentioned that the NPO should take account of that role of broadcasters. That is a further improvement and I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u101	Let's take a look back at the role the CDA played in this law. Mr Heerma has all wonderful stories and actually says: the law has improved even further in the First Chamber, compared to what we had invented in the Second Chamber. He then gives examples of this. Isn't it really weird that the CDA in the First Chamber voted against the bill despite all these improvements? If you're standing here proclaiming that things have all gotten better in the First Chamber while you voted against yourself in the First Chamber, then surely you're nothing but a totally unreliable partner to this law? Does the CDA not think that it has played a very chordical, caricature and unreliable role in this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u102	No, but that won't surprise Mr Verhoeven. If he does reflect the voting behaviour of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, then it is also a good thing that he reads the explanation of vote. Joop Atsma in the Upper Chamber says that he cannot support what is in the end because of the remarkable procedure. I cannot anticipate what my First Parliamentary Group is going to do with this bill. That discussion will be held in the First Chamber. For Mr Verhoeven too, it is good to look at his own role when he talks about consistency. We're talking about consistency in one term. He just started his speech with a flaming statement that the Secretary of State had given everything away in the First Chamber: he was kept on a leash and should have given everything away. Mr Verhoeven has praised his own group for its role in this. Then he said at the end of the same term: there's really nothing here. It can't be both true. You cannot boast your group in the First Chamber because the Secretary of State had to give everything away and then say that there is an empty bill here. Mr Verhoeven's own consistency is also an interesting reflection point in a single period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u103	It is very nice that Mr Heerma has apparently come to this debate with trembling knees and has spent a number of hours to counter these justified attacks by his colleagues. He was of course terrified that he would be thrown in front of him that the CDA here is a traffic light, namely green in the Lower House and red in the Upper Chamber: inimitable politics of a party that is always so against the backrooms. This sucks. Indeed, I have said that the Secretary of State has blown very high off the tower and that there is very little left of his big words. I have a question for Mr Heerma. If, as a political party, you are working endlessly in backrooms to put everything into your hand, then in the Lower House you support a bill that no longer supports in the First Chamber purely because of broadcasting political interests of the past and then in the Second Chamber you proclaim that what happened in the First Chamber is so incredibly good, then do you keep a story that is in no way sustainable? Then you're just trying to save your own ass and try to get away with it, aren't you? Let's be honest: isn't it very strange how the CDA acted under this law? You can't repeat that, can you? That should be my question. Is this possible for the CDA to repeat?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u104	In this debate, Mr Verhoeven appears to be the Maradona of rhetoric: at the ball he is inimitable. I would like to quote a wise man in this debate. A wise man stated in his first term that the Secretary of State had to move more in the Upper Chamber because he had no majority there. A wise man also said in his first term: we do not have our first parliamentary groups on a string. Then a wise man complimented the work done by the First Chamber to correct a number of things. I can only endorse these three positions by Mr Verhoeven in his first term. In addition, he was already angry about the role of the CDA in maintaining the columns in broadcasting country. Apparently, he's just as angry about the same role the CDA played in the First Chamber in that legal treatment. Yet there remains a law that he can support, because he is actually nothing. That is the consistency of Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u105	The Secretary of State has requested a few minutes' suspension. I shall suspend the sitting until 6.30 p.m. and then proceed with the reply by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u106	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I note that the number of interruptions is up to three. I see Mr Verhoeven looking very happy and that an interruption consists of a question and a follow-up question. There's another debate on the agenda tonight. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr. Chairman. In October last year I stood in this Chamber to deal with the amendment of the Media Act. It was a long, but in my view good debate. A broad majority of the Chamber agreed to the bill to make public service broadcasting future-proof. After that, there was a lot of discussion about the bill, mainly across the street, in the Upper House. We've been asked what that means for that bill. I note that the core of the law is fully standing. The task has been tightened. Instead of everything, we are talking about information, culture and education. The order is opened for external parties. The NPO gets a bigger, stronger and more controlling role. The regional public media system is being organised more effectively. A few questions were asked about that. That was one of the reasons that there was pace behind this bill. These changes ensure that national public service broadcasting is more distinctive and platform independent. The law leads to more creative competition and more commonality in the performance of the public task. It is also a first step towards a more effective regional system. Fortunately, the First Chamber also saw this interest and, after a number of assents and commitments on my part, finally agreed to the proposal. The proposal was published in the Official Journal on 16 March. The measures relating to the Regional Public Broadcasting Act entered into force at that time. That was important. Although it has been delayed for several months, I have made agreements with the regional broadcasters, but the RPO foundation has now been appointed and the Supervisory Board of the RPO has been appointed. The elements of the Law of 16 March on National Public Broadcasting have not yet entered into force. This will only happen after the legislative proposal before us today has been accepted by the Upper House. I have promised her that I will do my best to submit that bill to her before the summer, so I am very pleased that this Chamber is so eager to deal with it. I hope, of course, for an early and, above all, positive vote afterwards. In concrete terms, the question was what progress has been made since the adoption of the bill. The Nederlandse Publice Omroep is working on the development of the concession policy plan and is preparing a number of measures that are contained in this law. He does, of course, need the law to be able to effect it. This also applies to the definition of the concession policy plan and performance agreements, which need to be further completed. Those are a number of things that we can quickly work on when this bill has been passed through both chambers. The supplementary bill, which we are debating today, actually contains only proposals that have already been announced to both chambers. The letter of 4 March 2016 specifically covers topics such as the appointment procedures, the clarification of the relationship between the NPO and broadcasters, the strengthening of public engagement and the transparency procedure on programming costs. I'd like to answer the questions in a few blocks. Firstly, I would like to say something about the progress of the whole process of this legislative proposal so far, also in relation to a previous legislative amendment. Secondly, I would like to comment on the change in the appointment procedure. Thirdly, I come to the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. Fourthly, I answer the questions about public involvement. In the fifth place, I deal with a number of things that still remain, for example about the Viewing Point, the regional broadcasters and online advertising. Let me start with the first one. The procedure followed by the Law of 16 March and this bill is an exceptional route. A number of Members of Parliament have stressed this. This is also mentioned in the opinion of the Council of State. At the same time, it's not unique. A similar procedure has also been followed in dealing with the amendment of the Telecommunications Act, the Notary Law and the Tickets Act. The reason why this procedure has been proposed to the First Chamber is in order to be able to take a number of necessary steps as soon as possible for the creation of regional broadcasters. They're gonna see a cutback coming. It's been booked in by now. This has already been done in previous legislation. It will start on 1 January and will amount to 17 million a year. They've come up with a plan for that. I think there's support for that plan. However, regional broadcasters need an important element of this legislative proposal to be able to work on it. That has happened by now. At the same time, with this procedure, I respected the wish of the First Chamber that the part of the law relating to national broadcasting should not enter into force until a number of additions and clarifications were introduced. The First Chamber has agreed to this proposal, which is also important, and it is now before us. In the meantime, has there been any contact with broadcasters and members' councils? To what extent are they involved? During the drafting of the bill of 16 March and the handling of it by the House of Representatives, broadcasters were regularly involved. For example, several interviews have been held with the College of Appeals (CoR). The letters of the broadcasters and the NPO are explicitly involved in the drafting and handling of the bill. The clarification of the relationship between broadcasters and the NPO in this bill is also based on the letter dated 28 February 2016. In this way, members of associations have also been indirectly involved. It was asked whether there was a conversation with the broadcasters who did not sign the letter. My officials have certainly had that. I myself intend to do so, but the content of the letter of 28 February is, as far as I am concerned, also the content of the law. Within the context of the amended law and the letter that is already there, I would like to talk to the three broadcasters about their concerns and wishes for the future. Mr Bishop asked why no internet consultation has been launched. The bill contains a number of additions and clarifications directly related to the earlier, larger law of 16 March. Like the First Chamber, I attach great importance to an early treatment, so that there is rapid clarity and rapid progress. That's why they didn't choose it. That is not mandatory, by the way. Mr Heerma asked if there could be contact with the members' councils. I know that these are important bodies for the broadcasting organizations. My officials have, of course, had several discussions on my behalf with the College of Appeals and on the draft of the already adopted law of 16 March also with Members' Councils, but I would also like to have personal discussions with Members' Councils if there is a need for it. I'm moving on to the appointments. In my view, there is room for improvement in the current appointment procedures, which have been established for years. That's the reason for the reconnaissance I'm having carried out. I've promised her before, too, and she's getting a little expanded. This review concerns the current procedures for appointments in the media sector involving the Minister. However, there are already a number of reasons for changing the procedure. The steering role of the NPO makes a greater distance from the government desirable. The debate in the First Chamber of 16 March on the law has also given a number of concrete indications for this. This is important because it can prevent the appearance of political influence. Mr Van Dijk asked me how I looked back at the discussion on the appointment of Bruno Bruins. Of course, I'm unbelievable about that. I don't think the image that came into being is right. I also think that it does not do justice to how it really happened; of course I would have liked to see it differently. I think that we can avoid this in future with the proposals we are making here. Mr Van Dijk also asked if, when I say that it did not happen, I am prepared to make public the documents relating to that appointment procedure. There's a WOB request to reveal that. Several people need to be consulted for this, but we are obviously going to finish this neatly and I will ensure that the Chamber also receives a copy of it. The precise changes to this bill relate first of all to the Board of Directors of the RPO and of the NPO. This means that the Minister's consent to the appointment, suspension and resignation of the Management Board will disappear. These tasks will be placed directly with the Supervisory Board in the future. Mr Mohandis and Mr Segers had asked to explore and investigate this. We're gonna do that right now. A specific case may arise in anticipation of the entry into force of the law. It is known that Henk Hagoort is leaving. I can imagine that the Supervisory Board would like to fill that vacancy quickly. I have indicated that I respect the line of the legislative proposal before us. In other words, the Supervisory Board will make the appointment without my intervention. The second amendment proposed in this legislative proposal is not about the Management Board but about the Supervisory Board. For the appointment procedure for the Supervisory Boards of both the NPO and the RPO, the changes mean that the recruitment and selection process is to be placed outside the Minister, further from the Minister in this case, is that the Secretary of State with a whole pride of guarantees. I'm not going to read it to the Chamber again, but they're in the bill and in the explanatory statement. These guarantees should ensure that the process is more remote and that any appearance of interference is avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u108	I am pleased, also on behalf of other groups, that the next appointment to the NPO is already made in accordance with the spirit of the law. I have a very simple question on that. That's a good thing, but can we do it until the law comes into force? It should not be the case that this will be regarded as unlawful again, because it has been done without the Minister's consent, as is actually provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u109	Mr Mohandis has a point. The Minister will have to formally agree. In this case, that is the Secretary of State, but the law only refers to ministers. So I will do so automatically, regardless of the proposal submitted to me. Mr Klein asks whether the Minister still has a role to play in this whole controversy of guarantees that are being made. Yes. From the point of view of ministerial responsibility, I think it is important for you to be able to intervene in the event of dysfunction. There may sometimes be significant interests to deviate from the nomination of candidates for the Supervisory Board. However, these important interests are limited in law. These are matters of such a nature that they seriously hamper the trust in the proper functioning of the candidate, endanger confidence in the position or otherwise seriously harm the position of the Supervisory Board. What do you have to think about? Those are matters in the field of criminal offences or undercurate. They can weigh heavily. If this happens, it will always be presented to the Chamber in an open and transparent manner, but in such a way that the persons concerned are not damaged, i.e. anonymised or confidential. You better hope it doesn't happen. If everything is done properly, this type of case must be prevented. However, if it does happen, we will ensure that we do not harm individuals. Mr Klein also asked why the obligation to employ a recruitment agency was included in the whole of safeguards. I want the selection to be as open, transparent and objective as possible. In that sense, I find a form of co-optation in which the Supervisory Board itself recruits candidates less transparent. That is why I firmly believe that this will continue to be the case. Mr Elias noted that the Management Board and the Supervisory Board were more remotely placed. It's an organization that deals with public money. Can we keep an eye on that later? Can we still control that? What about democratic control? In my view, the fact that the Minister does not appoint himself does not affect democratic control. Within the constitutional framework, the ruler always places responsibility on the parliament, and the NPO must, of course, continue to fulfil a number of responsibilities. The NPO is accountable to the Minister for the performance of the public task and thus, kicked through me, to Parliament. For this, it is not necessarily necessary for supervisors and directors to be appointed directly. There are other forms for this, such as the law, the independent supervisor and the Commissariat. Even if there really were serious job neglect, there would be an opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u110	I would like to comment on the external consultancy. I agree with the Secretary of State that co-optation is not the best way to obtain new members for the Supervisory Board. In fact, it is a matter of ensuring that we have a transparent and sound accountability for the way in which a member of the Supervisory Board has been appointed. To include in the law that a commercial consultancy should be involved is, in my view, a bridge too far. Wouldn't it be much better to give the Supervisory Board the urgent advice, for example, to call an agency, but to give the Board the room to choose? Surely that's not what the Secretary of State guarantees by including a commercial consulting firm in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u111	Nor does the law require it to be a commercial agency. It's a recruitment and selection agency. Mr Klein has a point when he says that you could also describe it at a higher level of aggregation in the law, namely that there must be an open and transparent procedure. However, we would have had the discussion in the Chamber which would then be an open and transparent procedure. Does this offer sufficient assurance in the future that this procedure is actually open and transparent? That is why we have chosen to lay down more concrete steps to be taken: the creation of the profiles, an open advertisement, so an open recruitment, and the involvement of a recruitment and selection agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u112	Finally, I'd like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u113	But the bill now states that it is mandatory to employ an external agency. I do not know of an external recruitment and selection agency that is not commercial. That means it's just an obligation. If it were a can-determine, it would give us room. But it's an obligation. So why doesn't the Secretary of State put it at a higher level of aggregation to ensure that openness and transparency are guaranteed and not the Bureau?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u114	That is a question of political choice. I think it would be useful to prescribe this in more detail at the moment, just as we also prescribe that there should be an open advertisement and that profiles should be made. We could have chosen not to describe that. It's not that detailed in the current law either. However, if we take this step and say that it should be a little more remote from politics, more objective and more transparent, I think it is important that we operationalise how to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u115	I suggest you move on and move on a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr Elias asked about the point system. I think it is good to emphasise that the NPO is already covered by the rating system for supervisors. If I interpret Mr Elias' question in such a way that we have to look at the gravity of the supervisory function which is, of course, getting a little heavier here, I can say that it is true that in many sectors the social importance and weight of supervision have been taken into account. If you want to look at something like this, it should apply not only to the media, so to this appointment, but also to supervisors. Then you're going to weigh a little bit: one supervisory function is a little heavier than the other, so that should translate into points. I think that this will make the system complicated and difficult to implement, but I am quite prepared to bring the idea to the attention of my colleague from V and J. Mr Van Dijk asked about the possibility of the works council making a binding nomination. Now the works council can make a recommendation, but not a binding nomination. I'm very much in favour of keeping it that way. A supervisory board and a management board are not just individual appointments. There's got to be a good team. In doing so, attention needs to be paid to diversity. Binding nominations prevent that process. In his speech, Mr Mohandis referred to further exploration. He asked me what was going on with that. I have promised the First Chamber that I will look at the role of the Minister in appointments that are somewhat broader than the appointments that are being modified here. This concerns appointments to the NOS, the NTR, the Media Commissioner, the Star and the Journalism Fund. Like the First Chamber, I think it is important that we do this carefully and that we include domain expertise. In particular, Mrs Sent asked for this in the Upper Chamber. The exploration is therefore carried out by a number of independent experts. It is important to find a mix. Experts should have expertise and knowledge in the public media system, in the field of ministerial responsibility and in the field of good governance and its latest developments. In the meantime, I have found two experts willing to cooperate. These are Inge Brakman, you all know, and Sjoerd Zijlstra, Professor of State and Administrative Law at the VU in Amsterdam. The reconnaissance starts in the short term. I suspect that after the summer, in the autumn, I will be able to forward the results to the Chamber. Now I move on to the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. I see the stronger role of the NPO as a prerequisite for gaining more capacity for action, more commonality and also more cooperation within national public service broadcasting. It is the task of the NPO to steer the strategy of public service broadcasting as a whole. This is what the NPO does by monitoring the execution of the task..................................................................................................................................................................................................... The NPO can achieve efficiency by controlling efficiency, for example in the use of studios and technology. Very important and new in the legislative proposal of 16 March is the competence of the NPO to bring in programme proposals from outside by independent and external parties, for example for themes or target groups where public service broadcasting is not yet well represented. Then, of course, it's not just about the NPO. We must also preserve the unique power of broadcasters. They are and will remain responsible for making programmes, and they should also be able to fulfil this responsibility in the case of proposals from an external party with which they act as co-producer. The NPO should always take into account the freedom and responsibility of broadcasters for the form and content of the media offerings when carrying out its tasks. The latter is also explicitly included in this legislative proposal. Because what does this bill do? This bill provides more explanation, more clarity about the frameworks within which the NPO should work. The NPO has a steering role based on joint agreements. The strategy is described in a number of key policy-making documents: the concession policy plan, the performance agreement, the profiles of the supply channels and the coordination rules, including the annual plans. Moreover, this is all documents in which broadcasters are also involved in the creation of these documents. Mr Bruins asked exactly how the broadcasters are involved. There is a subdivision to be made. The Media Act lays down the role of the College of Broadcasting in the concession policy plan, performance agreement, profiles and budget. Then we are talking about the policy documents. Then we go to agreements about the execution. Thus, the broadcasters themselves are party to the agreements on quantitative and qualitative objectives for the media supply and the public coverage. There is, in a manner of speaking, a kind of contract between the board of directors and the broadcasters. Then you have to think of agreements on the budget for programmes with which a broadcaster is also able to conclude multi-annual contracts. Occasionally, such agreements are also made, for example, on online policies. A good example is the agreement in the letter of 28 March, which includes both the signature of the NPO and the signatures of at least a large part of the broadcasters. A third battle is the establishment of the NPO's working methods. When the Governing Board draws up or intends to amend a binding regulation, such as the co-ordination regulation, it always consults the broadcasters. Of course he doesn't do that for nothing. That also often makes the arrangements better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u117	Before you go to the next block, there are interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u118	I wasn't planning on going to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u119	Then I suggest you finish this block first. Then the MPs will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u120	The question on the table, which has been asked by several spokesmen, is: does this provide sufficient certainty and clarity about what is going on in the NPO and what is going on in the broadcasters? In my view, that is the case. In programming practice, it means that the NPO has the responsibility to draw up a genre scheme, with objectives to be met by the programme proposals. Think, for example, of the genre or the objective when it comes to the specific target group or the range that a programme should have. The NPO makes a schedule in consultation with the broadcasters. The genre scheme is drawn up on the basis of the substantive frameworks, the documents I mentioned: the concession policy plan, the profiles and so on. But that also means that the choices for presenters, guests and subjects chosen in a consumer programme or journalism in a topical programme are not part of those substantive frameworks. In my view, the NPO and the broadcasters also made very clear agreements on this in the letter of 28 February. I'm not gonna take anything off those appointments. So that will soon be translated into the coordination element and thus be the basis for working in practice. After a genre schedule has been drawn up, it is time for the broadcasters to submit their programme proposals on the schedule. There are always multiple entries in the same place, so the NPO has to check which proposal fits best with a certain time slot and in the genre scheme. The results shall be recorded by the NPO. At the time when a programme proposal from a broadcaster has been granted and placed, the NPO can no longer interfere with the development of the programme. It is then entirely up to the broadcasters to make a programme on the basis of the proposal, thereby making editorial and journalistic choices. The NPO can only assess afterwards, so after broadcasting, whether the program has been made in accordance with the previous agreements. This is all fully in line with the agreements made in the letter of 28 February. In some cases there is an appeal and objection possible. Mr Bruins asked whether that is real in time. The answer to that is yes. Decisions may be the subject of an ordinary appeal and an objection within the time limit of the AWB. Genre schemes and programming decisions are often made very far in advance, because you already decide in advance what the programming should be. After that, the programmes still have to be made. Mr Klein asked about the guarantee of broadcasting time. The guarantee budget for broadcasters has not changed in the law. The law contains a provision that ensures that the programmes made with the budget are also placed by the NPO. What is important, however, is that the provision as it stands now in the law has been modernised and replaced by the old broadcasting and posting guarantees, which were extremely inflexible and did not take into account media offerings on different platforms. So much for this cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u121	Mr Verhoeven wishes to place an interruption. Mr Van Dijk is already at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u122	It doesn't really matter who gets to speak first, because I think our questions are on the same subject. The Secretary of State has always said that he feels that there is too much consultation in Hilversum. He has always called for that to end, all those little directors with their own organizations, all those endless discussions. That is a very important point of this Secretary of State. He then had two letters from Hilversum, both of which were made part of the law under pressure from the polder parties in the Chamber. The outcome is that the NPO must carry out its guiding tasks on the basis of the concession policy plan, the performance agreement, the profiles of the supply channels, the budget, the arrangements with broadcasters, the coordination rules, the annual plans, etc. That is what all broadcasters are involved in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u123	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u124	The question is that the Secretary of State cannot deny that this is absolutely a recipe for displeasure and ambiguity, but also a recipe for many more endless meetings under that Hilversum stolp? That's exactly what the Secretary of State didn't want, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u125	I disagree with Mr Verhoeven. I think it's a good thing to clarify the responsibilities of the various parties at the front. That prevents a lot of strangling in the future about who's who. It will always be the case in Hilversum. This is a creative process in which the NPO programming and ensuring a beautiful television evening, and in which the broadcasters eventually produce. Those two cannot be seen completely apart from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u126	I too am pleased that there are creative sessions to create beautiful programs. Those sessions are there and those wonderful programs are there. But all kinds of documents, regulations and consultations must determine who is exactly what. Why don't you cook a recipe for displeasure? Then you get more consultation structures and even more time-consuming decision-making and more notes and procedural arrangements from all those broadcasting associations and the NPO? That's exactly what the Secretary of State didn't want. Why is the Secretary of State doing this? I really don't get it. You could also just say: the NPO is the counter where everyone can check in and we're going to make it a well-oiled machine. The Secretary of State is doing exactly the opposite. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u127	I have heard no suggestion from Mr Verhoeven during the discussion of the previous law, not even to abolish, for example, the concession policy plan. I think it is a good tool to determine, in a new concession period, what we believe public service broadcasting should broadcast. What are the objectives of public service broadcasting for reaching young people and reaching young people on new platforms? I think it would be very useful for a plan to be considered. We must talk about this; I agree with Mr Verhoeven. This also applies to all other plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u128	The choice of a presenter, guests and subjects is at the station. Can that indeed not be overruled by the NPO? I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State why he did not put that in the law, as promised in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u129	I didn't promise that last one to the First Chamber. I have promised the First Chamber that I will literally embrace the joint agreements between the NPO and the vast majority of broadcasters. I think it is a sensible clarification and it is good that the NPO is transferring it to its coordination rules. I don't think it's the level we should set in the law. We could do it by getting a little more concrete than in the present proposal and indicating on which the substantive frameworks of the NPO should be based. However, we should not want to record it at the level of the presenters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u130	As far as I am concerned, that can be clarified in the law. There is a great deal of uncertainty about this in Hilversum; see the Klein/Van Dijk amendment. I'd like a clear answer. Can the choice of a broadcaster for a particular host be overruled by the NPO? Can the NPO say "that presenter needs to be replaced"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u131	No. You can't, because that's not what the NPO's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u132	According to the Secretary of State, the NPO can't do that, but why is there so much uncertainty? Why, then, is it necessary to agree on the agreements to which the Secretary of State referred? Those agreements could, of course, be overruled, because agreements can be broken. Surely it would be much better to guarantee it legally by adding a small piece of legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u133	I am not in favour of this, because then we will have to lay it down in much more detail in many other areas too. I see that good agreements have been made between the NPO on the one hand and the broadcasters on the other. They have also indicated that they will translate it into their own regulations. So that is not legislation and regulations that comes from here, but their own operationalisation of working arrangements. That seems sufficient to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u134	The Secretary of State would like to include detailed rules in the law on the use of an advisory office. Why, then, should he not indicate the position of the broadcasting organizations in the appointment of presenters, for example? If he anchors that and the other elements in the law, it is clear to everyone that the NPO is not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u135	If you were gonna do that, you'd have to describe it exhaustively. Mr Klein now gives one example, the question of who the host is to. I replied that that's the choice of broadcasting. That's what the NPO says, by the way. But there are many more things that need to be filled in in terms of content. That's all up to the network, and if you want to describe all that, it's going to be a huge list in a very thick bill. I wouldn't be for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u136	Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u137	A point of order, Mr. Chairman. I would advise the Secretary of State to look at the amendment later, because all these points are listed exhaustively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u138	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u139	Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with the public involvement. Due to its stronger role in the law of March 16th, the NPO also has the task of ensuring public engagement. The question is how this relates to the involvement of members and the public by the individual broadcasters. In my view, it is an addition to the public involvement organised by the broadcasters. They involve their members, viewers and listeners from their mission and identity. The NPO should further assess how the entire programming and, for example, the online strategy responds to the needs of society as a whole. Broadcasters do so for their own programmes and their own members, but not every Dutchman is a member of a broadcasting organisation. In the law of 16 March, the way in which the NPO implements it was left open. It may therefore be unclear to what extent the public is actually involved. This legislative proposal therefore adds that the NPO is explicitly entrusted with the task of organising public engagement. This can happen in several ways. How it happens depends, among other things, on the target group, the input requested or the platform to which it relates. You can think of public banisters, public surveys and social media. In addition, according to this bill, the NPO will have the task of setting up a representative social advisory council. The Supervisory Board shall at least give the Advisory Board an opportunity to give views on the profiles for future members of the Supervisory Board, but it may also serve as an advisory board, a sounding board, for the management of the NPO as regards its policy and strategy. Because the NPO looks at the interests of the entire public, it is important in my view that this advisory council is also representative. What does that mean, so various spokesmen asked. It seems unlikely to me that the Advisory Council reflects the diversity of all Dutch people on a one-on-one basis, but I think it is important that the NPO should make maximum efforts to ensure that such an Advisory Council gets a certain diversity, is as representative as possible. This means that, in any case, there should be a balanced distribution by age, sex, level of education and origin. In doing so, I can imagine that the NPO will ensure that the public groups that are now being more difficult to reach, for example, or feel not sufficiently represented, such as young people, will also be included in the Advisory Council. Then who's gonna check that that's representative? I think it would be a good job for the Supervisory Board to ensure that the Management Board does the right thing. Could the members of broadcasters also be members of that advisory council, Mr Elias asked. The bill asks the NPO to ensure representativeness. This does not exclude members of broadcasters, but it seems to me that the board would only consist of members of broadcasters. Ultimately, it is up to the NPO to find a good balance. Moreover, we must look at the role of the Advisory Council. I do not think that the Advisory Council should be some sort of forward-looking position for the broadcasting organizations. He must be an independent and independent body that advises the NPO on the task he has for the entire public service broadcasting. The Council must therefore be able to play that role. Can there also be judgements on the programmes of individual broadcasters? The tasks and activities are, of course, complementary to the efforts of broadcasters as associations. They are therefore not about individual programmes but about the offer and the activities as a whole of the total public service broadcasting. In this sense, the involvement of members and the involvement of the public are of a different nature. Finally, Mr Klein asked whether this would not cost extra money. A lot of these changes cost extra money. There are also a lot of changes to the Media Act that should ensure greater efficiency. So they're making money. Under the line, the NPO must ensure that it fits within the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u140	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u141	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mr. Klein, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u143	The Secretary of State states that broadcasting associations, with their 3.5 million members, remain at the core. There are the democratic legitimacy and the anchoring of Dutch society. This Advisory Council should then be additional. But what exactly is this supplement in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u144	Not everyone is a member of a broadcasting organisation, but the NPO must be there for 17 million Dutch. So that's supplemental. Moreover, not all target groups are equally well-achieved by the programmes of public service broadcasting, and we would like to see that different. I am thinking, for example, of greater reach among young people. Young people are not equally well represented at all broadcasting organizations. I can therefore very well imagine that the NPO is heavily committed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u145	Last interruption, Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u146	But when it comes to young people as a target group and that sort of thing, of course, we already have the concession policy plan, in which we make demands, such as the target groups to be reached. The involvement of those 17.5 million people would only be possible with Dutch people who are not represented. So you could only do that by organising elections, for example. I fully understand from the answers to my questions on this point that it is not the intention to hold elections. There is therefore a kind of co-optation advisory council that has no connection with those 17 million people, at least the others, who are not members of the broadcasting organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u147	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u148	No. So my question is very specific: where does the Secretary of State come from to organise something extra bureaucratic that is not a supplement and does not have any democratic legitimacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u149	I know a lot of organisations that really like having an advisory board or a sounding board body where they can ask different people to occasionally reflect on the strategy and the long-term goals and give good feedback on how they do it. I know that the NPO is keen to get to work with such an advisory board. So I don't see the objection, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u150	Very briefly, and perhaps even in order to avoid a second deadline, the following. The Secretary of State says that there may of course be people on the advisory board who are also in a broadcasting association. I get that. He also says that, of course, these advisory councils are not supposed to be made up of such people alone. I understand that, too. But nothing human is strange and sometimes weird machinations are pulled out in Hilversum. So let's say it's going in an undesirable direction, so the NPO's advisory board is crowded by all kinds of TV station operators; I'm just saying homely. Does the Secretary of State have a hook to intervene? If he is not, can he do it somewhere, for example in the concession policy plan? He can put it that way here, and I believe he can, but it must also be possible to comply with and implement it if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u151	It is good to emphasise that it is not the broadcasters that select the members. This is done by the board of directors of the NPO. The question then is what the importance of this board would be for all broadcasters to be involved in it. That doesn't seem very convenient to me, because then you talk to the network via different channels. It is really intended that the social advisory council should become a representative council, which can be a sounding board for questions such as how the social goals of public service broadcasting as a whole work out. It is a good thing that this is monitored. I do not have a direct opportunity to intervene in this, but the supervisory board will, of course, monitor the functioning of the board as a whole. So I think it's a good idea for him to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u152	Please continue. And go to a rounding, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u153	I am certainly going to do so, Mr President, because I have now arrived at the other subjects, although the first subject still requires some clarification, I think. In the debate in the First Chamber, in response to the SGP's question on advertising for Second Love via Ster, I agreed to investigate how the Watcheshow could be used in advertising on public broadcasting. That wording looks very closely. I said at the time, in response to Mr Schalk in the First Chamber, that I cannot and will not give an individual political opinion on a particular advertising. I am also saying this to Mr Verhoeven, who was concerned about this. However, I did say that you could apply the Viewing Point principle, which I believe you can count on a lot of support in this Chamber, in addition to programmes, to other forms of content. So also on what is between programs, namely advertising, and also on content that is delivered much more often and more digitally, I say to Mr Heerma. We have taken a number of actions in this area. There have been consultations with relevant stakeholders, such as the Star, NICAM/Kijkwijzer, the Advertising Code Commission and the Media Commissioner. This has also led to a number of concrete results. For example, the internal rules of the Star have been reviewed and their implementation has been strengthened. All advertising on public service broadcasting will be assessed as to whether they are potentially harmful to young people. That is the review framework that is central to the Viewing Point, as Mr Heerma pointed out. All commercials have to comply with that in principle. There are still a number of outstanding points. An example of this is the question of whether the agreements can be taken into account in one go with the decision of the Heerma motion on the programmes that can be seen online. That has some far-reaching consequences, and it seems to be a little more complicated. I'll try to take that in one go, but if it takes too long, then maybe I'll just start with the first topic first. I would also, of course, like to see how we can secure everything properly. Once that's completed, I'll make sure the Chamber gets those appointments in writing. I come to the second topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u154	Mr Van Dijk has another question on the previous point, the Viewing Point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u155	That is an important point for the SGP, and I can imagine. However, the key question is whether it is actually going to happen. The Secretary of State is going to investigate everything, but the key question is: will the Watchpoint monitor harmful advertising and will it then be restricted? Eventually that could also apply to Second Love, but that doesn't really matter. Is there gonna be a watchpoint for commercials?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u156	The commitment is to apply the principles of the Viewing Guide to all content in a broad sense. However, this is completely unrelated to the individual advertising for Second Love, which Mr Bishop and his fellow party members take offense at. I've already indicated that I'm not about that and I don't want to be about that either. In fact, I have even said in the First Chamber that I am seriously wondering whether the application of the Viewing Point will really help in this individual case, and whether it can take away the concerns of Mr Bishop and Mr Schalk. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that the Watching Point principle, or what you broadcast, is harmful to children, can be applied more widely than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u157	I think it is important for our colleagues in the First Chamber to get an answer to the following question: can the Secretary of State indicate if he can tell more about a watchpoint for advertising before the planned treatment in the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u158	That's my intention. I have also promised in the First Chamber that I will tell you exactly where we stand before the treatment takes place. I'm trying my best to do that, but I can't break iron with my hands. I am referring here to what is meant and I have just indicated how far we are now. It all looks good. I also think that I can live up to what I have promised, and I hope that will fall to good ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u159	All colleagues are now suddenly going to use the word 'harmful', but no one wants harmful advertising. That is all very well, but the question of precisely what is harmful is, of course, also partly politically determined. I have great concerns on this point, because I do not want any political influence to be exerted in any way on what can be seen on television, nor on advertising. I want the Secretary of State to make it very clear and to continue to make it clear, and I think he is also trying to make it clear that the Watching Eye is not a political vehicle for parties to influence what is on television. Is it true this isn't gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u160	The latter is entirely true. However, I do not agree with Mr Verhoeven that the question of whether something is harmful is also a political question. We have just put that question to the NICAM, and I would like to keep it that way. The NICAM, together with experts and psychologists, determines the impact of certain images, e.g. of sex, or of harsh language on children. This means that some programmes may not be broadcast for a certain time, but only later in the evening. For example, this has also led to the fact that in films there are warning blocks at the bottom of the picture. That's not gonna interfere with politics. However, the question of whether we want to apply the Viewing Point principle a little more broadly is a political question. I don't see any reason not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u161	Nor do I see any reason not to do so, because we have supported Mr Heerma's motion to see whether this can be done online. That's not the problem. The problem lies in political interference, which was indeed part of the discussion conducted by the SGP in the First Chamber. But what about the Advertising Code Commission? Nothing has yet been arranged online and therefore I can very well imagine that Mr Heerma tabled that motion, but there is something quite different about advertising. We already have a vehicle to ensure that there are no harmful advertisements on television. How does the advertising viewer's plan relate to the Advertising Code Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u162	We have a number of committees in this area which monitor the same thing. I think it makes sense to see if you can streamline their work. Can you equalize them or are there different criteria attached to them? I am now looking with the Star to see if it can test the advertising broadcast on the basis of the criteria of the NICAM, as the broadcasters also check their own programmes. This requires training and the people of the Star will have to apply the classification rules properly. We are seriously considering whether we can give this hand and foot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u163	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for being able to take away the hesitations of D66. He also removes the word D66 from the frame as if the SGP would like to have the position to assess whether advertising can or cannot be done. The SGP does not have that ambition. We then have to be a little larger as a group, and then it does not belong to the SGP Group. Do I understand the Secretary of State that he wishes to link the commitment he made in the First Chamber to the implementation of Mr Heerma's motion asking him to go wider, to other media? Is that the correct interpretation of what the Secretary of State is saying now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u164	A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u165	That's how I connected those cases in the First Chamber. The online story is even more complicated than the question asked by Mr Bishop's colleague on the other side, namely to apply it to the Star. I'd like to see what I can let the First Chamber know before the debate. That may not be the full implementation of the Heerma motion, but I hope that the commitment to Mr Schalk has come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u166	That's obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u167	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I also understand the fact that he is trying to combine the Heerma motion and the commitment to the SGP, but that he will disconnect those two if he fails to do so within the desired time limit. Can the Secretary of State say anything more about the term he has in mind? When will we hear more about both issues, whether combined or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u168	I promised the First Chamber I'd send her a letter before the debate. I will also send a copy to this Chamber. Then she can see what the latest state of affairs is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u169	If it does not include the effect of the Heerma motion, when can we expect it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u170	I will also mention in the same letter that there will be a real timetable. Mr Bruins asked about the implementation of the Bikker motion. This implementation will take place as of 2017 and will amount to a minimum of 12 million in programming previously provided by the 2.42 broadcasters. That must be translated into the budget of the NPO and so will the Chamber. In addition, the NPO will also free up space and budget for so-called broad conception of life. This will be agreed in the performance agreement, but of course we cannot make it until this law has been passed. Mr Verhoeven asked whether we could not stop advertising online. This would really be contrary to the government policy which, I believe, has been based on dual funding since the 1960s. Public service broadcasting is therefore not only financed by state subsidies, but also partly by advertising. Given the fact that traditional viewing and listening is partly moving to the Internet, it is also not surprising to apply the same regime to that. As far as I am concerned, the platform neutrality of this law also applies to advertising. Finally, Mr Bruins asked about the plans concerning regional broadcasters. Around the summer, the Chamber will receive a legislative proposal from me which concerns the second phase of regional public service broadcasting. The motions tabled by Mr Heerma and Mr Segers on the regional identity and the provincial boundaries of regional broadcasting and on the special position of Omrop Fryslân will be incorporated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u171	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. Let me see if there is a need for a second term among Members. That is not the case with everyone, but with Mr Verhoeven, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr. Chairman. Back to square one, standing empty-handed, a lot of screaming but little wool, no words but deeds, promises makes guilt: there are a lot of proverbs and sayings that symbolise the action of this Secretary of State. In fact, his performance on the Veronica boat has almost become a caricature. With us in the party we sometimes talk about doing a "Dekkertje." This means that you are announcing very large plans that are then left very little. But I've said enough about that and I'm going to stop talking about it now. I promise the Secretary of State on this one. We are going to judge this law on a number of points. The first point is entertainment. This has failed: there remains entertainment, not as a core task, but without prejudice to much on television as a means. The order is a tiny bit opened up I thank the Secretary of State for that and the follow-up steps will follow next Cabinets. Governance has improved considerably, thanks to the First Chamber, where the CDA voted against, but this governance has improved considerably. Finally, advertising. I am reassured by the SGP saying that it does not want any political influence, and I will not worry about it again. What remains is a proposal to use the Viewing Pointer digitally or perhaps at advertising level. As a channel-neutral, technology-neutral politician, I can't oppose that. I found the political sauce about it worrying, but on the basis of what the Secretary of State has said about it, I conclude that although the proposal is superfluous, there are many specific rules already and there is a Advertising Code Committee, but in any case it is not harmful and therefore it fits exactly with this law. That is why I will not make any further points. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas broadcasting advertisements are raising the threshold to look back on public service broadcasting programmes;]] [[noting that broadcasting advertising is relatively low for public service broadcasting;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the NPO, to abolish online advertisements on Missed Broadcast,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34459-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u173	I would add to the Christian-conservative colleagues that, by supporting this motion, they are immediately clear of that problem, namely that there are advertisements, which might be so harmful online. It is therefore a different solution from what they themselves propose, namely a more generic one rather than a specific one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u174	Having a very big mouth, screaming murder and fire, climbing into the chimney, threatening cruise missiles, promising to use tanks, this Secretary of State all the time whining to his pants about that Veronica ship, damning this law to hell and then eventually voting in favour. In our party, we call that a "needle."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u175	That was an announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u176	Yeah, that was an announcement. Mr Bosma has now suddenly become the adjutant of Secretary of State Dekker. That surprises me very much after everything he has called for in the past media debates. It was basically below the mark, but suddenly he is the adjutant, the colonel of Mr Dekker, and that is disgusting, dirty, disgusting to me from Mr Bosma. He should be ashamed of himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u177	Mr. Chairman. This morning a two came by from Mr Verhoeven. In that he actually announced this motion, so we are all prepared for it. I've already answered him on Twitter. The two said: D66 wants the public broadcaster to stop the annoying and unnecessary advertisements on Broadcast Missed. I congratulated Mr Verhoeven. It is a good approach by Mr Verhoeven of D66; now there are other broadcasts and also a broader definition of advertising. It's going in the right direction. Just a little more thought and then we will come to a moment when Mr Verhoeven stops framing as if the SGP wants political influence on the selection of advertisements. It's neatly invested at the Viewing Point. It is good that Mr Verhoeven has made that quite clear. That is the real gain of this exchange of views. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his adequate response. I will give a brief explanation of vote. We voted against the Media Act as it went to the Upper House. This is an improvement on a number of points compared to what was contained in the Media Act. I will advise the group to vote in favour of this bill. That is not yet a guarantee that it will receive massive support within our group, but it seems to me right to announce that. That also gives us a little less confusion, because if we do not, we will get the blame 'you are running'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u178	Mr Jasper van Dijk has a question; a very short one, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u179	It is Mr Bishop himself who says it. I hadn't even figured it out yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u180	It's not like we don't get along every now and then when colleagues help each other out a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u181	Excellent, thank you. I would like to say a few words about the Watcheshow, because that was an important point for the SGP in the Upper House. The Secretary of State is going to investigate all this now, and we have to wait and see. Maybe he means it all right, but the results can still be: sorry, that's not gonna get him with commercials, that's gonna get him too complicated. Does the SGP still fully support the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u182	I don't know how the SGP Group in the First Chamber makes its decision. We are deliberately not going to do that. If I have understood him correctly, the Secretary of State has promised that there will at least be a letter in the First Chamber to deal with this bill, containing the state of play. That's an important moment. I appreciate the Secretary of State's statement: I am trying to get that whole package right, and if it does not work, then at least some clarity must be provided to the Upper Chamber on this point. That is important for the group in the First Chamber. We are confident that this process will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u183	You will all receive letters and progress reports, but it is still possible that it will not happen. And then you're actually made a little happy with a dead sparrow: not a watchmark for advertising.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u184	Then the First Parliamentary Group of the SGP will have to consider the matter. This proposal, this super-novelle, is an improvement on the previous legislative proposal. That is why we are in any case in favour of these points of improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u185	Mr. Chairman. I have such a feeling that this law is going to make it in the Lower House, even though we still have to see it. However, the real game must be played in the Upper Chamber. We're all gonna watch that again. We're not in the European Championship anyway, so we have plenty of time for that. I'll come to the appointments. The Secretary of State says that the WOB procedure concerning the appointment of the chairman of the Supervisory Board is coming up. However, it is already running. The application was made in February. When do we get the pieces? I've got the impression it's not getting along. I have another question about drivers. The Secretary of State is doing a reconnaissance. Can he comment on the point that two directors of the NPO are also directors of the Star? Does he think that's compatible? After all, the Star has a substantially different purpose than the NPO, commercial versus public. It would be nice if the Secretary of State could go into that further. The central point of my group is the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. It remains vague who has the final say in a substantive disagreement. That is why the Klein/Jasper van Dijk amendment has been tabled. I would like to say to my colleagues that I support that. After all, you have that clarity. The Secretary of State made it very clear that the NPO should not reject a presenter as a broadcaster proposing it. I have an example of a presenter who was rejected by the NPO. The NPO says to the network, "We don't want that host." I can show it to the Secretary of State if he wants. So that's a little crazy, if the Secretary of State says so clearly here that it can't. I'm asking him to go into that. Is the NPO out of line here? I'm coming, finally, to the Watchpoint. I told Mr Bishop it would be very exciting. We're gonna wait and see. Don't let it be a dead sparrow. At least that would be a shame for the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u186	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I have already stated that I would only use this debate to check whether the agreements made by the Secretary of State with the Upper Chamber have been incorporated into the supplement to the law. I was pleased to note that I refer to the words of the evangelist Matthew: let you be yes, and you no, no, that today was fine, clear and clear a yes and a no no. By doing so, I can say that my group will be voting in favour of this bill, as it has already voted in favour of the previous legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u187	Mr. Chairman. A number of elements have emerged in the reply of the Secretary of State for which I thank him. It does not satisfy, however. There would be a representative advisory board. What does it prove, however? There's just some kind of co-option going on by the board of directors. It's some kind of sounding board. People get taken from somewhere, they get to say something and then give it back. It then has no added value and no function whatsoever, except for the introduction of a new bureaucratic bonus. Another meeting, an extra meeting circuit, which is needed, according to the Secretary of State. It is perfectly logical, as Mr Elias, Mr Heerma and the other colleagues have pointed out, that the democratic associations have a lot of sounding boards. They will indicate how the NPO will have to function in its entirety. That is why I have tabled an amendment to abolish all the advisory councils and not to incorporate them into the law. Article 2.52 states that the Management Board may review proposals. Then there will be certain appointments. If you can test that, is it absolutely clear that you should then say: you should not do that on certain parts, such as presenters, guests, subjects and specific matters? I have tabled an amendment to make this clear in the law, but the Secretary of State says that this can be done much better through the arrangements as they are. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is currently a great deal of uncertainty as to the exact substantive framework under which the NPO programmes of the broadcasting organizations may be subject to legal review;]] [[whereas clarity is desirable;]] [[having noted that on 2 February last the Secretary of State indicated in debate with the First Chamber that, in his view, programmers should be free in the subjects they address, in the guests they invite and in the presenters they appoint;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the review of programmes by the NPO does not concern the choice of presenters, guests, subjects or specific parts of the form and content of proposed programmes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34459-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u188	Finally, I will table one motion, also because of time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the guarantee budget for broadcasting organisations amounts to around EUR 250 million;]] [[noting that broadcasters currently have no guaranteed broadcasting time;]] [[noting that the NPO, independently of the data or programmes, has been produced using the guarantee budget, determines whether or not programmes are broadcast;]] [[Whereas, therefore, it is no longer guaranteed that programmes produced by public funds are actually broadcast;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a proposal providing for broadcasting organisations to receive a guarantee budget as well as a guarantee guarantee of broadcasting time;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34459-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u189	Finally, it is logical that, in the case of consultancy firms, the Chamber often states that it should not seek advice from these offices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u191	That is why I propose in my amendment that no consulting agency should be included in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u192	Thank you. I'm gonna check with the Secretary of State to see if he can answer directly. The final motions will be distributed in a moment, but perhaps you can start with the amendments, Secretary of State. No response has been given to this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u193	Mr. Chairman. Those motions will drip in. There are a few questions, motions and amendments. Mr Verhoeven once again showed a lot of wrongdoing. What really matters to me is, of course, his voice and those of his group members. I think that's what it's all about. Mr Van Dijk asked why it took so long to comply with the WOB request. That also has to do with views. You're gonna have to submit a few things to those involved, and then you're gonna get it back. I expect to be able to finish this month. For the double roles of the NPO and the Star there is an explanation, but it is also part of the exploration, so I take it with me. The Verhoeven motion in part No. 12, I advise. I have given the arguments in the first term. The amendment tabled by Mr Klein and Mr Jasper van Dijk concerns the inclusion in the law of the choice for presenters and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u194	In part No. 10?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u195	9.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u196	No, it's been replaced by 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u197	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u198	It has then been replaced by the amendment in part No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 10, but I think the scope remains the same. I'd advise against that. In my opinion, the frameworks and scope of the role of the NPO are clearly defined. It is also confirmed that the NPO must always comply with Article 2.88. Ultimately, this should be translated into working practice and not codified into law. I would also like to say a few words about Amendment No 2. 11 on the social advisory council, I advise. It is precisely because of the stronger role of the NPO that their relationship with the public is strengthened. This amendment would remove it, and I do not think that is desirable. There are two further motions by Mr Klein. In the motion in part No. 14 the Government is invited to ensure that the review of programmes by the NPO does not concern the choice for presenters and so on. I believe that this motion is completely superfluous, because it is literally stated in the letter of 28 February with agreements between the broadcasters and the NPO. The NPO has already indicated that it will start working on this. I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 15 calls on the Government to prepare a proposal and so on. I advise against this, because the law of 16 March already contains a qualitative provision which obliges the NPO to free up space on the supply channels. What Mr Klein wants is to return to the old broadcasting guarantees, but we have not taken them out for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u199	Mr Klein, I allow an interruption, but only to hold on to the motions, to withdraw them or, if necessary, to amend them. We're not going to have the discussion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u200	No. From the motion on the review, the Secretary of State states that it is superfluous. By doing so, the Secretary of State indicates that it is in fact already settled. I'm gonna give the Secretary of State a chance to take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u201	I think it's good practice to discourage unnecessary motions. The NPO and the broadcasters can do it very well themselves, even without me. I have every confidence that that will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u202	Either I do something wrong or I have the State Secretary's opinion on the amendment to item No. 8 not yet heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u203	I think the Secretary of State did not recommend that amendment. Amendments have been tabled to documents Nos. 8, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u204	Are there three amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u205	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u206	I've advised on two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u207	Then Mr Elias was still paying attention. I'm giving the Secretary of State the opportunity to respond. Mr Klein, this is your amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u208	Yes, with the amendment to item No. 8 is abolished from the law that an external consultancy firm is required.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u209	I'd advise against that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u210	That's very short. So you can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u211	That concludes this debate. We will vote next Tuesday on the amendments tabled, on motions for resolutions and on the legislative proposal.
