ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, Mrs Klijnsma, and the members of the Chamber. Speaking time is four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. Older people have been taken hard in the last few years. VVD and the Labour Party are the first to be responsible for the fact that pensioners are lagging behind in their purchasing power. I would like to show you the CBS graph which clearly shows that purchasing power has fallen to 30% compared to workers. You heard me right: 30%. But not only the government parties are guilty. Other parties have been eager to help older people into the swamp. When there was a structural 5 billion to be divided, this went largely to the workers; pure tax age discrimination. Older people saw their income position deteriorate further. The AOW age is increasing rapidly and as a result even more people can't get a job. They are printed away in a benefit and they are also deposited in a large AOW-hole, partly thanks to you, Brutus of the PVV, who broke the promise "65 remains 65" one day after the election. In this respect, Mr Wilders and Mr Rutte are not undermining each other. Now that the elections are approaching in 181 days' time, other parties have suddenly discovered the elderly. If the leaks are correct, they can count on an election tip of 0.7%. It is a good thing that the older people of today had education in which they were also counted behind the decimal place. We have seen in recent years that most pensions were no longer indexed, and sometimes even reduced. It is a disgrace to the people who have built the Netherlands and who had counted on a carefree old age. The debate is heavily polluted by pumping in the image of rich elderly people, while there are one and a half million elderly people who have no or just enough savings to pay for their own funeral. Most older people have experienced the decline in purchasing power. In a few months' time, new pension discounts will be threatened; they will be short-lived, but they will be permanent. Experts have already calculated that the really big blow will fall in 2019; read the words of pension experts Leo Witkamp and Bernard of Prague. 50PLUS asks two questions: is shorting fair and necessary and is it inevitable? As far as 50PLUS is concerned, it is not fair to penalise a large part of the population on account of its age. It's not necessary either. The pension funds built up by the people in this country are more than sufficient and are among the highest in the world. The pots have even doubled over the crisis years from 700 billion to 1,200 to 1,400 billion, with still high yields, which means that cuts are not needed. Surely it is madness that the government assumes that people's savings yield a return of 4%, while pension funds, which actually have a much higher return, have to count with a much lower artificial percentage? There must be clarity and therefore 50PLUS, together with the SP, will table a motion in the second term, which I will hand out to colleagues in a moment. We'll find out who's having trouble with it. The point of the motion is that we want the government to come up with proposals quickly, which will make it possible to index pensions as quickly as possible and not to reduce them. Towards 15 March, we will help the electorate remember which parties voted against it. We do not want words but deeds. Election chatter doesn't fill pension holes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u3	I would ask the public in the gallery not to express their approval or disapproval. You're here as our guest, but we're meeting here. You are not supposed to applaud, even if you agree with one of the speakers. You have other options for that. Thank you for your cooperation. I would now like to give the floor to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u4	Mr. Chairman. Pensions are a difficult subject for this cabinet, but the pension is the most difficult point for hundreds of thousands of older Dutch people who have seen their purchasing power decrease for years and at the end of their money a piece of money is not left a piece of money. There will be a lot of repetition of this debate. It's good that we feed it. Sure. We have strongly supported Mr Krol's request. Even before he discovered the elders, we were already working on them. Then he was still in the political diapers. I am already saying that we are not tabling any motions today, but I suspect that I am already smelling it that I will wholeheartedly endorse and support Mr Krol's motion of 50PLUS. This debate, as far as we are concerned, is intended to see whether the Secretary of State, here in box K, does not understand or simply refuses to understand what the problems are. If it understands the problem, it will announce within a week, or even before the weekend, measures to leave the current system of interest rates and will do its stinking best to convert threatening discounts into an indexation of at least 2% annually. Perhaps at the end of this cabinet period there will be a small silver border around the ashes that the Secretary of State and her Minister of SZW have achieved this period. As I said, the cause of the misery is the system that is used to determine the calculation rate. Dutch pension funds need to be poor. The debt lies in Frankfurt, where the ECB keeps interest rates artificially low to help the southern countries. But that puts our older people in a purchasing power hole. I have noted the old 17%; Mr Krol said that in some cases it was almost 30%. We are supposed to be helping the South and we are supposed to be showing international solidarity, but we must show solidarity with the people upstairs. We know the results of the investments. Every year, pension funds are left with billions of deposits plus returns. The stock of pension money is now growing from 1,250 to 1,400 billion. I dare say that with an indexation of 2% each year and a conservative estimate of the investment return of 2 to 3%, pension capital can grow to the EUR 2 000 billion over the next 25 years. So there's no problem at all. It's not a difficult calculation. I'll make the joke myself: you need something more than a whole A4's. You're gonna need a couple of A4s to do it, but then anyone can make that calculation. The problem is that in recent years a debate on pensions has started on the basis of fear and only worst case scenarios. We have seen this in the care sector in recent years. The worst case scenarios were always used to implement the reforms. We have seen it with climate hysteria: the world will perish within a number of years. Well, we're still there. If you didn't join that polonaise, you'd be called a member of the flat earth society. Fortunately, in the meantime, science proves the opposite and is doing fine. As a human being, we cannot influence that. In the pension area, too, the worst case scenarios are at stake. This fear has been stirred up by the media, of course, but above all by polders, which this cabinet is so good at, by the Social Economic Council, by the cabinet itself and in some cases even by the pension sector. I told you, it's like a polonaise. Secretary of State Klijnsma is in the lead. It has taken decisions, it has poldered and it has consulted the ESC and all the other institutions. Behind that is a number of people who still know a little bit about it and at the back of the line there are all kinds of people who are shouting the same thing, but they don't know what it's about anymore. At a time like this, you have to be careful, because if there is no longer a debate on pensions and everyone walks in the same direction, even as chickens without heads, democracy is dead on this point. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. I've got ten seconds. Let me conclude by saying that shorts are antisocial and amoral. You can just figure out that those buffers will just grow over the next few years. Secretary of State, do something about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u5	Mr. Chairman. Cutting pensions is unnecessary and unfair. Eight out of ten elderly people have lost their income and older people have too much to endure as a result of the accumulation of measures. It is not fair that pension funds should pretend to be black-collar, whereas pension pots have never been so full. They have against the 14 billion in cash, twice as much as before the crisis. And pension funds get good returns. Older people are now in opposition to the discounts. Last week it was the ANBO who said that older people had been getting crumbs for eight years when the cabinet splits the purchasing power cake and at the beginning of this week we got the book Elders breaking the silence of the Union of CEDEFOP with poignant stories. I advise the Secretary of State to read this booklet and I'm curious about her response. Among other things, you can read: "Everything is getting less, but I have to pay more. The care and the housekeeping. I'm sick of the money worries and I'm at my wits' end." Another quote: "This year I only come out when I'm very economical. So no more swimming, no new clothes, as cheap as possible groceries. Gifts for children and grandchildren are disasters for my monthly budget." Just now, half an hour ago, we received another petition with exactly the same message. Many pensions have not been compensated for price increases for years. Some funds have even reduced the pension and many have lost a lot of purchasing power. You can buy less and less for your pension. The Secretary of State must finally wake up. The Secretary of State must take emergency measures. The reduction in pensions must be abolished. Secretary of State Klijnsma said immediately after the elections, now I quote again "And now we are going to make our country stronger and more social." Stronger and more social? The Secretary of State actually does exactly the opposite of what Drees did at the time. He had respect for the elders who built the country. Can the Secretary of State still look straight into the eyes of the many elderly who have complaints of this kind? When Minister Kamp had to deal with discounts, he told the elderly that they should only take a newspaper route to compensate them. Hoon fell in love with him, and rightly so. This Secretary of State is making it even more colourful. She said "get a vegetable garden." Now I am very curious to know what advice the Secretary of State is giving the people here in the gallery and the people in the country about how to close that gap. I'm very curious to hear the Secretary of State's answer. Older people deserve a solution, if necessary an emergency solution. The FNV also calls for emergency measures, because so far the Secretary of State has messed up. But... she still has a chance. One more chance: take that emergency measure to prevent the shortening of 2017 and instruct the Nederlandsche Bank to develop another accounting rate, one that is not dependent on daily prices and manipulations by the European Central Bank and which takes into account the real returns that the funds make. I'm sorry to have to help the Secretary of State to live up to her election promise. If the Secretary of State did this, the Secretary of State could say, as far as I am concerned, that it is strong and social.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u6	Mr. Chairman. The heat outside reflects to a large extent the temperature of this debate: heated. I therefore commend the air conditioning in this room. We are all concerned about pensions, please take it from me. We politicians talk about this with people who e-mail us, people on the street, at birthday parties and just here in the Passage. The uncertainty is great. I understand that. Many people who have only a small pension besides their AOW feel that they can actually do nothing but wait and see. You know my reasoning: a little less of little is often a lot. However, I would have liked to say that there are incredibly many young people, who are very much convinced of it, and often wrongly say that there is no AOW, no pension, nothing left for them. Still, I'd like to start with another story. My colleagues know it from me by now. I'd like to begin by singing praises to our system, a declaration of love. My predecessors didn't do that. This is a system in which we share risks, in which we share our solidarity, even better, if you ask me, and we build up our obligation, even at an age when we do not want to think about it at all. That's a big good my party would like to keep. Is everything okay? Doesn't anything have to change? There's a lot going on. And if you want to restore trust, you have to change something. We're all convinced of that now. So that promise of certainty turns out to be very uncertain. Here we have established the new financial review framework, the nftk, with the full support of the social partners, of all unions, of the Pension Federation behind all pension funds and of all employers. However, my main concern must be that it is still very interest-sensitive. It is also too volatile for something that should provide people with long-term security. We need to get that shortness of breath out. Pensions are under pressure, but we have not escaped them since the financial crisis. Many large funds scored bad returns last year. One of the big pension funds was even in the minus. We have a large ageing population, a growing number ofzzp'ers and a truly low-interesting economy. You can also discuss the extent to which it is controlled or market driven, but the economists do not come out of it either. We also have another major problem, which I would like to mention here: too many people are not building up enough pensions and large groups of people who are currently working are not building up a pension at all. That's my big concern, too. There is a lot of solidarity within pension schemes, but sometimes there is no solidarity. We need to talk about the transfers from young to old, from poor to rich, from low to highly educated. That's what studies are about. It all takes time. According to some, like my colleague Van Weyenberg, it must be done very quickly. We're really gonna have to go to a new retirement contract. I have some pressing short-term questions for the Secretary of State. Do we even know how big the problems are right now? Today we saw that the coverage of the ABP has increased slightly. At the same time, it was concluded that the chances of shortening are increasing. Or is it okay? Has the government taken into account the state of these funds in its discussions this summer and the lack of indexation on pensions? We cannot, of course, anticipate next Tuesday, but we can always ask the question. In a previous context, I have asked whether the existing tight nominal framework can still provide soothing. Here and there it is suggested to look at recovery periods. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? Is it prepared to hold consultations on this subject before we deal with the Social Affairs budget? At the request of the Chamber, an international investigation has been promised, because such a comparison could also learn something for our system. We'd like to have that investigation. Why should this not be available until December? Again, is the Secretary of State prepared to enter into consultation and still look for enlightenment, without turning on buttons that will affect other generations? I would like to conclude, if the President's permission, with a feeling. A survey on solidarity between young and old has just been launched. I don't want to believe it would be so low.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u7	I have listened with increasing amazement to Mrs Vermeij, who is one of the better pension specialists in the Chamber. That is where the danger lies. Mrs Vermeij tells a story in which we sit with our hands in the air: we can actually do very little. We can't turn buttons, we can't do this, and we can't. Mrs Vermeij participates in the polonaise of people who say that things have to be different and that there will be no pension left for young people. I see the President looking at me; I am very brief in my question, Mr President. The content of the pension pots that are now in existence has been built up, and this has been achieved by the people who are now in the second phase of their retirement or who have a pension benefit. Why does Mrs Vermeij go along with that polonaise and why doesn't she go along with changing the interest rate? She knows as well as I do that 1% less arithmetic rate means 15% less coverage. Those are just facts. Mrs Vermeij only asks a number of mandatory questions to the Secretary of State to give the impression that she is doing something, but nothing is happening in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u8	Mr de Graaf, I know you. I was waiting for the punch line. There is now, so Mrs Vermeij can answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u9	One of the points I was trying to make, but apparently not made clearly, is that we are indeed building up for the younger generation, although many young people feel that this is not happening. We could do something about that ourselves, by improving communication on this issue. Mr De Graaf asked about turning the buttons of the interest rate. We know that this has consequences for the total obligation of that whole pot and therefore for those who are still in the build-up phase: you, I, perhaps later our children and the people who are a little older. The consequence of getting more out of the pot is that there will be less in the pot, while the obligation of that pot will be the same. That is why I am looking for tools to prevent this. I don't know if there are any. We have received a rather disappointing letter from the cabinet. I'm not into running calculus rates. I am, however, in favour of a more profound system of interest sensitivity. It starts and ends with accepting that pensions are not sure. We shall have to deal with this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u10	That is what the debate started ten years ago: with that uncertainty. However, I have an instrument for Mrs Vermeij. That's very nice. She suggests that I want to grab into the 1,250 billion pension fund, but I don't want to; no, I want to build it further. Then you can also index. That's so much fun! We have billions of dollars left every year. The people who are coming into the construction phase in the coming years are making money. If you count on a yield of 2% to 3%, you are prudently engaged while the contents of the pot continue to increase. However, a lot of people do not want to see this. I would like to say to Mrs Vermeij: open your eyes, because then it will all be very easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u11	I notice that Mrs Vermeij has her eyes very, very open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u12	I even had my glasses on. I have not heard a question; Mr De Graaf has not put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u13	It was indeed more of a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u14	This debate is about cutting pensions. That was a message from the Dutch Bank before the summer. What story does Mrs Vermeij have for the people in the gallery, the elderly in the country, about cutting short next year? Will the PvdA lie down for that: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u15	First of all, I have to say that I do not know whether pensions will be reduced. Mr Ulenbelt does not know that either. In fact, we have not yet received a single message, not even from the cabinet, about whether pensions will be reduced. I hope, like Mr Ulenbelt, that this will not happen and should not happen. However, I don't have a glass ball that I can see into. I don't know what's gonna happen in the next few months. I have indicated that I believe that interest rate sensitivity should be removed from the system, because it is really becoming too acute for something that has to work for the longer term. I asked the Secretary of State earlier, more than a few months ago, whether there is not another button in the current ftk (financial review framework), which offers the important opportunity to spread any discounts in ten years' time, that does not do anything about the unfair distribution but could offer mitigation. I'll ask the Secretary of State again. I do not know what will happen, but neither does Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u16	Mrs Vermeij knows better than anyone that if you want to settle something in this country, especially in the area of pensions, you have to do so now. So I ask the Labour Party once again: is the Labour Party prepared to prevent the reduction of pensions, just because of low interest rates? Just say yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u17	Then I'll have to be informed if that's necessary. I must first be informed whether these pensions should be reduced. I myself have heard reports that this should not be the case with the large funds at the end of the year. You don't know either, Mr Ulenbelt. We don't know. The government said it didn't come up with that information until November. With you, I'd like to say to the government that it's very late. Well, then, we've only got a month left. I'm asking you if the government can try to do that sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u18	If you're asked to avoid anything, you can say yes to it. If it doesn't happen, it won't. So I don't understand the problem. However, my question is about something else. I hear Mrs Vermeij repeatedly suggest that we should be careful what is in the jars for young people. Of the contents of these pots, however, that is 1,200 to 1,400 billion.... has been raised by people over 65 years and 600 billion by people aged 35 to 65 years who are still working. So far, young people have only raised 60 billion in this pot. We must help the young people to bring more together. Is the Labour Party in favour of us all making sure that young people can contribute more tax-payingly to that pot?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u19	But now my clog breaks. In fact, Mr Krol says: we should divide it fairly by age. Of course you can't. Young people are probably just in the "pension savings mode," so to speak. We all know how that works. We also know that this share is now low, but it was ten years ago. The share that young people have contributed does not grow to the share that now works and is almost before their retirement. So, honestly, I don't understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u20	What I want to say, and you understand that very well, is that we must stop talking to young people about fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u21	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u22	Young people have contributed very little in proportion. We all need to ensure that they can continue to contribute so that they can have a decent pension in the future. I can't help but think about setting up a young man against an old man... that's what's gonna kill me by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u23	Me, too, and that was the basis of my whole speech. I therefore hope that this has been corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u24	Mr. Chairman. It is not the first time, and I am not afraid of the last time, that we are talking in this Chamber about the development of pension funds. We know that many pensions have not been indexed for years, that they have sometimes even been shortened and that the situation of many pension funds is far from rosy at the moment. Today there were new figures again. Some figures were slightly better, but the chances of discounts are really not smaller and maybe even greater. This concerns many people, and that is understandable. We already received a petition from the people of the Union KBO on Tuesday. They are active, because they are back in the public gallery today, as are the people of KBO-Brabant. Unfortunately, I couldn't join the petition offer because it had been moved to a time when I had another obligation. However, I am sure that the petition will end up with me. I think it is good to say that the non-indexation of pensions, or even the shortening of pensions, does not only affect pensioners. Workers are also reduced in their future pensions. You don't see that in the purchasing power picture, but it does mean less future purchasing power. It is important to take that into account as well. It's no secret that my party wants to switch to personal retirement pots. This allows you to invest more tailoredly, you can invest young people's money more offensively and the money of pensioners with less risk. After all, the latter have to pay their rents and groceries every day. The current system is far too interest-sensitive. Pensioners carry the same risks on the financial markets as young people, while pensioners get all their money out every day and young people usually have decades of working lives ahead of them. So let's move on to those personal retirement pots. This makes the position of pensioners much less vulnerable if, for example, interest rates fall. I see that this movement is slowly being set in motion, and indeed, Mrs Vermeij, I am not doing it fast enough at all. I'm aware we don't have those jars right now. But if we had that, we would have a very different debate today. Then pensioners would have a completely different perspective. I also need a positive aspect of the pension system of the heart. Let us be clear that the pension system has ensured that "old" is no longer equal to "poor" in this country. What do I say? Older people's poverty has fallen to 3% over the last ten years. And it was extremely high, which was 13%. That's a success. Let's not forget that! More and more people have a supplementary pension, and that is a good thing. I must say that the poverty of small children is almost five times higher than that of pensioners. Now every poor man in this country is one too many. But where, on the one hand, I am going to stand for the purchasing power of pensioners, I also ask for attention to be paid to this. So I do not go along with scare-making, in stories of fear that it is only sorrow and torment. This does not do justice to the facts, it does not do justice to the differences in income and wealth between generations. I ask this cabinet when we get a clear view on how pension funds stand towards the end of this year. When will the new data arrive? One thing is not going to happen to D66: to change the rules now; to change rules in times of crisis to avoid painful measures. I am willing to think about everything that helps, but I do not want to see a grip on pension funds and changes in accounting rules, which will shift the risk of pensioners to their children and grandchildren. My group believes that this is wrong. Their money's in those wells, too. They must be able to assume that if they too are obliged to spend a lot of money each month, we will be dealing very carefully with that money. I do expect a balanced purchasing power picture from the cabinet. Last year we supported the cabinet in this. I expect the cabinet with Princess Day to do something about the large negative purchasing power figures contained in the latest estimates. I already know that the Secretary of State is not going to answer that question, but I also sometimes read a newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u25	I would like to put the same question to Mr Van Weyenberg as I asked Mrs Vermeij. Does D66 accept the reduction of pensions in 2017? Looks like it. Then he can honestly say yes. If that is not the case, what is D66's proposal to prevent cutting next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u26	We have agreed rules of the game with each other to ensure that everyone who invests their money in these funds is treated fairly, and that is often mandatory, in which people have no choice. We don't know what the funds are like yet, but it doesn't look very bright. I agree with Mr Ulenbelt. But if he asks if we're going to change the rules so much that we're going to gamble with the retirement of the current workers, the answer is "no." Mr Ulenbelt must be honest. If you just increase the rate of calculation by a percentage point, you're guessing with the pension of workers and young people. I'm not going along with that. But above all, I hope that it will not prove necessary to cut short. Again, I am looking at next year's purchasing power, and I expect the cabinet to take measures in this respect with Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u27	The rules governing the calculation of the interest rate have changed the Chamber three or four times over the past ten years. There can't be the problem. But I didn't hear an answer to my question. Does D66 accept that next year only because of the low interest rates pensions of the elderly and workers will be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u28	Mr Ulenbelt must also be honest now. Now, if you look arithmetically into a glass ball and raise the arithmetic rate, you're gambling with young people's pensions. So that kind of trick with the rules of the game; no, that's not gonna happen to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u29	Mr. Chairman. People are awake to the question of whether they still have enough money at the end of the month to pay the bills or do the shopping. People are worried about whether they can still take their grandchild to the zoo for a day. People are also angry because they have worked hard and saved for years for their pension, and now face possible discounts from the pension fund. I can very well imagine that the uncertainty and the feeling of injustice lead to that anger, all the more so because people who are already retired cannot just rethink the disappointing pension. It's not just the older people who worry. Younger people, who are far from retirement, are also wondering what happens to their pensions. Do they have sufficient pensions when they are ready? So people are concerned for different reasons. To remove these concerns, you hear people on the one hand shouting that the interest button needs to be turned, in the vein of: raise the interest rate and the problem is solved. But nothing is less true, because by turning the interest button you don't make extra money. You'll live on the puff. On the other hand, there are people who do not want to save any more for later because of this discussion. That both leads to a bad pension. Of course, we want a good pension for everyone. That is not easy, because we are dealing with low interest rates. We're all aware of the mortgage interest rate. The interest you get on a savings account is almost nothing. The return on investment of pension funds is also disappointing. People are getting older. For example, yesterday we read that a girl born today already has a life expectancy of 93 years. Because of these developments, pension funds are in a bad way. This has consequences for all participants and pensioners. It is important for the cabinet to keep an eye on the elderly. I trust that next Tuesday there will be good news for everyone; also for the elderly. Although it seems less urgent for young people, because there is more time, it is equally important for them to look at our pension system. Despite having one of the best systems in the world, we cannot close our eyes to the shortcomings. The system is not in line with the current labour market, where many people switch jobs much faster and work in a different sector much more often than in the past or as self-employed. The lack of control over your own pension is also a pain in the current system. The VVD wants to change this. We think it is important for people to have more control. We must go to a personal pension fund, where it is clear to everyone how much you have saved and where you can make your own choices. It is important that these changes are initiated. The way grandchildren wish their grandmother and grandmother a good pension, pensioners want their children and grandchildren to have an adequate pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u30	Mr. Chairman. There's a big problem in retirement land. Many people have had a frozen pension for years, or their pension has been cut. It is not the accounting rate that causes the problem in the pension system. It's not the returns achieved. It's not the pension funds. It is not even the Dutch Government, which I, as an opposition, would like to put something on the table, although the CDA is not in favour of much government interference with the pension arrangements either. With the countries that have a state pension system, things always go worse. The real problem with pensions is low interest rates. No economist has taken into account even the smallest possibility of a negative interest rate. If you're an entrepreneur now and you have to buy a pension, you get negative interest from your 65th until you die. Mrs Lodders knows this and has therefore tabled a proposal aimed at ensuring that people do not have negative interest rates. As a result, these people's pensions have fallen by 40% to 50%. There are all kinds of proposals to increase the rate of calculation. You can raise the calculus rate a bit every year. This has been done in a number of countries such as the US and Ireland, but there is a maximum. One consequence of constantly increasing is that when a pension fund collapses, the blow comes at once. I cannot give examples in four minutes, but there are examples from Ireland where people lost 60% of their pension rights. The good returns of pension funds have largely been achieved by selling old government bonds. They were still entitled to high interest rates, 4% or 5%, sometimes up to 6%, and when you sell them, you sometimes get tens of percent more than you bought them for. If interest rates remain so low or fall even further, pensions are quickly and severely eroded from the inside. That is why I am very critical of ECB policy. The ECB's current policy has never been the task of the European Central Bank. This was not the intention of the authors of the Maastricht Treaty. Every month, the bank buys up tens of billions of government bonds and now even corporate bonds. That's a huge danger, because who's got the biggest pile of debts in his vault? The European Central Bank, for thousands of billions. If something happens to it, we guarantee it. Who pays the bill for that? Those are the savers and the pensioners. Who's having the fun? They're people in debt. I actually have to say: countries with debts. You have to pay interest to a country that has high debts, and so we indirectly pay the account through the Dutch pension funds. Because this has never been the intention, and because the CDA is in favour of sustainable solutions that not only solve the problem of pensioners, but also those of savers, in addition to reducing the risk to the Netherlands, which guarantees the ECB.......................................................................................................................................................... Then we can go back to a normal market economy and no longer guarantee debt elsewhere in Europe. Is the Secretary of State prepared to come forward with proposals within two months? Those proposals may go up to an amendment of the Treaty, prohibiting the ECB from carrying out those buy-back programmes. So they were going to solve this problem fundamentally. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider in the meantime whether pension funds need not unnecessarily use a worse accounting rate than insurers? The latter, I say with all honesty, will not destroy all the discounts, but the CDA sees no reason to treat pension funds worse or harder than insurers, even if it was just because insurers are not allowed to cut short and pension funds are, and that is why those rights are softer. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u31	The CDA puts the finger on a sore spot in the European Central Bank's policy. Mr Omtzigt is quite right about that. But our DNB, we, can ensure that a calculation rate is applied in the Netherlands which is free of the consequences of the ECB's influence? The financial situation of the funds allows that, and then you will be a little bit independent from the ECB on this point, because I wish Mr Omtzig very much success in his fight, which, I believe, supports my party, too, but we have to do something about shortening next year. Mr Omtzigt's story does not provide a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u32	The need in Europe is high in the way in which monetary policy is conducted, and this must be cut down quickly. I don't see any reason why that has to wait years. The calculation rate is not independent of the market interest rate. The calculation rate is chosen as the interest collected on the market. Now, of course, you can say that we have to apply a 4% rate of calculation, but we only get 0%. If you buy a state bond from Mr Dijsselbloem today for five years, you will receive 0.01% interest per year. You don't make any returns. If you book 4% interest, you're sure you're gonna have 3,99% return on government bonds by the end of the first year. Mrs. Lodders saw that in people who have to buy a pension. At the end, they have to deal with reductions of tens of percent. Unfortunately, it's a way to push the pain a bit back. It is a pity that my colleagues from GroenLinks are not here. They proposed in 2008 that the government cover the gap in pension funds. That, too, was a proposal that you supported at the time. If the government had covered the deficits of the pension funds, it would have become the owner of the funds. I know what that ended up with, namely, eating up the funds. If you think this is a myth, I can show you the examples of nationalized funds in the US and France. I am glad that in 2008 we did not follow the proposal of the SP and GroenLinks, because then the problems would have been greater, unfortunately. I would like to add my voice to some of my colleagues. I too hope that for the public part, the AOW and the elderly discount, there is a solution or at least better news in the Tax Plan. I will not make any motions on this, because that Tax Plan has already been printed, so that would be very bad for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u33	I have received all kinds of answers to questions that I have absolutely not asked. That's too bad. When you get very long answers, you always have to be on your qui vive. I would like to put a specific question to Mr Omtzigt. Does the CDA accept the discounts that will undoubtedly take place in the coming year, or is Mr Omtzigt prepared to find a solution for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u34	We're willing to think with it and see what we can do. The CDA makes a distinction. The AOW is the responsibility of politics. The AOW was indexed, also by this government. Pensions are private. If you change the supervision every year to get a certain outcome and you are at the accounting rate every year, then the end of the story is that pensions are no longer covered. The only way to settle it for the longer term is to go back to normal market interest rates. What you, what the SP is proposing here, will eventually lead to the nationalisation of the pension system. I'm gonna distance myself from that. It's not the easy story, but it will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u35	I'm not allowed anymore, am I?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u36	No, you can't do this anymore. We made a deal about that. We will have a second deadline in which you will be able to respond in detail to Mr Omtzigt's statement. This put an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State asks for a fifteen-minute suspension so that the Chamber can be provided with good answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u37	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their input into this debate. We are sitting here in the context of a debate requested by the Chamber on the report of the Netherlands Bank on pension funds. That report was sent to the Chamber by the Cabinet in May. The report shows that the financial position of the funds was under pressure at the end of the first quarter of 2015. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that the situation is still as it was at the time. Let me start by saying that I understand the concerns of the pensioners very well. They wonder whether they will soon have enough pension to live on. In many cases, pensions, the second pillar, have not been indexed for years. There are now threats of discounts. This puts pressure on the purchasing power of older people. Of course, the Cabinet and the Chamber know that the AOW is really the basis for the old age provision. The cabinet is primarily responsible for the AOW. That AOW is well indexed. However, I can very well imagine that people are worried about what they are building next to the AOW. The purchasing power of older people is not just about pensions. It's really about the integral picture. The cabinet aims to achieve a balanced purchasing power policy. It is of course also aware of the specific income position of the elderly in this case. I can inform the Chamber that the cabinet has been paying close attention to this again this year. The cabinet is a bit premature, because in five days' time the integral purchasing power picture will be brought out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u38	Secretary of State, you say the cabinet is premature. That's a political statement. Perhaps you mean that the debate is premature?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u39	Did I say the cabinet is premature? Excuse me. I get it. Of course I mean that the debate is premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u40	Given all the leaked information that we have been allowed to read in the newspaper, I would also like to mention the cabinet prematurely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u41	Yeah, now we're having a debate about who should take what leakage for his choice. I don't think we should have that debate. The cabinet would, of course, like to make it clear on Princes Day how it is shaping that balanced purchasing power picture. That is essential, because all people in the Netherlands should be able to see that our country is doing better. The same applies, of course, to pensioners. I can inform the Chamber that in recent years I have been in contact with anyone who has anything to do with the old age provision, not just over the last few weeks or months. I'll keep doing that. Because the spokesmen in the Chamber have said that the debate on the whole system is extremely important. I believe that from this point of view we should also continue to talk to everyone who knows about things and has interests in this old age provision. Of course you regularly join the elderly unions. I see representatives of the elderly unions sitting in the public gallery right now. But of course you come regularly to the Pension Lab of the young people and to the social partners. Some members of the Chamber replied to the letter from the FNV. The FNV is also a social partner. This union says: imagine if at the end of this year it turns out that the funds would not be sufficiently strong. I say it very carefully, because it really is still hidden in the future. The League is asking you to take another look at the question of whether you can do something to help the funds to keep things going. We have, of course, had the debate on this before, both in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber. I told you about the calculus rate, you shouldn't want to touch that button. We have good agreements on that. An option also mentioned by the FNV is the recovery period. I'd like to have a map of the effects if we extend the recovery period slightly. I'd like to inform the Chamber of the possible effects. It is not clear at all whether they are only positive at the end of the ride. We must give that clarity, because this is a question that lives in the Chamber. Mrs Vermeij has also drawn attention to this, as has other Members. I would like to provide that clarity before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u42	Then we've had that one-two between the Labour Party and the Secretary of State again. Can I take this opportunity to point out that the view that there should not be a shift between generations will always be a harsh precondition, whatever action the Secretary of State will take? So no generational effects. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u43	I would very much like to map out what a shift of a recovery period would mean and then with the Chamber in conclave on whether it is a good idea. We need to know, of course, whether there are any generational effects. That's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u44	Thank you for that answer, but that was not my question. I ask the Secretary of State for a guarantee that the Cabinet does not take measures that lead to generational effects where risks are shifted to workers and young people. The Secretary of State didn't give that guarantee just now, but I hope she will give it in the second round.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u45	I have always said to Mr Van Weyenberg that the button of the calculation rate is, after all, a generation-sensitive one, which we know is not bad. I would like to map out the context of the recovery period and then, with the Chamber, carefully consider whether we should do something with that recovery period and, if so, what its effects would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u46	If you extend the recovery period, that's not a solution. The discount stays. She's getting a little less and it's taking a little longer. I have a very specific question to ask the Secretary of State: what can she say to the people sitting at a pension fund that is on the list of funds that might be cut short? The situation is worse than in May. What do these people get from the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u47	One of the questions was: when do we get another report? At the end of September we look again at the levels of coverage, by the funds themselves. They must return the results to the Dutch Bank before 15 October. The Dutch Bank then sends the matter back to the cabinet. I intend to inform the Chamber of the situation at the beginning of November. I really think we should look at that, because we sincerely do not know whether there will be any discounts in 2017. I would like to say to the Chamber that I want to look at the recovery periods in the upcoming year 2017. I honestly do not know if that would be helpful, should there be any discounts; please understand me correctly. I'd like to do that preliminary work in advance, just in case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u48	The Secretary of State says "I don't want anything with that arithmetic rate," while friend and enemy agree that the way in which it is calculated now is far too sensitive to interest rates, an interest rate that is also artificially low. Then the Secretary of State can't say in advance: I don't want to look at that? That's what you have to look at, isn't it? The FNV asks that and the Labour Party, the State Secretary's own party, actually thinks it should be different. Then the Secretary of State can't say, "I'm not looking at it." That's what you need to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u49	This is a debate we have had before. Mr Ulenbelt is aware of the attitude of the cabinet. I'll hold on to that one. It is of course very subjective to turn the button on the calculation rate, and that is precisely why we have said that an independent committee should set the calculation rate. That's what happened. We'll stick with that. Again, I would very much like to examine what it might mean if we could extend the recovery period slightly. That was also a request from the FNV; let me make that clear. I understand that people are asking when we can celebrate the next state of affairs. As I said at the time of the interruption, I expect the Dutch Bank to be able to forward the matter to us by the end of October. Then we can go to the Chamber at the beginning of November. I would celebrate the international inquiry into the rate of calculation I have promised before the end of the year, but I can try to send that study to the Chamber for budgetary treatment. I'll do my best, but I'll have to ask the CPB, of course. This evening's debate is actually quite unambiguous. I therefore only have a few questions to answer. I have taken note of the fact that some Members of Parliament naturally prelude to the debate on the future of the pension system. From their political groups, they are putting forward a number of points about this. Mr Omtzigt has indicated that the big problem is low interest rates. In fact, everyone brought that up here. Mr Omtzigt has also stated many times, not only to me, but also to the Minister of Finance and perhaps also to other members of the cabinet, that he would very much like to see a review of how ECB policy can be adjusted. My colleague from the Finance Committee has informed the Chamber that having an independent central bank is a very good thing and that we, as politicians, should be very reluctant to criticize and talk to us about the central bank's policy. In the end, the Court of Justice of the European Union will review whether the ECB remains within its mandate. I understand that the Minister of Finance sent a letter to the Chamber about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u50	Indeed, politicians should not be at the top of every European Central Bank policy decision, but the European Central Bank must comply with the mandate it has been given under the Treaty. The countries are signatories to that Convention. The participating countries therefore draw up the frameworks within which the European Central Bank may operate. I reviewed the treatment of the introduction of the euro. It was explicitly intended that the ECN would not buy bonds. It would only be considered at the end of the day if some liquidity had to be withdrawn from the market for one night. It was never intended to buy thousands of billions of bonds, to ensure that there are bonds of which the European Central Bank is the largest holder in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u51	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u52	Is the government prepared to examine the possibilities of adapting that mandate, including the possibility of a treaty change? Then, on a daily basis, the European Central Bank determines how it handles that mandate and whether it increases interest rates, for example, but we do not have the European Central Bank buying corporate bonds, for example. Will the government make that analysis in two months? What do you think that means? Is that desirable? On that basis, we have an official government position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u53	The Minister of Finance has sent the Chamber a letter on these matters. I also believe that there is a 30-member debate on this issue. The Chamber invited not only the Minister of Finance, but also a number of other directors. Mr Omtzigt now asks me whether I can say a few words about this in addition, but that letter was simply sent on behalf of the cabinet, so I will leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u54	That was a short note, in which the cabinet did not even want to comment on the possibilities that exist. Given the enormous risks that are being taken, the cabinet therefore closes its eyes to an enormous problem. After all, when it explodes at the European Central Bank, we really have a huge problem here. This is in no way proportionate to what is happening with the pensioners here, who are already suffering very much as a result. Is the Cabinet prepared to map it now? The cabinet has already refused to calculate the damage that that policy has caused, because it did not consider it necessary. Now the cabinet doesn't even want to talk about the mandate. Why not? Doesn't the Cabinet just want to tell the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u55	Again, the letter that the cabinet has already sent is simply clear. I know Mr Omtzigt well enough to know that he can and will make use of other resources to invite the members of the cabinet to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u56	Mr Omtzigt, you will have a second term in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u57	I would like to make a point of order, Mr President. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs is here on behalf of the entire cabinet. We invited her and mentioned that the ECB policy is on the agenda. It would then be appropriate for the Secretary of State to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u58	I note that the Secretary of State has given an answer, but this is not to your satisfaction. You still have a second term and the whole range of instruments the Secretary of State spoke of. You know that very well, better than anyone. I do not wish to invite you to this, but I would point out that this is a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u59	Mr. Chairman. All spokesmen have pointed out that the concern of the elderly in the Netherlands is the issue of attention. I share that very much with them. This debate is about a letter from May. Next week, purchasing power repairs will be announced. I assume that at the beginning of November we will be sitting here in the Chamber again because we will then look at the situation at that time. It is not for nothing that I have said that in the context of this debate I would very much like to investigate recovery periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u60	In my contribution I asked if the Secretary of State would like to respond to the booklet "Old people break the silence. Which now really means years of surrender." I understand the Secretary of State can't do that on the spot, but does she want to do so in writing? If she doesn't have the book, I'd like to leave it for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u61	I think that is a very nice gesture from Mr Ulenbelt. I have, of course, spoken with a lot of elderly people, including elderly people who only have AOW. Then it's just intense for the elderly. That is why I think it is so important that we do that purchasing power repair. We do not do this by looking at the pensions in the second pillar. There are all kinds of other buttons that you can touch and which offer solace especially for these elderly with the smallest wallets. That's a high priority for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u62	It appears to me that there is a need for a second term. I can see Mr Krol moving. I call Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u63	Mr. Chairman. I've already announced a motion in the first term. The calculation rate is artificially low. I stress the word "artificial." It's killing many old people now. They have concerns and can only watch. All the measures we have seen in recent years have been mainly structural for workers, but only for pensioners. The Secretary of State says he wants to see if there are any options. In particular, she mentions the recovery period. Thank you, that is a first step, but it is only a minimal solution and really only a very small first step. I think other buttons need to be turned. Couldn't you even think of a temporary adjustment of the accounting rate for the duration of the artificial interest rate? Can a pass-through be made of what that means for other generations? Anyway, 15 March is an important date, because after that there are new opportunities, but the problem is now. That is why I am tabling the motion I have already announced. I am also very happy with Mr Omtzigt's proposal, because that could also be a step forward. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas most pensions have not been indexed or even reduced in recent years;]] [[Whereas the next few years will not be indexed again and there will be a risk of further reductions in pensions;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward rapidly with proposals which will make it possible to index pensions as quickly as possible and not to reduce them;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-341]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u64	Mr. Chairman. Speaking time is one minute twenty, but I'm going to save it easily. In my opinion, the Secretary of State has barely come to an understanding of the problems that are going on in her first term. She has taken a small step with that recovery period, but that is very, very, very, very, very small, as Mr Krol said. Bigger buttons need to be turned on. The word "calculation rate" also falls now. It is artificially low, by order of the ECB in Frankfurt, which is helping the South. There is a very large part of the problem. Because the calculation rate is artificially low, the system is therefore a problem. The most important thing is that this calculation rate is artificially low because of the ECB's policy. We need to do more about that. As a PVV Group, we have often called on the Secretary of State to do so, but there is not yet the beginning of a policy. We will support the motion by Mr Krol and Mr Ulenbelt. Unfortunately, the silver border around the Secretary of State's dirty policy goes there for the people above, but much more for the people in the country, not to come. Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u65	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State doesn't want anything with that calculus rate, that's obvious. If you don't do something about that, the cuts will go on. Why is this rate of calculation now an issue? Because the funds achieve much better returns than they have to count on. This also explains why there was 700 billion in the pots before the crisis and 1 400 billion after the crisis. That 1,400 billion doesn't even end up with the elderly; it's a piss of it. It's in those jars and can only end up with young people in the future. I would like to give them my heartfelt support, but I think that something really needs to happen to the system of interest rates. It has been manipulated politically, and so there is also a political opportunity, if the Chamber so wishes, to protect pensioners from it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas pension funds are likely to have to cut short in 2017 due to extremely low interest rates;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultation with DNB in order to adjust the accounting rate in such a way as to avoid the reduction of pensions, taking into account gains from the funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-342]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u66	The Secretary of State impresses me with a rabbit staring into the headlights. She keeps saying, "We don't know yet." Every time there are reports from the organizations that understand the coverage levels, they go down and the prediction is that they go down even further. Then you have a duty to everyone to take action now and to come up with proposals so that that situation will not arise. Korten is the biggest threat to the Dutch pension system, because trust is being undermined. That's what I'm trying to keep up. So Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u67	Mr. Chairman. On Prince's Day, there will need to be more clarity about purchasing power development. That is what we are all waiting for, although we have already seen some contours. Given the balanced purchasing power picture, this is also the place to do it. It's not like you're gonna charge money in pension funds. That is not: look at the amount of money that is in cash and close the eyes of the fact that pension fund liabilities have increased even more because we are fortunately all getting older. That's not because of the interest. There's no way to do that. The Secretary of State said she wanted to investigate a possible extension of the recovery period. My group hopes, however, that the Secretary of State will stand firm when it comes to a generational balance. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment has announced that it intends to investigate a possible extension of the recovery periods for pension funds;]] [[whereas workers and young people are required to participate in our pension system and their interests must be safeguarded;]] [[calls on the government to take as a prerequisite for any measures to be taken to ensure that these generation-neutral measures are applied and that no risks from pensioners to workers and young people should be shifted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-343]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u68	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has just made a move for a proposal that could bring relief in the short term. We are proposing that the Netherlands should move back to a normal market economy in the long term. This is in the interest of pensioners, in the interest of savers, in the interest of the Dutch government which is the shareholder of DNB, which is now at risk through the European Central Bank for hundreds of billions of euros, and it is in the interest of a normal functioning market economy. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ECB is trying to move inflation towards 2% by constantly lowering interest rates and large-scale buy-up of bonds;]] [[noting that it was never the intention of the authors of the Maastricht Treaty that the central bank should buy up thousands of billions of government bonds and even corporate bonds and that the ECB would thereby place very large risks in the system of national banks;]] [[noting that the ECB's policy has reduced interest rates below zero, that the ECB has become the largest creditor in the euro area and that pensioners and savers pay the account;]] [[Calls on the Government, within two months, to identify the possibilities for the Dutch Government to stop or limit the buy-in programme, to return to a normal market economy and normal market interest rates, including limiting the ECB's mandate, for example by Treaty change;]] [[invites the Government also to forward an overview of these possibilities, including concrete proposals for action, to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-344]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u69	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its second term contribution. I'm gonna go over the motions for short. I see that no further supplementary questions have been asked. In the first motion, in part No. Mr Krol and Mr Ulenbelt asked the government to come forward with proposals which would have to be indexed and not reduced as soon as possible. In my first term, I reported that the cabinet is using other instruments to really maintain the purchasing power of older people. We'll see about that next Tuesday. The AOW is of course also an instrument that the cabinet uses to index each time. The only commitment I have made now is that the Cabinet will examine whether slightly extending the recovery periods could offer a little relief if discounts were to be considered. I'm still saying it very carefully. I would advise against this motion, because we are using other instruments. In his motion, Mr Ulenbelt asked for item No. 342 to adjust the rate of calculation in such a way as to prevent the reduction of pensions. I have also said enough in my first term about the fact that this is not being considered by the cabinet. For that reason, I also advise against this motion. Mr Van Weyenberg asked the government in his motion for a resolution on item No. In this case, the extension of the recovery moments must be seen as a prerequisite for any measures to be carried out in a generation-neutral manner. I think this motion is premature, because it is completely ahead of schedule. I would then also advise against this motion at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u70	It would be premature if I proposed a measure. In this motion, I am referring to a precondition. That is not premature; it is called a political signal. Do I understand correctly from the Secretary of State that she does not believe that measures should be generation-neutral? That is what is proposed in this motion, but the Secretary of State says he does not want it. I can't believe that. I therefore hope for another answer in the second round.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u71	The Chamber knows that the cabinet is committed to this generation neutrality. Again, I think it's too premature right now. I've promised to do an investigation, and I've got that investigation in order first. Then I will return to the Chamber with an appreciation of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u72	So I'm leaving this debate more concerned than I went into it. So far, with the support of D66, the Secretary of State has resisted the lure of parties seeking to raise interest rates and pass risks on to workers and young people. If I want to guarantee that for the future, the Secretary of State seems to think it is premature. That scared me. I heard the Secretary of State. The motion will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u73	I hear Mr Van Weyenberg very well. It is, of course, his full right to put the motion to the vote. I said what I said about the investigation. I believe that the cabinet should carry out an investigation and then return to the Chamber with the results. The last motion is by Mr Omtzigt and has the text No. 344. It invites the government to provide an overview of the possibilities for amending the ECB Treaty. In my first term, I have already noted that the Minister of Finance sent a letter on behalf of the cabinet there. I also advise against this motion, because it is clear how the cabinet handles it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u74	That letter did not address the amendment of the Treaty or the amendment of the Statute of the European Central Bank. He did not address the question of whether the European Central Bank was complying at all with the mandate that was suggested to the House of Representatives when the euro was introduced. We are doing all these things now as a proposal. Wouldn't the government at least want to study that? It does not even say that action should be taken; it says that proposals could be made to this end. Does the government ignore the risks it faces and the fact that the ECB is not doing what was promised by the Maastricht Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u75	I said in my first term that in the end the European Court will review whether the ECB remains within its mandate. I also said that it is a good thing that we have an independent central bank. On that basis, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u76	That is why it says that the mandate must be amended within the Treaty. The politicians are about the mandate and the treaty, the European Central Bank is about day-to-day implementation. The Court can then again complain about this. The Court also stated in the Gauweiler judgment that it is up to the political authorities to give the mandate. I therefore ask the government: does it think that the current mandate is appropriate to the euro and its risks? If she is in doubt about this, she should leave my motion to the Chamber and study it herself. The government can also say that it is appropriate, but this extreme policy seems to me to be a bit premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u77	This is, of course, not the first time that the government has had an exchange of views with the Chamber. I'm pushing my judgment on this motion. So I will not leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. I sincerely believe that the Minister for Finance, in his letter on behalf of the cabinet, said his own. I'll stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u78	Mr President, I would like to make a change to my motion. You can do that with the microphone now, and that'll save you the trouble. I want to remove the second part of the sentence in the operative part of my motion. So I want to stop after "generation-neutral unpacking" and put a stop to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u79	The Van Weyenberg motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment has announced that it intends to investigate a possible extension of the recovery periods for pension funds;]] [[whereas workers and young people are required to participate in our pension system and their interests must be safeguarded;]] [[calls on the government to take as a prerequisite for any measures to be taken to ensure that they are of a generation-neutral nature,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 343 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u80	Your question to the Secretary of State is whether that would change her judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u81	Now that you ask that question, Mr President, I am curious to hear her answer. I thought I'd modified the motion more with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u82	Does that change your judgment, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u83	The scope of the motion therefore does not change. I would therefore advise against this motion, on the understanding that once again I say that we are going to carry out that investigation and then return to the Chamber with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u84	I see that Mr Van Weyenberg is not making another attempt to adjust his operative part and that is all. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-15-tweedekamer-17.u85	The motions tabled in this debate are likely to be put to the vote in the next week and otherwise in the following week. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber and the Members for their input into the debate.
