ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of the department concerned. Speaking time is three minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. About a year ago, a group of general practitioners nailed a manifesto on the door of the VWS ministry. They were done, and the helm had to change. They saw the care system derailed, an atmosphere of competition and mistrust arose instead of cooperation and a situation in which the price was more important than quality. In no time, a majority of the general practitioners supported the manifesto. There were conversations between the general practitioners, the health insurance companies and the ministry. In those conversations, there were three points on the table. The first point was: away with the Competition Act. The second point was that there had to be cooperation and negotiation on an equal basis. Thirdly, there had to be confidence in the professional. On October 5, 2015, the news came that there was an agreement. The rudder would handle. That was a nice first step, but now we have to move on. We have to get rid of market forces, we have to get rid of the Competition Act for GPs, and there really must be confidence. First of all, we must ensure that the crippling bureaucracy disappears forever: away forever with this organised distrust. In doing so, we must avoid shifting responsibility instead of disappearing. For example, if a general practitioner does not have to fill out a form for prescribing incontinence material, we must prevent the pharmacist from having to answer more. And we have to make sure that medical assistants in the hospital don't keep asking for all kinds of forms because otherwise they're gonna get to the health insurance company. Secondly, general practitioners really need to be relieved of the Competition Act. The Authority Consumer & Market gives the general practitioners more room, but that is not enough. General practitioners should simply be able to cooperate well with each other, without the Competition Act remaining a threat. I have tabled a motion on this subject with Mrs Dik-Faber. I am disappointed that we will not receive the results of this motion until after the summer. Are these results not too late for the 2017 contracts? Thirdly, the professional needs to be trusted again. Let them monitor the quality of care and guarantee it based on mirror information. Why does the professional have to prove he's doing well day in, day out? Assessing the quality of care is not a task for health insurers. After all, it cannot be simplified to some numbers and protocols. The health insurance companies shouldn't be sitting on the professional's seat. Mandatory peer review and...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u3	May I interrupt you for a moment? This debate is about a single incident. It's being discussed. The things you are now raising are out of the order of the debate. Of course, we always walk a little along the edge. I understand that, and I'll allow it. However, I would ask you to stick to the subject of this debate, and that is the one incident. That's what it's been requested for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u4	The debate is about the manifesto The helm must be nailed against the façade of the ministry. But of course it is about the content of that manifesto and about what we are going to do with it. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u5	Let me put it this way: take account of my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u6	I understand, but I do not have the impression that I am going beyond the meaning of this debate. I was talking about peer review and visitation. Allow the Health Inspectorate to monitor the quality and remove the quality assessment from the health insurance provider. I come to the fact that all health insurance companies deal differently with purchasing, for example, POH-GGZ and palliative care. Without a contract, there's no compensation. That leads to undesirable differences. Every patient of every general practitioner must have the same possibilities. How's the Minister gonna guarantee this? I understand the manifesto is no longer present. It's not nailed to the Ministry's façade anymore. I hope, however, that the thoughts have taken shape within the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u7	Mr. Chairman. It's been a while, but on March 11, 2015, the general practitioners quite rightly put a manifesto on the door of the VWS Ministry to ask for political and insurance cooperation based on equivalence and trust in their medical expertise. That plea, which the CDA has been supporting for years, was once again able to support the CDA. For the CDA, the general practitioner is the centre of the care, the gateway to specialized care. However, the general practitioner is more than that. He or she knows the people and the neighborhood, the nurses and the caregivers who come home to the people and has a good overview of the situation in which his patients are in and can play a good role in this. Since March 2015, now a year ago, time has not stood still. The same applies to the actions that have been taken. As of 1 January 2016, the first agreements are in force to reduce the administrative burden on general practitioners. In this first round it is mainly about reducing the number of additional forms for medicines, tools and referrals. That's a good result. It is only very short, as the CDA realizes, but is there anything known about the first experiences? The Minister writes that the drafting of the recommendations will follow later this year. The CDA understands that working groups have been set up for this purpose. What priorities do the working groups set? After all, a whole range of recommendations is being drawn up. When are the results expected? What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the Leijten/Dik-Faber motion? Earlier, the Minister wrote in a letter that she would investigate this further. How do these working groups relate to this one motion? Of course, the general practitioners are not the only ones who have to deal with a huge administrative burden in primary care. Then it's also about the pharmacists and the physiotherapists. In what period will other suppliers be able to make similar agreements in the first line and thus finally do more on their work and less on paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u8	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party considers it important that the general practitioners have been able to make a fist and that they have started the conversation with both the Ministry of Health Insurance and the Ministry of Labour. The Labour Party, like the field parties, stands for cooperation, equality and quality in general care. Mutual trust between the general practitioner and the health insurance provider is crucial here. In primary care, general practitioners have a central function. They play an important role. Cooperation and equality are important here, as are cutting red tape. The Labour Party is incredibly curious how things are going. We can use the fact that we have not yet had urgent debates in the Chamber as an indication that things are going well. I'm very curious. Perhaps the Minister already has more information than just "so far so good; we do not hear anything serious." Since it is too early to ask for results or for an evaluation, I should like to leave it at that. The Labour Party is very much in favour of developments. We think it is too early to ask for results. We are curious whether the Minister has reached signals that have not reached us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u9	Does the Labour Party endorse the manifesto The helm must change?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u10	We welcomed the initiative. We welcome the fact that the manifesto has been taped to the Ministry's door.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u11	I therefore understand that the Labour Party is also in favour of the requirements of the general practitioners. I think it is a good thing that the Chamber should express its opinion on this, so that it can also be given to the Minister, but we will do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u12	I had all these principles here, but I thought: (a) Mr Van Gerven has already mentioned them and (b) it is nothing new, because we are talking about a year ago. That is why I did not mention the parts of the manifesto. I believe that Mr Van Gerven has not asked a further question, so I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u13	Mr. Chairman. It is now almost a year since the manifesto The helm has to be confirmed to the Ministry of Health. The activist general practitioners who did so have achieved a great deal and deserve a great compliment. They identified a number of serious problems which they faced as general practitioners and a solution which, as far as I am concerned, was unwise and unnecessary. The solution that has finally been found, namely a good dialogue between general practitioners, people from the Ministry, health insurers, patients and the Authority Consumer & Market, has shown how it is done: enter into dialogue, solve the real problems and stay away from all kinds of ideological discussions, because they do not solve anything at all. The fact that this step has been taken deserves a great compliment and follow-up. I would like to leave it at that. I do have a procedural comment to make. Almost a year ago, on 12 March, this debate was requested by Mrs Leijten van de SP. She's not here today. The debate was initiated with the support of the groups of D66, Christian Union, 50PLUS and GroenLinks. They too are not here today. This debate is completely out of order because of the long period of time. It really says something about how we deal with debates and 30-member debates in this house. I would ask the Bureau to look very critically at this, because we are really wasting our time here, and that is a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u14	I admit that your last comment will be passed on to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u15	First of all, I would like to say a few words about Mr Rutte's last comment. It does matter. Mr Rutte has a point to make when he says that those who have supported this debate are not there, but that does not alter the content. The fact that it takes a long time has nothing to do with the content but with the way things are going here in the House of Representatives. We are responsible for this, but I would not like the suggestion to be raised that the substance is not a particularly important subject. Then I'll get to the content. A crucial point is that the general practitioners have been brought under the market forces system. There is a dialogue now, there is consultation, but we remain in a competitive system. Given the nature of the general practitioner's profession, would it not be appropriate to exclude general practitioner's care from the Competition Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u16	Let me go into the process first. The question is not whether the manifesto should be the helm of interest or whether the process that then started is important; that is important. It led to solutions six months ago. So it is really no longer time for this debate to take place. We can talk about it in all the other debates on general care and primary care that have been planned for a long time. This 30-member debate is therefore completely unnecessary. I'll get to the content. Mr Van Gerven is doing exactly what I did not do and what I also thought was wrong about the general practitioners' manifesto, namely: on the one hand, rightly naming problems, but on the other hand, choosing not a substantive but an ideological solution. These ideological solutions may feel good, but they lead to nothing. Gather together, engage in dialogue and solve the real problems. That's what happened here. We should do that more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u17	If it hadn't been for the general practitioners' competition law, it wouldn't have been there. Then you can say 'let's not do ideology', but precisely because of that law and the fact that we created the Health Insurance Act with that competitive character, dragged his general practitioners to justice, for years, general practitioners have paid millions of dollars and in practice we have been left with a great deal of distrust and bureaucracy. We need to talk, that's for sure. But wouldn't it be better to remove the cause of problems, arise and persist? The problems haven't all been solved; I have just mentioned a few of them by creating a better system in which we can safeguard the general practitioner who is focused on cooperation from that competitive model?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u18	General practitioners are allowed to work together. This has also been made clear by the dialogue that has taken place. I absolutely do not want to go back to the time of the old days when general practitioners kept new entrants out of the door because they didn't come true to them. That wasn't good either. Competition law has a role to play, but should not prevent necessary cooperation. This dialogue is ongoing and should be maintained in particular. We can do that within this system. This can be done with an evolution; we do not need a revolution for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u19	I have found that the Minister can reply immediately. I invite her to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u20	Mr. Chairman. I also find it a bit of a difficult debate, I have to say. After a manifesto has been hammered onto our glass jars, some things have happened. The Chamber is involved in this. I have entered a path where I have said that we should always consider how to do better. We've completed that trajectory. There's been a lot of meetings this summer. A result came from that, which I sent to the Chamber. Then I informed the Chamber that it is not just a matter of the general practitioners, but also something of the other primary care providers. I have therefore started the same trajectory with other primary care providers. To this end, there are six working groups, including physiotherapists and pharmacists. We hope to get results there before the summer. With the general practitioners we started a follow-up. It's running. On April 2nd is the General Medical Fair. Then I hope to have completed the follow-up and to be able to send what we have achieved to the Chamber. We work very well together in the working groups. There are, of course, discussions. That is good, because there are also different interests represented. However, we are going through one door very well. Mr Van Gerven asked about the investigation why was asked in the motion on the Competition Act. He cannot be surprised that this will come in July 2016. It won't be that long. The research questions have been addressed with the Lower House. The Chamber has therefore been fully involved in the launching of that investigation. It's on schedule. I said in the course of the investigation that I do not feel comfortable excluding the care from the Competition Act, because that law is there for the protection of the patient. If something happens to a patient's disadvantage, it's not allowed. If anything happens in terms of collaboration that's in the patient's favor, it's okay. So I feel something for it? No, but I'd be happy to have it investigated. As I said, that will come in July. The working groups all work within the current law. I have no intention of abolishing it. I think I have answered all the outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u21	Would the Minister be able to answer the next question I have asked? That question was about the different ways in which health insurers deal with the POH-GGZ and palliative care. I understand that there are differences between the health insurance companies: one does this and the other does that. It is undesirable that there are differences. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u22	The working groups look very closely at all kinds of differences. We have several health insurers, four large and then a lot of small, together by the age of twenty. That is why we have asked ourselves whether we should not standardise a little more. If you're asking, you actually want to know the quality information. So we are in a path, in the quality working group, in which we are looking at how we can deal with it more intelligently. That trajectory has not yet been completed. The first results were obtained by the Chamber; I sent them to the Chamber. The second bups of results have not yet been completed. I do not feel free now to say that we are going to take care of this. We are looking together in a working group at how we can standardise the forms more and coordinate them more, how we can mirror the quality, how we can rely much more on visitation rather than ticking lists and how we can rely much more on trust rather than asking out all kinds of things that do not matter. That is the general task that we feel with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u23	That's not an answer to my question. The POH-GGZ and the palliative care are in fact crucial, basic general care services. Would it not be a good thing if it were simply agreed that all insurers should draw a common line on this point and that we should agree on how we do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u24	We are working on this simplification in many areas. What is the outcome of this, we shall see at the end of the journey. Our commitment is to standardize the request as much as possible. If we want good care, it is also important that we ask it in the same way, because ultimately it is about the essence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u25	That brings us to the Prime Minister's first-term reply. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. I note that there is no such need among a number of Members, but I suspect that this need is present with Mr Van Gerven. That suspicion is based on some experience. My suspicions are correct. I call Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u26	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, at the end of the Minister's speech, it is a question of uniformity, so that there are no differences between insurers. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that health insurance is not about determining the quality of care but purely an executive task;]] [[calls on the Government to remove decisions on the quality of care from health insurers and to place them in full with the professions;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-685]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u27	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a majority of GPs support the manifesto prepared by the Action Committee Het Roer Om and that this applies to many parties in the first line and beyond;]] [[Considers that the agreements now made between the general practitioners, the Ministry, the ACM and the health insurance companies are a first step in the right direction, but that the requirements of the manifesto have not yet been fully met;]] [[invites the government, in cooperation with the general practitioners, the ACM and the health insurance companies to realize the whole manifesto,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-686]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u28	All other Members shall waive the term of office in the second term. The Minister can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u29	Mr. Chairman. I haven't got the motions in front of me yet, but I've heard what the wallet of the motions is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u30	If you think you can answer, you should. Otherwise, we'll wait for the motions to arrive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u31	If insurers buy only at price, it seems to me to be a huge impoverishment of our system. This would mean that an insurer no longer pays attention to the fact that some parties are slightly better than average. This seems very undesirable to me. I therefore advise against the Van Gerven motion in part No. 685. Mr Van Gerven's second motion, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van Gerven, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution That manifesto gave rise to the aforementioned talks. We all took a good look at that. It is not the case that the manifesto dictates something to the other parties. Mr Van Gerven mentions the insurers, but the patients are also at the table. That seems to me to be the first party to be mentioned here. The patients also have their questions to general practitioners. What can we know about the general practitioners? On what basis can we choose our GP? These seem to me to be very important elements. VWS brought in things, too. For example, as a group, we are working on something that is perhaps even better than just the wishes of one of the parties. That is why I would certainly advise against this motion. In addition to the general practitioners and insurers, we also have the patients and others who play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u32	Mr Van Gerven, on the Minister's assessment of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u33	I don't understand the Minister's judgment very well. She brings in all sorts of things. It's okay. But does the Minister agree with the manifesto?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u34	The manifesto belongs to the general practitioners and not to me. The manifesto has been a reason to speak with each other, as a group, i.e. with patients, insurers, general practitioners, the NZa, the ACM and the NHG. That turned out to be what I sent to the Chamber. We're working on a second tranche right now. The Action Committee The Roar Must Om has drawn up a manifesto that is his manifesto. It has also shown what it has achieved. We are constructively in the process of taking new steps to further reduce bureaucracy, to ensure even better quality and to see how cooperation can be improved. That's what I'm working on. I have no further need to endorse any manifesto.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u35	Then I may conclude that the Minister does not fully endorse the manifesto.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u36	The manifesto was brought in by the general practitioners. It has been the subject of conversation and then we have made something new. For example, the manifesto states that the Competition Act must be abolished. I'm not in favour of that at all. I think that the Competition Act protects the patient and I think protection of the patient is very important. That's just one part. There are also many good things in it, which I am very pleased with, such as the bureaucracy, which we let go and where everyone puts their pee on top, so that we build a tower. I'm glad we're all going through that together. There are very good things in that manifesto, but it is the manifesto of the general practitioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-17.u37	I thank the Minister for her answers and her presence.
