ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u1	There is a speaking time of four minutes per group, and we have just agreed that there may be two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. Preliminary conclusion: deposit money is the most expensive system of all. Is that a final conclusion of a thorough report on all the advantages and disadvantages of different systems for collecting plastic bottles? No. It is the design of an investigation which is still to be carried out, an investigation whose conclusion is already established without any actual research being carried out. Shadow investigation. We all use lobbyists. Does the Minister agree that checks and balances are important and that it should be the code of conduct not only to talk to corporate lobbyists but also to lobbyists from environmental and consumer organisations? The problem is that laws and regulations are made on the basis of controlled research and under pressure from the lobby from the business community. Does the Minister agree with me that it is of the utmost importance for legislation and for the information position of the House of Representatives to be able to rely on the many investigations and reports that are published on her every day? Does the Minister agree with me that it is very bad when a ministry puts pressure on researchers to come up with the desired results? After all, this is not a slipper of an overzealous official. Not only the deposit money debate, but also the introduction of stricter practical tests after the Volkswagen scandal bends politics for industry. Shell, whose top man says he'll keep pumping until there's nothing left to pump, is pushing to shape the sustainable energy policy. And for the bill of profit distribution hospitals, the contribution of the financial sector was decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u3	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u4	Before I give you the floor, I note that we have just agreed that the spokesmen have two interruptions. An interruption is a question and a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u5	Does Mr Van Gerven know the Dutch Government's position on the emissions of Volkswagen cars in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u6	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u7	Well, the Dutch Government voted against that proposal because it did not think it went far enough. It has thus indicated that Volkswagen must meet the emission requirements we would like to see and be as they should have been. It has thus taken an exceptional position in Europe. I would like that to be recognised in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u8	That is noted, but do you also know the outcome in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u9	No, we're not gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u10	I was replying, Mr President; this was a rhetorical question. Does Mr Vos know the outcome in Brussels? Because that is where the Volkswagen lobby got its full meaning. It is the phenomenon that business lobbying is extremely strong and strong. Mr Vos is right that, in the case of the Volkswagen lobby, the government has remained in the right position. However, that was certainly not the case in Brussels. There the matter has been postponed again, which has benefited industry but not for the benefit of sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr Van Gerven complains here about the lobby of business. Should he not also complain about the lobby of the asylum industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u12	We believe that everyone, every lobbyist, should be able to do their job well, but that the public interest should be guiding. That's up to all of us. A particular private interest should not prevail at the expense of the general interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u13	I think it's kind of a weird thing. There is nothing good about the corporate lobby and the Minister gets it from the SP, while the SP spokesperson on asylum is drowning in literal texts from the asylum lobby. We could read that in the paper this morning. Motions are even being used with literal texts from the asylum industry. Doesn't Mr Van Gerven think it's a little hypocritical that he says here that the lobby of business is so bad, but in the meantime he thinks the lobby of the asylum industry is fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mrs. Klever didn't listen very well. We're not against lobbying. We are not against lobbying by business or lobbying by people who love asylum seekers. It is about transparency and balance, and also about the objectivity of scientific research. The latter was the direct cause for this debate. In the discussion about the deposit money is simply cheated on by investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u15	You are, of course, preparing yourself for this kind of debate as best you can. You actually felt it coming: a flood of bad things is being scattered over us. I have two examples, one from the archaeology file and one from the development aid file, of cases where the SP takes over one-on-one motions from lobbyists, after which we get the request or we do not want to support such a good motion. What does Mr Van Gerven think of this approach of his colleagues and of Members of Parliament in general?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u16	We know that all Members of Parliament are being lobbied. We are not opposed to that. We are not against lobbying, because we are not shutting ourselves off from the world. However, we believe that everyone should be able to be heard properly and proportionately and that certain interests should not be so decisive as to affect reality. I do not know which motions or texts Mr Van Veen means, but a political party can support a particular group or party's ambition. Personally, I am not in favour of literally overwriting motions. Personal thinking is appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u17	I think it would be wise if I just sat down again, but at least Mr Van Gerven moderates his tone. He immediately mentions Volkswagen and Shell. Anyone can hear him mention those names. I think Mr Van Gerven should moderate his tone and simply say what he really has in mind. Apparently, he is no better than the average politician in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u18	I note that Volkswagen has operated in an outrageous way. It has been obscured that Volkswagen's cars emit more than was agreed. Nevertheless, Volkswagen gets away with it in Brussels. It is extremely workable that the bad guy just gets away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u19	Does Mr Van Gerven see this more as a rule or more as an exception? The CDA advocates that you, as a People's Representative, also take a close look at your own responsibility. In the end, you're gonna make your own decision. We want to prevent us from going to a system of ticking lists. How does the SP view this? On such a system you come when you have to weigh everything from the grievance and far behind the comma. Then you also need to keep track of why you made a certain decision and why you filed a motion in a certain way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u20	Perhaps Mrs Mulder could explain what she means by 'digging lists'. The reason for this debate was Magda Smink's dissertation. It shows, among other things, on the basis of the deposit file, how the industry operates. Coca-Cola wants to get rid of the deposit money system with all the force and runs all kinds of roads in that context. In doing so, science is subjected to violence. The WUR has thus come into an evil light. That was the reason for this debate. I think we should agree here on how we can prevent this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u21	I believe that the Wageningen UR has its own responsibility in this regard. She shouldn't have any tests done that come out this way. In my view, the WUR has also taken measures by now. Then the question remains whether the SP equates all companies. Will all responsibility be taken away and we will soon have to go to work with ticking lists, in order to avoid anything from the grievances? I ask the SP where the responsibility lies in that case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u22	I don't know where the CDA's gonna go with those ticking lists. What was so bad about the deposit? On the one hand, the operation of the WUR, on the other hand, the operation of an "overzealous" official, who expressly interferes with the content of the report in order to obtain a certain outcome, because the State Secretary had made a ruling on the deposit. I therefore believe that this is not good and that we must prevent it from happening again. Furthermore, I don't understand exactly what you mean by those ticking lists. Mr. Chairman. I had remained in the hospital profit distribution, where the contribution of the financial sector was also decisive. In this way, the cabinet is shaping its neoliberal policy. Legislation comes about with the help of industry and industry. Involuntary noises are pushed aside. Research is provided by researchers who are dependent on industry for funding. Former directors or senior officials are now employed by industry and lobbying for commercial interests. Pieter van Geel was Secretary of State for the Environment and became a lobbyist for soft drinks manufacturers for water from plastic bottles. Schouw, a Member of Parliament, has gone to work for the pharmaceutical industry. Eurlings became director of KLM from his aviation position. Verhagen went to Building Netherlands. Does the Minister agree with me that it must be clear forever who wrote what law and what interests are served? Does he share the view that there should be an end to all appearances of conflict of interest when it comes to providing information to the House of Representatives? How is he going to prevent excrement, such as the influence in the deposit money debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u23	Mr Van Gerven, you mention names of people who are not taking part in this debate and who cannot defend themselves. So I'd be a little more reluctant about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u24	Mr President, that is correct. My former colleague, Mr Schouw, was also mentioned. That is all right, but I shall speak for him on this point, in the sense that I would like to ask you a question, Mr Van Gerven. What exactly did you mean by this? What did you mean by saying that Mr Schouw works for the pharmaceutical industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u25	I do not think that is desirable. Mr Schouw has made his own assessment, regardless of whether or not someone has to leave the Chamber in the meantime while he has a mandate for four years, because that is also a point of discussion, but the fact that you are going to work directly in an industry where you have to sit around the table again the next day, as it were, is not chic. It's also called the job carousel. We shouldn't do that. That's not good for politics. That's not good for the government. That is not good for the officials, and that is not good for the rulers either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u26	Does Mr Van Gerven dare to say that there is not a single SP'er who has taken a similar step in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u27	I wouldn't know if there is one. We all know that Paul Jansen became alderman in Utrecht at the time, but that is a function in the public sector, and that is something that I think is different from a function in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u28	However, I would ask that the names be omitted and that individual cases should not be discussed with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u29	So basically the SP says: if you've been in the Lower House, you can't go into business, because that's impossible, but if you're going into public office, it's fine. Is that the position of the SP in this situation? I'd like to get it sharp. You're standing here with a really big pair of pants on and you've got a lot of talk, but I think you've got your story wrong. Is anyone allowed to work for the business community after being a member of parliament? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u30	You may, but I would be in favour of a cooling-off period. I'm not alone in that, by the way. In this sense, Minister Dijsselbloem has also spoken out about directors. Not every industry has daily to do with the Lower House. It is therefore also a question of what role you are going to play in business. If I could quote the outgoing Member of Parliament of D66: he has the day after he left again directly to do with the policy in the House of Representatives. I don't think that's desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u31	Mr Van Gerven of the SP says that in the end you can work in the business world, although that did come out a bit difficult. There must be a cooling-off period first. In that period, you might be able to make use of waiting money. But yes, the SP also thinks the waiting money is very dirty that you shouldn't actually use. So what is it now, I ask Mr Van Gerven of the SP. It's one or the other, and not both.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u32	Yeah, there's a lot of flavors. It's okay to work in the free business. That is excellent; the SP does not oppose it at all. It is, of course, about functions in which you, for example as a lobbyist, have to deal directly with the House of Representatives. This was the case in the case of the outgoing D66 MP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u33	Nevertheless, I object to the way in which the SP qualifies people here and talks about business functions as if they were very dirty. Profit is also very dirty. The continuity of a business is also very dirty. In the end, this will create jobs. What does the SP want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u34	I didn't say any of that. I'm not against companies making profits. I am only talking here about the functioning of executives, top officials, MPs, people who have a special role in the public system. So we need to think very carefully about what we are going to do after that work. I'm not alone in that. I have just said that Mr Dijsselbloem said that it was very unwise for outgoing directors to work at banks, not to mention names.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u35	My request to Mr Van Gerven to moderate his tone has been in vain. I'm gonna try again. According to Mr Van Gerven, is a person from the business community allowed to enter the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u37	That is a surprise, because such a person has worked in the business community and could simply allow the interests of his former employer to be taken into account in decisions he makes. Is a former politician allowed to work at, for example, Refugee Work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u38	He's welcome to work at Refugee Work. He can also work in the free enterprise. The point is that he does not come into a position, for example as a lobbyist, in which there may be some kind of conflict of interest. We simply do not think that this is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u39	Mr President, I hope I can do it again. Unfortunately, I have had to burn up my interruptions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u41	I continue to be amazed at the position of the SP, who actually wants someone who is a politician to crawl under a rock for the rest of his life. He may be an employed man, but he can't find anything. I am very concerned about that. I also think that the SP cannot maintain this in the long term. I regret that this has set the tone of the debate, because you can also tell a very positive story within the context of this subject. That is my question to Mr Van Gerven: is that positive story still going to happen or is that not going to happen anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u42	No, Mr. Chairman. It is true that two years ago a outgoing MP of the VVD tweeted something very positive about a company and joined that company two years later. I just don't think that's good for Parliament's standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u43	The tone of the SP is fine with me. Mr Van Gerven may choose the tone he chooses, but I think he has the content to shoot. He just talked about the "free business." You can sit in the Chamber and switch to the "free business." Can Mr Van Gerven indicate what he means by the 'free enterprise'? The "free business" can also lobby the Lower House, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u44	The free company is even allowed to lobby at the Lower House. That's what I said. Neither does the SP. She does resist being a politician one day and lobbying the next day, for example for the pharmaceutical industry. We do not think that is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u45	And as a...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u46	I do not think that I would like to see anyone I have debated with today as a lobbyist again tomorrow. I'm in favour of some kind of cooling-off period. It's customary. I'm here to talk about some sort of code of conduct. I am very much in favour of us agreeing with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u47	I've rarely heard such a confusing argument. Mr Van Gerven talks about a cooling-off period, but the SP opposes waiting money. It is ridiculous to combine these two things in this way. Then there's nothing to go on. If the SP Group thinks that you should not switch to business and to public functions, then I would say that it is also strange to switch to a certain large city from the Lower House. You're gonna go back to the Chamber from that big city and try to defend certain interests, aren't you? I would advise Mr Van Gerven to think carefully first of all about what he really wants to say before he starts standing here with a very big mouth saying that other Members of Parliament, other parties and other groups are not doing well, while the SP is not doing well either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u48	We really make a distinction between the public sector and the various public authorities serving the general interest and a company serving a personal interest. We have just had a debate on this. Then you heard Mrs Gesthuizen make a certain proposal. This is also based on information received from industry. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is talking to everyone, wiping out and weighing that up, and then raising issues which we hope will benefit the public interest. In the end, there's not much wrong with lobby. It becomes a problem when policy is determined using the most powerful player without offering alternative sounds space. It must be clear who sits at the table during a trial. How's the Minister gonna take care of that? Does he see anything in transparency about the influence of lobbyists during the legislative process, the lobby section or the legislative footprint? How does he intend to deal with the so-called job-carousel of former rulers and representatives of the people, now in the service of business, which fosters conflict of interest? We propose that measures be taken to prevent so-called fraud investigations, to stop lobbying practices being washed out. Any unauthorized interference by a ministry must be dealt with. Independence must be guaranteed. We therefore propose that any investigation commissioned by a ministry should initially be sent directly to the Lower House, that it should be prohibited for a ministry to influence research conclusions, that it should be clear who sat at the table at what time of the trial and that the exchange of posts by the jobs carousel should end. These coherent measures will pull lobbyism out of the backrooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u49	The Labour Party has tabled an initiative proposal. I am very surprised to hear from the SP now that the whole initiative proposal has been brought up without a source. Does Mr Van Gerven agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u50	Can you name something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u51	The revolving door policy of directors, a public lobby section. Everything Mr Van Gerven says is still a bit of a SP sauce which brings it a bit more militant and is a bit exaggerated. But the whole lobby section is part of our own proposal. The same applies to the policy of turning the door, and so there are other things. Mr Van Gerven has also forgotten a few. I'd like him to be a little more respectable. My colleagues Lea Bouwmeester and Astrid Oosenbrug presented the proposal a few months ago. I can hear Mr Van Gerven quoting it directly without reference to the source.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u52	The beauty of the Labour Party is that it has brought in all kinds of beautiful elements that we have already brought in. Mr Vos is running away now, but can he say why the Labour Party voted against the Merkies motion which advocated the introduction of a lobby paragraph?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u53	Mr Vos, you walk away, but if you ask a question, you must also listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u54	Do you want answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u55	Mr Van Gerven, please continue. Mr. Vos really shouldn't run away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u56	He doesn't want to answer and he can. Have you heard my question, Mr Vos?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u57	It is quite clear to me that the SP is doing what it is good at, namely to position itself on the left of the Labour Party without reference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u58	Do you know where the lobby section, the legislative footprint, comes from? It's from the De Wit Committee. The Chamber has discussed this a long time ago. Mr Merkies said in 2014: let's legally anchor that legislative footprint, that lobby paragraph. But what happened? Mr Vos voted against. The Labour Party voted against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u59	Mr President, with your permission, I shall begin with a preliminary remark. I am also the spokesman for a general discussion on agricultural poison today. These consultations are currently taking place and I will therefore return to that AO in the first term after my contribution. A member of the political group will follow this debate at a distance and keep me informed. I ask for clemency for the fact that I will leave the Chamber after my contribution. I begin my contribution to this debate with an important recommendation from Magda Smink's PhD research; the study has already been cited by Mr Van Gerven. That is the reason for this debate. I quote: 'The government must develop its own vision and not let itself be steered by companies and institutions that only represent their own vested interest'. That recommendation is not surprising. Of course, the government should not promote the interests of just a company, but the interests of all of us. What is surprising is that this recommendation is obviously necessary. It is surprising that it is evidently necessary to point out to the government that it should take the right side when public interests clashed with private interests of companies, such as when the importance of a viable planet clashes with the importance of a company to produce as cheaply as possible the environmental costs to society. For example, such a company can choose to manipulate investigations, so that it seems as if deposit money on plastic bottles is bad for the environment and plastic drinking bottles are not a serious litter problem, because there are cigarette butts on the street as well. The importance of the people in Groningen clashes with the importance of the NAM, Shell and Esso to pump as much gas out of the ground as possible, regardless of the consequences for the Groningers. For example, the importance of public health, the future of agriculture and biodiversity conflicts with the interests of poison producers, who continue to market deliberately and knowingly agricultural poison, which seriously threatens insects and nature. Why does the government find it so difficult to choose the public interest in these cases, for the long term and for human, animal and environmental health? Why is it too often found that companies send in the direction they want? It's shifting responsibilities to commercial parties. It is a symptom of a government that is itself without ideas and without a vision of where our society should go. It is also a lazy government, which lets itself be whispered into solutions by the same companies that caused the problems. It is companies that have an interest in the status quo, which have the most influence on policy. Does the Minister recognise what is called "mostribble" in the investigation? That is slowing down policy that is not in your own interest by inventing bears and pits on the path of alternative policy. This way the status quo will remain in place. This intertwinedness between business, civil servants, representatives of the people and rulers also contributes greatly to the effectiveness of the government lobby: we know us, old-boy bread; of course we take your interest into account, because your interest is our interest and our interest is your interest, dude! The pressing question now is whether the Minister himself understands that this great and secret influence of business is a problem? If so, what will he do to change this? In what way will he ensure that not established commercial interests dominate, but the public interest, the long-term interest of a viable earth and a resilient and healthy living environment? In what way does the Minister deal with commercial clubs that manipulate investigations in the future? How is he going to ensure that not only the well-known faces talk about new policies, but also, above all, the many young, innovative, creative, sustainable inventors and entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u60	Thank you, Mr Wassenberg, and good luck with your debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u61	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is the dissertation of a Utrecht PhD candidate, who believes that the corporate lobby dictates the sustainability policy of this cabinet. First of all, I would like to congratulate the PhD candidate on her promotion. It has undoubtedly cost a lot of money and effort to write the dissertation and it is quite an achievement to promote. In the dissertation, the PhD candidate argues that new players in the sustainable market are lagging behind because they lack knowledge, experience and resources. The lobbying of parties with vested interests would be much more powerful. For example, Trouw's daily sustainability skatern has stated that large established companies have been steering the energy transition in the Netherlands for years and that the media are an easy target for these corporate lobbies. It is quite remarkable that we are holding this debate in the year in which this minister grants EUR 13 billion in subsidies for renewable energy. This is a great achievement for sustainable entrepreneurs who are lagging behind. Especially if you compare that EUR 13 billion grant with the EUR 7 billion that Shell alone pays in all kinds of taxes every year, that's how we read in Het Financieele Dagblad two years ago. The best lobbyist therefore pays 7 billion taxes and the injured parties receive 13 billion in subsidies. That is at least remarkable and for us it is a reason to take the dissertation with a few grains of salt. Even if we look at the energy agreement, which actually dictates the energy transition, we can see that there were no less than 40 parties at the table. Of those 40 parties, only one represented the fossil industry, namely the industry organisation Energy-Netherlands. In short, if government policy is dictated by lobbyists, then it is the lobbyists of the sustainable industry who, at the expense of the citizens, are bringing in as much as 13 billion in subsidies this year. Sustainability also reigns in politics. The sustainability position is supported by the full Chamber, with the exception of the PVV. Every newcomer has to say that he has a sustainable idea and he can go anywhere, from the VVD to GroenLinks, for subsidies. We find the same image in the media. Because so much and so much is written about sustainability, the Dutch people think that our country is up to 38% on renewable energy, whereas in reality that is less than 6%, according to a recent study by Motivation. A debate on the impact of fossil industry on this government's sustainability policy therefore seems to us to be superfluous. However, just to be sure, we would like to call on the Minister to represent all Dutch people, including those working on a drilling platform, at a coal power plant or in the energy-intensive industry. The PVV asks this minister for a balanced policy, which serves our economy and employment. As far as we are concerned, this balanced policy does not consist of subsidising too expensive sustainability initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u62	Mr. Chairman. As a new Member of Parliament, I once sat in my provisional chamber. I was just there when someone came in from another political party, not the VVD or the Labour Party. He started talking to me about subsidies for something. I thought, what's this about? Where did this gentleman come from? What's he doing here? How did he get here? I asked him all that and we talked for at least four to five minutes. My personal assistant just happened to come in and ask, "Who is this gentleman?" I said, "I don't know either, but could you maybe take him back?" Turns out it was someone with a card. Why did the gentleman have a card? That was because he was a former chamber member, who indeed came to lobby. From that incident, you can conclude two things. The first is that we must do something about this system of chamber passes and the way in which it is used by people, as my party has suggested before. The second is that you really don't have to worry too much, because a Member of Parliament sitting here understands when lobbying and when not. We might just put that gentleman out again. You keep it, at least for the time being but also for the most part, neatly off the agenda. I can give you another example. This was an old executive. He came along a bit later, with the necessary aplomb, because after all you are an old executive. The gentleman came to negotiate. That's what he said: "I'm here to negotiate on a subject." I said, "But Mr. Secretary, excuse me, Mr. Lobbyist, you didn't come here with the States General, did you? You can't do that. I am a member of the States General and I was elected by the people. I am a representative of the people and I must defend the interests of the citizens. I'm not gonna negotiate with you. You can lobby here at most, you can try to convince me of your views, but that's it." The former minister understood that at the time. Once again, the conclusion is that a minister will have easy access to a Member of Parliament, but do not worry, because we do not allow ourselves to be cast into our eyes by such figures. By the way, I later read in the newspaper that this former executive had played a crucial role on the file. I can assure you that he had absolutely nothing to do with it, except perhaps the twenty minutes he was allowed to spend with me in my Chamber to try to use his influence. I think that the role of lobbyists is generally overrated in The Hague. We talk a lot with sustainability lobbyists, both with NGOs and green parties lobbyists and with corporate lobbyists. Sometimes it is useful, sometimes it is not, but usually it moves around the core of what we are actually doing. That's my experience. The energy field has just been cited and a number of companies have been badly blacked out, but after three years of debate on Groningen we have reduced gas extraction by half and the entire parliament has played an important role in this. We stood up for the citizens in Groningen. A company that could naturally lobby for the importance of more sales, which I have never heard the company do to me, must obviously just turn in and the House of Representatives apparently has it in hand. So I think it's not that bad and that the alarmist stories I've heard so far are a bit exaggerated. I think it is difficult in the European Union. The story of Volkswagen that the SP spokesperson quoted, I found a poignant example of how we cannot manage to regulate our energy, which gives our children asthma and lung diseases to our citizens. I am very pleased that, through this cabinet, the Netherlands was the only Member State of the European Union to oppose the measure which allowed Volkswagen another delay in meeting the emission requirements it should have met and for which the fraud software was invented. This was the contribution of the Labour Party, unfortunately, because I am out of speaking time. Compliments to Magda Smink, because this debate in no way does justice to her very interesting and readable dissertation, which I can recommend to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u63	It was indeed a wonderful dissertation. I would like to talk to Mr Vos about Mr Merkies' motion, which proposes a lobbying paragraph, a legislative footprint. We read in the PvdA's own-initiative paper that it is in favour of this. Is the Labour Party going to support that proposal now, unlike two years ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u64	I have learned here in recent years that it is kind of a hobby to table dozens of motions per debate. If I say anything, a motion will then be tabled by the opposition. It is usually formulated differently than I said it myself. Then I see myself forced to vote against it. Then I read back in the newspaper that I voted against my own words and that I am a spin-ass. I understand that, because it's part of politics, but I don't think it's really right to do the work we're doing here. If you have any suggestions, I will study them seriously. You also know our proposals. We must try to get out and actually do something for the Netherlands, but with word games or 'then that motion, then that story and now this', I do not think we are achieving much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u65	It is clear that you see, as I say through the chairman, that the PvdA is turning around. That is an observation. This is what I'm talking about. I read the operative part: 'calls on the government to make the addition of a legislative footprint to legislative proposals legally'. That is just what the De Wit Committee proposed and for which there was broad support in the Chamber. That has been the case for a long time, but we still haven't legally anchored it. Would you just confess to color and not dive away? Just say: that is a good proposal, we support it and we will not let the VVD give us ringeliers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u66	My party has proposed that a separate lobby section should be included in legislative proposals by default. Indeed, the Netherlands gets a legislative footprint. In this proposal, we have also made it quite neatly clear that the De Wit Committee has already proposed that extra-parliamentary influence and lobbying activities should be better understood, with a footnote. That was footnote number 9. Unlike you, we show what we have done. You can read that back in the own-initiative paper. We will, of course, try in due course, if possible, to raise this initiative paper to law. We hope to be able to count on your vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u67	It's pretty, though. Now it says in the initiative paper of the Labour Party that the PvdA does not want legislation. If we all agree that this lobby paragraph would be a good thing, why not just anchor it legally? The Labour Party could have helped to settle that already in 2014. Why don't you just say, okay, that's a good proposal, that's what we just support, that's what we're gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u68	This is a repeat of moves. I've already given the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u69	Mr Vos, you are running away, but Mr Van Gerven wants to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u70	Yes, Mr Vos is not in the mood and I understand that, because this is bad for him. I would like another appreciation from Mr Vos of the statements made by Minister Dijsselbloem that it would be very good if there were a cooling-off period for directors, for example if they were Minister of Finance, before they took up office in the banking sector. Does Mr Vos agree with that view of Minister Dijsselbloem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u71	I'd almost say you're doing it again. Paragraph 6 of our own-initiative paper states: "Strengthening policy for governments." I won't read it because I think it will be understood. That's exactly what you just said. Mr Dijsselbloem is also a member of the Labour Party, irrespective of the fact that he is a minister in the cabinet and has a separate responsibility in it. I am therefore not surprised that he has spoken in this Chamber of the same spirit. Thank you for referring to him by reference to the source.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u72	Finally, Mr Van Gerven. Mr. Fox, hold it right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u73	This isn't very polite.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u74	Don't run away until the debate is really done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u75	Is it yes or no, Mr. Fox? Just say yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u76	Yeah, no. I have no idea what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u77	I don't think we're getting anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u78	That's why nobody understands anything about the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u79	Thank you, Mr Vos. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder. I hear kids laughing in the public gallery. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u80	Mr. Chairman. Let me be very clear right now. The CDA believes that there is nothing wrong with corporate lobbies in principle. The reality is that influence is taking place. We don't operate in a vacuum. I listen to residents, businesses, fellow governments, NGOs and other organisations. I sincerely hope that all my colleagues here will do so. Influence from society is good for our government policy and therefore for our society as well. I also have reasonable confidence in the quality and independence of the Dutch civil service. This fourth power of our country operates better than in most other countries, and where it does not, it often depends on ourselves or on all the demands we make. This does not mean that all parts of the ministries always function equally well. For example, the budgeting of the Dutch Food and War Authority, part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, has been a focus of attention for years. We must therefore continue to work on improvements. In policy and legislative processes, we have deliberately chosen opportunities for participation. Often, legislation is first submitted for consultation. Residents and businesses will not always see the point of this and they will not all have the time to make a direct contribution to the public debate. As representatives of the people, and therefore as civil servants, we must be alert to the role of the institutional players in particular, as Mrs Smink's investigation also points out. This concerns the preferences of established companies, for example to bring legislation into line with a particular technology, or nature organisations, in order to achieve more nature. My general question to the Minister is therefore whether the Ministry is sufficiently capable of weighing these institutional interests properly. How does that work in the policy definition? For certain sectors, we have established strict rules on lobbying and institutional players, such as the pharmaceutical and tobacco industries. In order not to restrict access to politics, the CDA believes that we should not impose rules on lobbying and influence on the other policy areas. We must be an open democracy with sober politicians, who take their responsibility to live up to the balance of interests within the frameworks that their party has given to the start of the new period. In supporting innovation, we need to ensure that new players can benefit from top sector policies. Does the Minister think that there is sufficient attention to this? How is that made possible and secured? A lot of research is being done into the influence of companies. This is a good thing, because in addition to companies, environmental and nature organisations have also been given their institutional role in our system and their influence is great. Sometimes it breaks, like with the energy agreement. In particular, the input of residents from the bottom up is sometimes forgotten. The CDA considers this to be a bad thing and welcomes the energy dialogue launched by the Minister. We can only live up to the energy transition if everyone is involved. Is there sufficient consideration for this in the policy definition? According to the CDA, closing everything is not a solution. It takes the responsibility away from people, and it's gonna be ticking lists instead. We call on our people's representatives and our officials to respect the trust they have gained in order to do the work for our society. This should serve the public interest. That's what the CDA stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u81	Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested after the publication of the dissertation of innovation scientist Magda Smink, which stated that policy plans are driven by the interests of the established order. Smaller players with less influence and fewer entrances to ministries are hardly heard. The Labour Party and the SP both thought it was a good report, but then they went to each other as a kindergarten. That does not seem to me to do justice to this good report, so let's look at the content and ask ourselves what the House of Representatives can do with it. Everyone, of course, has the right to stand up for his interests and decides how he organises them. In fact, it is very important for ministries, politicians and politicians to know what is going on outside of the small cheese stall in The Hague. Lobbyists come in all shapes, sizes and colors. We always automatically think of large companies, such as Shell and ING, trade unions and environmental organisations. However, there are also small entrepreneurs, residents' associations or parents who are concerned about the future and education of their children. They are also knocking on the door of ministries and politics. D66 considers it important that we take all these views, interests, concerns and opinions to our attention when making policies for all Dutch people and then weigh them all as carefully as possible and translate them into political choices. Whether we make up for that, the electorate then takes the politicians back into account. When questions are asked to me about the influence of lobbyists, I always say: politicians are not representatives of interests, but of interests. The dissertation shows that in the stages leading up to the debate in the Chamber, there is much to improve in policy preparation and in the drafting of laws. This is also how innovative and new players should be heard. The fact that they shout less loudly or find their way to ministries less easily does not mean that their point is less good or less important. The government still takes too much of the established order as its starting point. Does the Minister recognise the image outlined in the dissertation? How is he going to ensure that smaller, newer organisations are given an early place in policy development? Let us start with the top sectors policy. That might be the example of the establishment. One of the recommendations in the dissertation is that the government should develop a vision of the energy transition, independent of established organisations, with ideas from new, less influential players. Is the Minister taking that recommendation? It is necessary to have a clear understanding of how input from companies, organisations and other stakeholders has been processed and weighed. Who was spoken to at what stage? What views have been received? Who financed research that is the basis of policy? Transparency is crucial in these matters. D66 has therefore already made a number of proposals with GroenLinks in the initiative law open government. This is how it must be made clear to those who have spoken, including in the House of Representatives. Is the Minister prepared to have this transparency implemented in future and is he also putting it on the table in the Council of Ministers? The dissertation cites a number of cases in which research was funded and influenced by industry. Mr Van Gerven also mentioned this in his special contribution. The deposit file later even showed that a top official influenced the results of a scientific investigation, which is unacceptable. It is more common for reports and investigations to be sent to the Chamber, such as reports from the Planning Office for the Environment, from inspections and from scientific institutions. This often happens under the guise of: we want to send it with the policy response. However, this often leads to the possibility and perhaps also the suspicion that these reports and investigations are still affected along the way. Can the Minister therefore promise that reports will now be sent directly to the Chamber, that they will be clearly stated by whom the research has been funded and that researchers carrying out research on behalf of the Empire will be able to report abuses, possibly through a whistle-blower scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u82	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Smink's doctoral thesis is very impressive: established organisations are highly skilled in the framing of interests. This applies to energy giants, multinationals, SMEs, industry associations, the VNG, employers' organisations, trade unions, NGOs, asylum and refugee clubs, Wakker Dier and the Wadden Association. As a Member of Parliament, I am being lobbied every day: for this debate only one position paper, but normally dozens. I appreciate that information. In this way I get information from many points of view, which helps me to take a stand. A general principle of good governance is that you take into account the legitimate interests of stakeholders. The answer to the question as to how a Member of Parliament is most effective will be different for all 150 Members of Parliament. In the end, this means that there is a very great responsibility for every politician and political party to weigh interests, to listen to everyone and to justify in the political debate why what position is being taken. Any Member of Parliament who otherwise suggests or very toughly describes his office as a lobby-free zone is hypocritical and unbelievable. You may ask yourself whether such a politician really allows all interests to be taken into account or just those interests that best suit him or her. Not only established organisations are highly skilled in the framing of interests. Political parties can also set up a frame and this time burn the lobby work in the Chamber to the ground in the knowledge that the public loves the bash of multinationals and lobbyists; it is so wonderfully politically correct. I am quite prepared to exchange the word 'lobby' for 'protection of interests'. It will not change my generally positive-critical attitude towards those who represent interests. This is a personal political-moral compass. I will also take a sweater from the Wadden Society if I'm on a work visit and just happened to get cold during a walk on the beach. And I'll also accept a meal when I'm invited to a company presentation in the evenings. I am genuinely tired of the hypocritical way in which some Members of Parliament disqualify themselves in the media when it comes to influence. Literally adopting texts in motions, allowing NGOs to co-write in own-initiative papers; it is more common than openly discussed by people who are most opposed to influence in public. That leaves Mrs. Smink's dissertation. The Minister must in the formation of policies and laws the farmer must gather ideas from less influential players. I agree with her. She concludes that this is not done. The Minister has now rejected this in response to earlier questions from the Labour Party. The question that remains unanswered in Mrs Smink's dissertation is what the role of politics is in her controlling task, the general principle of good governance. Where legislation is made or subsidies are distributed, the influence almost always comes first from the Ministry, through the executive and eventually to the Chamber. For example, on any Tuesday after a powerful lobby, the Chamber may vote for a motion dissuade by the Minister to grant a grant to the Oerol festival and the theatre festival Boulevard in Den Bosch has checked without a lobby. At that time there is no indignation in the Chamber and no politically correct finger, but probably an invitation to come and see Oerol from behind the scenes in 2016. I don't have a single question for the Minister. As far as I am concerned, his previous written answers were crystal clear: the door in the Dutch polder is open to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u83	The Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u84	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by endorsing the comments made by the last spokesperson, Mr Van Veen. He has no questions to me, but he emphasized at the beginning of his input that everyone has their own individual responsibility. That's exactly how it is. The Netherlands has a reliable and honest government. I know that's true. I've been through it in many different ways for many years. The Netherlands has a reliable and honest government. This is to a large extent due to the representatives of the people, the directors and the officials. We are on the list with our government and society of 200 countries with the least corruption at the top five, or something in the spirit. Anyone can contribute to this individually. A lot of people do that, too. You contribute by taking individual responsibility, by continuing to take that responsibility and by improving it if possible. In order for those elected representatives, administrators and officials to continue to bear their own responsibilities and handle them properly, it is necessary for them to have a sense of responsibility, that they should address each other, for example in a political group or in the context of a political party, that they should take care of each other, that they should have the right institution to be a representative of the people in our country and that their environment should be transparent. People's representatives, directors and officials have the opportunity to organise their environment in a transparent manner. It's good to do that. This in turn contributes to the maintenance of such things, such as integrity and reliability. I've already mentioned each other on business. It is also necessary to monitor the places where that can help. Such monitoring should also lead to measures if necessary. I also think that a debate such as today is useful, because we need to think about this together. We must not think that the good culture we have here and the good position we have in the world will always remain that way. Things aren't always going well, either. Sometimes things go wrong in all kinds of places. You have to recognize that and expose it. That's what you need to talk to each other about. Then you have to see how to prevent it from happening again. There is a very big difference between lobbyists and those who have to take decisions in the public sphere, in the political sphere, in the public sphere. That starts with the officials. They also make all kinds of decisions in practice. They will then be submitted to a driver. He'll make up his mind. It's gonna be here in the people's office. Decisions are being taken there again. It is very important that those who take decisions realise that, unlike lobbyists, they are responsible for the public interest. Lobbyists are fine with me, but they're people who stand up for a stake. Let them come. Listen to them. Be able to recognize that it is a partial interest. Make sure that you also get a picture of other sub-interests and see if you ultimately think something should happen, how it can be done efficiently and effectively and who should bear the costs for it. That is again the consideration of the general interest. This is crucial to the function; if you are working in the public sphere, then you must be able to do so. Then you should think that's normal. Then you should also find it normal that you signal it if it goes wrong somewhere or threatens to go wrong. You have to make that negotiable, one-on-one, in your group, in your political party or in the organization in which you are responsible. There are a number of places where agreements are made about this. In the case of the Defense Department, in view of the situation there, the agreement has been made that former executives will not be admitted to the Ministry until after two years as a lobbyist. At my own Ministry of Economic Affairs we have a code of conduct integrity, which applies to all of us. Agreements have also been made in the Council of Ministers. While you're a ruler, you're not gonna spread your bed for the period after that. You're not gonna have any conversations about a post after that without the Prime Minister knowing about it. In different places in the public sphere, within the group, in the ministry, within a political party and within the Council of Ministers, you can agree on how to maintain and develop integrity and reliability. It is very good that people's representatives, officials and directors are open to outside and lobbyists. Nor is it the case in practice that the large organisations are heard and exert influence, and that the smaller organisations are not in the picture. That's not the attitude I sense with MPs. I do not sense that attitude in my colleagues either. I don't have that attitude myself. I don't see that attitude in the civil servants either. That's not Dutch culture. I also very much disagree with Mr Wassenberg, who was very negative about this. He said: the government has no vision, is lazy and lets the big companies prescribe things. I wonder how he'd dare say such a thing. If you know how the Dutch government works, you also know that it really isn't that way. This is not the case with the civil servants, it is not the case with the executives and it is not the case here, in the House of Representatives. Of course there is a vision. How can you say that there is no energy vision, as one of the spokesmen said. Of course, there is a vision of energy. We wrote it down. We have not only cut it politically but also provided social support. We have targets for 2020 and 2023. We've done an analysis for the period 2023-2050. We enter into this dialogue with everyone, and then we draw up a policy agenda for this. That's the vision that's being developed from the government. We listen to a lot of others, but ultimately we take our own responsibility. Officials provide the preliminary work, but the directors are responsible for the fact that in the end there is a good proposal in the Council of Ministers, which then goes from the Council of Ministers to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u85	Looks like the minister's referring to my input. Maybe he didn't quite understand what I was saying or he didn't quite get my question. So I'll repeat it. It now seems as if I would dare say that this minister has no vision for energy. The idea alone! I asked if the Minister was prepared to accept a recommendation from the dissertation, namely that the government should develop a vision of energy transition that is independent of established organisations, but with ideas from new, less influential organisations. That's what I meant by the vision of energy transition. Does the Minister accept that recommendation from the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u86	Of course, this is done independently of large companies and large bodies. I don't want to depend on anyone. The Council of Ministers does not want that, the groups do not want that, the officials do not want that. But we also want to listen to big organisations. I don't think it's wrong at all to listen to a very large energy company. In order to develop policy, I think it is important that officials in a ministry look at who is important and where they can get information to come up with good proposals. They must do so actively; it is also being promoted more strongly. They are rewarded and driven to actively build and maintain their networks. They need to ensure that they get the relevant information across society. Here's what's on top of that. Before a proposal that has been prepared by the government goes to the Council of Ministers, it is first posted on the Internet. Anyone can respond to that. There are therefore two stages to involve smaller speakers. It is only after these two stages that the proposal comes to the Council of Ministers. It passes through the ACM, Actal, the Council of State, the Council of Ministers, and then through the Second and Upper Chambers. That's a very careful process, with a lot of checks-and-balances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u87	I am a little concerned that this answer from the Minister once again has a very high 'we are doing it all very well' level. Today we are debating a doctoral thesis of someone who, on the basis of thorough research, has found that there are a number of improvements to be made in the way ministries handle signals from outside. One of the most important findings of the report is that you must ensure that you give the existing parties that have already organised their lobby relatively more influence than new parties that are still trying to find their way. Does the Minister agree that this is a real danger, for example in energy policy and top sectors? Is he willing to look into that in the future? Or does he say: no, it's perfect already, everything is fine; there's no real danger, so we're not doing anything with that dissertation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u88	We're not doing everything right. There's definitely danger. The recommendations are also very useful. If you don't have that attitude, you can't maintain your reliability and integrity. Of course, all kinds of governments, all kinds of people in different positions throughout the country are constantly working on all kinds of topics. Of course things go wrong there. It is very good that this is being denounced in the parliament. It's also fine if it comes up in a thesis. We need to look very carefully at what we can learn from that in order to do even better next time. It is absolutely not perfect and will never be perfect, but we are committed to constantly striving for it. Mr Verhoeven gave an example of the top sectors. It is not the case that the policy is determined by the big companies. That is absolutely not true. We decide the policy ourselves, but in order for the policy to be effective, for our companies to operate as effectively as possible on the world market and to help achieve as much prosperity and employment as possible in the Netherlands, we want to work together with business and the knowledge institutions. That is what we do in the top sectors. We understand very well that these small businesses need extra attention. That is why there is a permanent SME in every direction of the top sectors. In addition, 47% of all the money that the government in the Netherlands brings to innovation goes to SMEs, while SMEs only do 41% of the innovation. It is not, therefore, the case that large companies are balancing out on this point. Moreover, "large companies" is not a dirty term. In the Netherlands, we have very well-functioning large companies that act very responsibly, also vis-à-vis the government. That's the way it should be. The companies that do this less well should take those other companies as an example. I think that people's representatives, directors and officials are very approachable and willing to listen. I also see this in the way in which we are currently organising legislation. Legislation is primarily intended to make room for the future in a responsible way and is often established in an interactive process. At a very early stage, interaction is being organised with those for whom this legislation is important. After that, the internet consultation goes over that. Then there will be the advice of the ACM and Actal. I have also mentioned the Council of State. Then the whole legislative process is still going to play. I think we have organised this in a good way. Of course things go wrong. They are rightly mentioned in the dissertation. I think that, especially when it comes to reports, it usually, almost always, goes well, but it sometimes goes wrong. Where does it go wrong? It's gonna go wrong if you try to influence investigators. I do not think I should influence civil servants as a ruler. Officials communicate with me and I communicate with them. We listen to each other, but in the end an official makes a proposal and I make a decision. If I deviate from the official advice, I'll explain it to the employee. I'm never allowed to say to that employee, "I want to make up my mind," and you have to advise me. The same applies to the official towards the researchers. You should never tell an investigator what to conclude. There's no point in an investigation like that. You ask someone to do an investigation because you think he has expertise. That person then comes up with his research results and the official then looks at what can be done with them in policy preparation. Partly because of that, you come up with proposals, but you never influence an investigation like that. If you do, it's not good. What is allowed is that such a researcher talks to that official and hears what is going on, what is important and what the official thinks needs attention. The researcher can orient himself widely and does not need to avoid the official, but everyone must continue to bear his own responsibility and see his own role well. That certainly applies to the official. That's an important part of official craftsmanship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u89	These seem to me to be excellent words on this point from our Minister. How does the Minister look at the deposit file? In any case, we have heard very clearly from the media that there has been an official sitting around the table with others about the preparation of a report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u90	I am not speaking on a subject that another driver is responsible for. I think we should always answer to the Chamber about what happened. The Chamber may have an opinion on that. If we also come to the conclusion that things are not going well, we are bound to improve it ourselves. Let me say something about this in general terms. As a civil servant, I don't think you should want to send in an investigative report. I also think it rarely happens, and if it does, it's wrong. The investigation report will have no value to me. A reasonable provision of information, the way I just indicated, is just fine, but if you send on the report and the result of that, you're not doing it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u91	We agree on that point. Does the Minister also agree with the proposal of the SP and D66 to send reports, if they are produced by the Ministry, directly and directly to the House of Representatives as soon as they are finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u92	No, I disagree, because I do not think that the House of Representatives should sit in our seats. We're the day-to-day board. Room's checking us out. The Chamber makes the budgets available. However, the cabinet is the day-to-day administration. In order to define the policy and to make legislative proposals to the Chamber, a lot of official work needs to be done. There's also pre-work that people on the outside do. I'm getting reports that I don't think are relevant to the Chamber. I'll keep it at the Ministry. I also receive reports which, in my opinion, are very urgent for the Chamber. They're going to the Chamber very early. I am getting reports on which, in my opinion, a good cabinet response should first be given. I'll send it to the Chamber with a cabinet response. I'm also getting reports that I'm letting be part of a legislative process. They'll go to the Chamber on that occasion. It is my responsibility to make the right decisions. Sending all the reports to the Chamber without blinking, I invite the Chamber to sit on my chair. That wouldn't be good, because if the room is sitting in my chair, she can't control me. She can't control herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u94	Following these general comments, I will address the questions of the spokesmen who need to be answered separately. Mr Van Gerven stressed the importance of checks-and-balances. I very much agree with him on that. He said there was pressure, including on civil servants, from larger companies. I don't think that's possible. If an official experiences this pressure, he can go straight to his supervisor or the executive. Then he'll be protected. I don't think big companies are stupid enough to do that. In cases where this is the case, we must all be aware of this and take the necessary measures. Mr Van Gerven said that any appearance of conflict of interest must be avoided. I agree with him. We should not exaggerate that, but conflict of interest should not be allowed. If there's a conflict of interest, that's not good either. We must be aware of this in our work and try to avoid it as much as possible. Doing that is really an important part of our work. There has been talk of rulers and lobbyists. I don't think you can be a good ruler if you don't think about what you're gonna do as a ruler after your period. Even after the period in which you have been a ruler, you must behave in accordance with the dignity of your office. It's a special office you're called to. In a country of 17 million people, you can take responsibility for the common good. You're being controlled by the House of Representatives. That's an honor in itself. Once you've been awarded that honor, you'll have to behave accordingly, I think. The same applies to representatives of the people. They too must act as representatives of the people after their period. It is quite possible that you will find another job afterwards and that the job is in line with your skills on the basis of which you may have entered the Chamber; you have continued with that expertise in the Chamber and then you continue with it. But you have to do that job in such a way that you don't mix things up and have to deal with an appearance of conflict of interest. That's everyone's own responsibility. A lot of people do that very well. Is there anyone who doesn't do that right? Mr Vos mentioned an example. I have also experienced examples myself. We all know examples. So let us just establish that, talk to each other about it, talk about it in the group and here in the Chamber, and make sure that this sort of thing does not happen anymore. Mr Van Gerven spoke about ensuring transparency of legislative processes. I believe that the legislative processes in the Netherlands are exceptionally transparent. I'm proud to be able to contribute to that. My colleagues and I are also very willing to continue to do so. In legislative processes, you start to justify why you think there should be a law at all. You submit that to Parliament, in the form of a letter or a note, and you talk to Parliament about it. Then you're going to do it in a transparent way. You're gonna get everyone involved. You will be advised by Actal and by the Council of State and then the proposal will come to the Lower House. I think we have organised this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u95	In the meantime, have you answered all of Mr Van Gerven's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u96	Mr Van Gerven has asked how I want to deal with the jobs carousel. I don't know about a job carousel. I see, however, that people from civil service become leaders or people's representatives. I also see people's representatives going back to the administration. I think that this kind of thing is possible, as long as you use your own common sense, you are aware of your own individual responsibility and you also behave to the dignity of your office. Your responsibility has been granted and entrusted and you must behave to it during your period as a People's Representative or Governor, but also after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u97	The minister gave examples of someone changing jobs, but especially within the public sector. I have already indicated that I believe that everyone who has been elected, for example in the Chamber, should in principle serve their period. In some cases, I can have some understanding, but only in the public sector. The Minister has already said something about it, but is there now a kind of code of conduct on paper to which top officials are entitled, because of course it is a question of certain levels of government and should be kept? Is something like that on paper somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u98	At the beginning of a cabinet period, directors make agreements with each other. I have just indicated what these appointments are for directors. Officials are subject to the provisions laid down in the national civil servants' regulations. Certain sections of the public administration are subject to other provisions, which are specific to the situation there. For example, I have already mentioned the code of conduct that applies to Economic Affairs and the agreements made with Defence. That is quite the case. I think that Mr Van Gerven is right to focus on the transition from government to business, and that is what he should continue to do. It doesn't happen that much. In cases where it does happen, not only the person himself has a responsibility, but also the political party to which he belongs, the Chamber, the civil service and the executives. If someone from the government goes to business, it may be a situation that needs extra attention. That extra attention must therefore be given to ensuring that things do not go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u99	I understand from the Minister that when it comes to top officials, it varies between ministries and that it is discussed. Would it not be a good idea to come up with some sort of uniform code of conduct, both for administrators and for senior officials, to clarify what we all consider acceptable? This code of conduct should really focus on people who first work for the government and then for a company with an individual interest, and try to get things done in the position of lobbyist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u100	I don't think that's necessary. If there is a structural problem, you have to adapt it that way. In my opinion, there are no more than occasional serious problems in the Netherlands. As I have described a few times, the way in which we have organised it here is sufficient to bring these incidents to light and to take appropriate action against them. We also have the Lower House for this, as well as the political parties, the political groups and the Council of Ministers. In the ministries there are internal checks-and-balances. I think we've organized this really well. If the environment as a whole is able to solve these occasional problems, you should not want to come up with a general code of conduct. The Chamber called me here, so can I give an example from my own ministry? When we make legislation, we ensure that both legislative lawyers and policy makers deal with the issues from different angles. That is how we organized the checks-and-balances internally, among the officials. Actually, that is also the picture of the entire Dutch government. And again: if it goes wrong, the environment is such that it is fixed and corrected. There is also an important role for the press and for researchers, such as those who have done the research that has just been cited. That all adds to the fact that we can keep it the way it is. I was really a little shocked by what Mr Wassenberg said about the government: that it has no vision, is lazy and lets companies whisper it. I really think it's below the level of the Animal Party to paint such a caricature of the government. He asked if I see that the big and secret influence of companies is a problem. I've never seen sneaking corporate influence before. I would like to add something to that. I note that small companies are more active and less reluctant towards directors than large companies. So I think it's the other way around. And I don't find attempts to exert influence secretly; that's what I think is just standing up for a partial interest. It's okay. Mrs Klever mentioned amounts. I have already dealt with her amounts a number of times, so let us not repeat them. She asked me for a balanced policy. I believe that there is a very balanced policy. Mr Vos said that it was not bad in the Netherlands, but not in Brussels. I am not sufficiently expert to be able to see exactly how everything is going in Brussels, but I think it would be wise for the European Parliament in Brussels and the representatives of the people in the Netherlands to be aware of this. You can see that there are important regulations in Brussels for the whole of Europe. You can see that large companies in particular, I say to Mr Vos, have set up large lobby organisations there and are very capable of putting forward their shared interests. It is therefore up to the officials and the representatives of the people there to ensure that all other interests also come forward in the same way and that proper and objective consideration is made. Whether that doesn't go well in Brussels, I don't know. I think the European Parliament is as good as the Dutch Parliament, and I do not know as much about it as I think I do about the Dutch Parliament. Mrs Mulder has asked whether a ministry can properly weigh the interests and whether we have sufficient regard for the citizens. I think we are quite capable of weighing interests. In the ministries where I've worked, I saw that all the people, all the officials I've been dealing with, are really out to get a good picture of what's going on and want to weigh it up. That's their job; they want to do it right. I believe that there is a great deal of respect for citizens and, as far as this is not the case, that is being corrected here in the parliament, and it is a good thing that this is happening. Mr Verhoeven mentioned the dissertation. I've already gone into that. He also mentioned the top sectors and the reports that he felt should go directly to the Chamber. I have an opinion on that. Mr Van Veen started with something I ended with. He said: it is the responsibility of each individual; you have an individual responsibility and you have to live up to it. I think that we do this very well very often and that we should continue to do so. In those places where that doesn't happen, we have to help each other so that things get better in the future. In the end, we must be able to continue to achieve what has already been achieved, namely that there is an honest, reliable government in the Netherlands, which is committed to the interests of Dutch citizens and businesses. That's what it's supposed to be like in the future. I therefore see this debate with the Chamber as supporting that policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u101	Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office. I'll see who's gonna take advantage of that. Except for Mr Van Gerven, there is no need for a second term. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gerven. Speaking time is 1 minute 30 seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u102	Mr. Chairman. I put forward a number of motions to prevent excesses in lobbies and fraud investigations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that public-sector investigations should be above all appearances of influence;]] [[Whereas pressure exerted by officials impedes the independence of investigations;]] [[calls on the Government, in the course of its investigation, to ensure independence by prohibiting influence on the investigation by the State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research results and conclusions should be avoided in advance and their influence from ministries should be avoided;]] [[calls on the Government to direct, in principle, investigations commissioned by a ministry to the House of Representatives and to answer in cases where this would not be possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the current situation when legislation is drawn up, the involvement of lobbyists is assessed only on a voluntary basis;]] [[considers that transparency on the drafting of legislation is important for both the Lower House and the population;]] [[considers that transparency is enhanced by indicating who has had an impact on which parts of a legislative proposal;]] [[calls on the Government to legislate on the addition of a Legislative Footprint to legislative proposals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are sometimes too close links between officials and lobbyists through the "job carousel," where top officials or former representatives of the people and directors are given posts as lobbyists;]] [[Whereas any appearance of conflict of interest should be avoided;]] [[calls on the government to send a proposal to the House of Representatives to address this so-called "job carousel" by drawing up a code of conduct,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-227]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-228]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-229]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-230]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u103	Thank you for your leniency, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u104	We wait for the Minister to have the motions in his possession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u105	Madam President. In his first motion, Mr Van Gerven proposed to the Chamber that the government should be requested, in the course of investigations, by guaranteeing a ministry independence by prohibiting influence by the government. I have already said that a civil servant or a regiment does not do well when it tells a researcher what is to come out of that investigation or if he or she tries to influence that investigation in a way other than providing relevant information. Such an official, minister or secretary of state is doing it wrong. His environment must correct him in that. I'm sure there's a sense of this in the government. It is known that this is not the way to do it, and it is not the way to do it. If it is done, then it is wrong. That must come to light and we must act against it. Banning something that hardly occurs is not good. That is a false suggestion to our government and our administration. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u106	Mr Van Gerven, you can ask one question about the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u107	I don't understand. The Minister and I agree, but he does not see this motion as supporting policy. If necessary, he can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u108	If I am asked to ban officials from appearing drunk at work, I would point out that the officials do not come to work drunk. If a civil servant gets drunk at work, he's gonna be called to it and he's gonna get out or never do it again. That is actually the case here. It's gonna happen sometime, or it'll happen sometime. That is then wrong and then there must be action against it. Everyone in the government understands that. We are perfectly capable of dealing with this ourselves. There is no need for me to ban something that hardly occurs and which we know is not allowed to do. In his second motion, Mr Van Gerven asked the government to send the reports directly to the Chamber. I don't want to do that. That's not good. I have to see for myself what is relevant to the Chamber and, if so, when to send that information to the Chamber. Sometimes this can happen very quickly and sometimes it happens later. If reports go directly to the Chamber, the reports would go directly from the investigator to the Chamber. The investigator must send the report to the governor and he must proceed with it. At some point, the report should be able to be involved by the Chamber in the consideration of a policy proposal or a legislative proposal. At that time, the Chamber should have access to these reports. If the Minister does not do this well in the eyes of the Chamber, the Chamber will make it clear and the Minister will do well next time. This motion is completely superfluous. I'm gonna dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u109	It is very common for reports to remain in the Ministry because it is not convenient for the information to go directly to the Chamber. I understand the Minister's position. You can't send everything to the Chamber and the Chamber can't read everything either. It is very clear in which cases this is not possible. The Court must be informed immediately of important and essential reports. In some cases this happens, but in many cases it does not. I do not think this would benefit the control function of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u110	I think the Chamber is very keen on reports. The Chamber, a board member or an official does not want the Chamber to have relevant information available in good time. If there is a report of interest to the Chamber, it is unthinkable that it should remain in a drawer. You can't do that. If this happens occasionally, action must be taken against it. It's not the culture to do that kind of thing. The Chamber is well informed by the directors and all kinds of others and can assess whether reports come in time, whether a cabinet position is provided or not. It doesn't go wrong in this house. A statement that everything must go directly to the Chamber is not necessary at all. That's why I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 229 the government is asked to make a legal provision for a lobbying paragraph to be added to legislative proposals. I can't imagine. Suppose I run into someone at a reception and that person tells me something from a partial interest. Am I being lobbied? And suppose that person has another conversation with me afterwards, sends me a note, talks to officials about a subject or invites me to his company to come and listen to things. I don't know exactly how you could properly judge what lobbying is or isn't. If we were to say of everything that smells like lobbying, that it should be laid down by law and that it should be added to legislative proposals, we would make it unnecessarily difficult for ourselves. We then organise a bureaucracy and we create mistrust, which is not necessary. The motion in part No. Two hundred and twenty-nine, I'm guessing. In the motion in part No. 230 is the word "job carousel." For that reason alone, I advise against the motion. I deny there's a job carousel. Of course, there are people coming from the civil service into the parliament and, of course, people's representatives and ministers go back to the civil service. I myself once became a Member of Parliament after I was Minister, then I was a civil servant for two years and I worked under the responsibility of a Secretary of State and then I became Minister again. If you deal with that in a normal way, respect each other's responsibilities and behave properly, it's all possible. I don't want to see that as a job carousel. If we did that, we would disqualify ourselves unnecessarily. There must be action against incidents, but that is already happening. There is no need for a code of conduct. So I'm going to advise against this motion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-11.u111	We have come to the end of this debate. We shall vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday 1 March.
