ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr President, colleagues and Secretary of State. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Media Act. This Media Act has a history, especially when it comes to television, one of the carriers of the media system. We're talking about a law that came a long time ago. In fact, we've known TV as a medium since 1951. I believe it was in October 1951 that the then Secretary of State, Joseph Cals, opened the first TV studio in Bussum. The images were still in black and white and sporadically. There weren't many transmissions. If you compare that to now, a lot has changed. Besides the public channels, we've got a lot of commercial channels. Then it made sense that watching the TV, if you could afford a TV, didn't cost anything. Now you've got pay stations, too. Then you had an analogue, limited offer, but now you have a digital, almost unlimited offer. I can go on like this for a while. Much has changed in that area, but what has remained is a public broadcasting system, a public system, not only in the Netherlands, but actually in almost all countries. Moreover, this public system is characterised by journalistic independence, if it is right. Let me say this in particular, because unfortunately there are countries where it is less well organised when we look at public service broadcasting, public service. In the past, the public order was also paid out of watch and listen money. That was abolished at the beginning of this century. Then we chose to pay directly from the government's finances. With the fiscalisation of the licence fee, I would like to say again for those who have forgotten it, something has changed. This has made it possible for broadcasting budgets to be dealt with à la minute as well. That was also the reason why many, unfortunately not a majority, were opposed to fiscalisation at the time. It's been about 12, 13 years now. The public order in the Netherlands is unique, because of many aspects. I mention, among other things, the fact that we have known associations here for many decades, associations that have been able to create programmes, radio and TV programmes, but also to provide other media services. At first, the associations we knew, and we still know some of them, were organized through the traditional columns. That system, the organization through the columns, has slowly but surely changed. It's been dynamic. Now it is mainly about broadcasting organizations with a supporter and especially with a mission and its own recognizable programme offer. Together, these associations have about 3.5 million members. I'll get back to you on that. This amendment to the Media Act generally provides less room for traditional broadcasters and, for example, the NOS, which is not a member organisation, but is specifically responsible for issues such as sports and current events. The change of law offers more room for the NPO, as a kind of cluster or organisation that towers above the broadcasters. The CDA Group notes that the NPO is now given much more space and more budget and is therefore going to do more. That's a deliberate choice by the Secretary of State. At least that's what you read in the legislative amendment that's been submitted to this Chamber. The CDA is generally critical of it. The CDA is critical not only of that fact, but also of the fact that programmes can be examined in advance and of the way in which many sections are appointed in Hilversum. We were not alone in the questions we have asked over the past few weeks and months. These questions had also been raised by others. As far as we are concerned, the amendment of the law goes too far here and there. Even the conflict with the Constitution has been mentioned in that context. The amendment of the law is in line with the Constitution, with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and with what we have laid down in our own laws and regulations. That not only we as the CDA Group, but also other groups are critical, has been shown more than once in recent months. This also turned out to be the case on 8 December, when a round table was organised here with numerous experts. So before us is not a marginal but a fundamental change in the system. That change raises questions. The policy will be even less of the broadcasters and it will be less of the bottom line. It's more like it's coming from above. The key question is: why is this necessary? We have asked this question once again, also in the written round. What problem do we actually solve with this change of law? Or is there no problem at all that we can be guaranteed by this amendment of the law? Is it a political wish? It's okay. A political wish may be fulfilled in this way. However, we have major reservations about this and I will try to deal with a few specific aspects later. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the Secretary of State says that public service broadcasting should be "future-proof" in particular. Who doesn't want that? I said that the first television broadcasts took place over 60 years ago. Of course, we also believe that in a changing environment and a changing world, we should always look at how the public system can move as strongly into the future as possible. There must be an answer to this question of future stability. However, the Secretary of State wants public service broadcasting to change to be "relevant" in particular, as he says. But what is "relevant"? Does that mean you have to reach all the target groups? Does that mean you want to achieve as high a ratings as possible? Does that mean that you have everyone present and make programs for you? Does that mean, for example, that you should be able to offer entertainment? As far as we are concerned, this question has not been sufficiently answered. Public service broadcasting is important in the eyes of the CDA Group. I've already indicated that the network is everyone's and everyone's. The fact that broadcasting is paid out of public funds underlines this. The Secretary of State rightly points out that new developments need to be addressed. All broadcasters in the Hilversumse must be able to respond to this. Those broadcasters want that, too. It is not for nothing that there are regular discussions about whether broadcasters should also do what seems to be mainly reserved for the press, newspapers and written media. Those discussions are there. It is quite clear that broadcasting must be future-proof and also respond to new developments. However, if broadcasters ask to be allowed to place programmes on, for example, YouTube or Netflix and the Media Commissioner agrees, it is of course the question why the NPO says that this cannot be done. Is that responding to new developments? Is that giving space to new developments? The Secretary of State states that he sees no contradiction in the present legislative amendment with Article 7 of the Constitution, with Article 10 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and with adjacent national laws and regulations. Practice learns differently. I have already indicated that this has been one of the serious points of criticism at many agencies in recent months. The Council of State is also concerned about whether this bill and these ambitions are not absolved here and there with the Constitution and with laws and regulations. That is precisely why the CDA Group asked the Secretary of State during the last round of questions whether it would not be an option for the country's attorney to take a look at this. The answer to that was that it wouldn't be necessary. If the country's attorney looked at it, the results of that investigation could of course be shared with this Chamber in complete confidentiality. But why did we ask that question? That wasn't for nothing. Third parties have now threatened with procedures and claims. It is also our job to raise a warning. For this reason, we asked whether the country's lawyer could possibly look at the total number of changes. The Secretary of State states that public service broadcasting must be more distinctive. Of course, we agree. In fact, we believe that the individual broadcasters should be able to decide for themselves what the content of the programmes they come with. That is, by the way, one of the cores and the hard points of our own media legislation. The broadcasters are autonomous in this respect. However, the recent discussions on whether certain programmes do fit the channels have a strong tendency to quickly evoke the image that is being sent. Pre-checking programs simply means the following: if a program offered by a broadcaster does not like or like the person looking at it, it cannot be placed and broadcast. That is in essence contrary to what we have always argued here, in this house, in a long time ago and so far. That space and freedom must be there. That is one of the foundations of our system and one of the foundations of our legislation. In this context, I should just like to mention the discussion on entertainment. You can of course say that entertainment does not belong on public broadcasting and that this is caught by the commercials. But isn't that too easy? Can you say that anything that can be commercially broadcast doesn't have to be done by public service broadcasting? I repeat our position once again: public service broadcasting belongs to everyone and to everyone. In the discussion with this Chamber in the written reply and the further explanation, the Secretary of State offered less space in terms of entertainment than he offered in the House of Representatives. That's too bad. So we have a lot of questions about the influence of the NPO. That's what we're talking about. Members' organisations must be able to distinguish themselves by producing themselves. That too is one of the starting points of our media system. They have to be able to create programs of their own. This also appears to come under pressure again by cutting in and sliding budgets, for the umpteenth time. The Secretary of State says that, as far as he is concerned, it is the last time that this type of legislation is under discussion. Now it would be done. He added, however, finely: "in this concession period." How does that give certainty and clarity for the long term? Moreover, this prior supervision, which is illustrated by many examples from different broadcasting houses in Hilversum, is, in our view, a bridge too far, perhaps two or three bridges. I say this in the light of what I have just said: what can be done and what cannot be put in place? By the way, we also find the refusal of presenters, with the argument that they would not fit in the transmitter profile, absolutely impossible. Then we might as well delete Article 2.88 of the Media Act immediately. In short, here too the hand of legislation, translated through the NPO, can be clearly felt. The Secretary of State argues in his bill for more openness of the system, more pluralism and more competition. Of course, when it is formulated in this way, we agree wholeheartedly with that. No one can get a pin in there. But so far members are the best guarantee to guarantee pluralism. The Dutch order is unique in that sense. I already indicated that the broadcasters together have more than 3.5 million members. So I am not talking about the NTR and the NIS, which have specific tasks. The Secretary of State says that he does not consider these 3.5 million members sufficient and that they do not serve the whole of the Netherlands. Then I wonder: what more do we want? Are we going to look at our trade unions or the political parties in this way? I believe that even the smallest broadcaster has more members than all parties put together. So it's something if you dare say: 3.5 million members, it's nice that they're there, but I can't do that much with them. Consider that now as the basis of the desired pluralism and the best guarantee for that. There are, of course, examples from the recent past where a vote was taken at the time when a broadcaster put in place a programme or a programmer who did not like its own supporters. It has happened more than once that a program went off the tube again. That's the spirit. That's pluralism. You can't impose that from above, but it's organized from below. The Secretary of State says that not all target groups are reached, but nowhere is it guaranteed that his plans for strengthening the position of the NPO will ensure that those target groups are reached. And what are we talking about? It is said that we are talking about young people, about young people. I would like to point out that a recent study, I believe from the EBU, the European Broadcasting Union, shows that almost 90% of our young people are reached. That makes us the frontrunner in Europe. For other hard-to-reach target groups we have the NTR. What have we achieved on 1 January of this year? We've literally sent home a number of 39f broadcasters. Either they had to merge with a broadcasting organization, find shelter there, or they literally disappeared from the media scene. In short, I am actually curious what we are talking about. The openness of our order is unique. That is why we have been able to get new broadcasters with some frequency over the past year. MAX and BNN are the biggest new broadcasters. I believe they now have between 350,000 and 365,000 members. Then why is it said "it doesn't live" or "end of practice"? When the exclusivity of programme data was abolished, many predicted that it would have been done with the members of the broadcasters. We're seeing the opposite. On the contrary, there is an increase in the number of members. That's good. When it comes to the openness of the order, the Secretary of State is looking at something else. In particular, he looked at the possibility of using more external producers. If the use of external producers means openness of the order, then it can also be done through the regular broadcasters we now know in the order. Bringing in external producers through the NPO raises a number of questions. Professor Wijfjes pointed out here in the round table that it is better to do something about transparency and public accountability than to so-called independent interference. In other words, who controls the external parties? Who's supervising it? What are the backgrounds? Who's gonna influence it? That kind of question hasn't been answered one, two, three. More commonality and recognizability is also an ambition of the Secretary of State. This brings us to the relations in the system, as proposed. The Secretary of State believes that there should be full independence from, for example, the NPO's newly appointed Supervisory Board, as he said at the time. In the meantime, the Supervisory Board has been appointed. No one will have noticed that there has been some discussion about this. I do not go into all the names of the candidates circulating, but I am curious to see what the Secretary of State's opinion is on the harsh criticism that the previous President of the NPO expressed in December 2015, for his own goodbye, in the direction of the Secretary of State on Mr Bruins' intended appointment on 1 January. He had severe criticism, also of the incompatibility of functions. I haven't heard much of that. By the way, Professor Van Eijk was also very hard on this subject. A lot has been said about transparency and costs in the House of Representatives on the other side. The Court has been able to take note of the concession policy plan, which is actually a logical consequence of a number of steps taken. Both chambers have taken note of this. In any case, it raises the question of how far accountability will go. Are we going to have a discussion about the costs of every programme being broadcast? Surely it cannot be true that every programme, not here, but on the other side, can give rise to discussion because it looks at costs in particular? We are concerned about that, too. Speaking of costs, the Dutch order is relatively effective and efficiently organised. If we look at the total cost, we are cheaper in the Netherlands per household, per taxpayer than in the neighbouring countries, Belgium, England, Germany. That says a lot of things, of course. The question is whether this statement of proposals, as it now comes to us, can maintain the same effectiveness. We're in front of a duppie in the first grade, said Professor Girls in this house. I am, of course, the first to admit that it costs more than a dime, but I just want to say that the order is relatively cheap in relation to the countries around us. In that sense, I wonder whether the Secretary of State shares this view with us. I would like to make a few comments on the regional broadcasters. It is a pity that regional and national public service broadcasting were put on the table in one proposal to the Chamber. It is therefore difficult to make a cut. The impact on regional broadcasters is considerable. We have heard concerns from many broadcasters, and you know that the regional broadcasters, broadcasters from the provinces, who have chosen this Chamber together, are also close to the heart of these groups, at least this CDA group. We are pleased that the Secretary of State guarantees that at least one regional broadcaster will remain per province. Now this is the case in almost all provinces, except in South Holland, where I think there are two. Perhaps the Secretary of State can indicate what he means by "at least one per province." Of course, the main question is to what extent regional broadcasters can still show independence per province. Who's gonna talk about what and who's not gonna talk about what? Are the editors going about their own format and their own programs? Yeah, we'll all say that's sufficiently secure. However, in particular, the editorial boards of almost all regional broadcasters have given the attention of the Works Councils to the fact that, in the past, there will have to be some consideration at some point in order to distribute the facilities between broadcasters, to allow cameras to run at all and to allow microphones to do their job. Who decides what? Who's gonna be on the buttons? That is a point of discussion which has not yet been sufficiently clarified. This also applies to public-private cooperation at regional level. Several provinces have pointed this out. They are concerned that public-private cooperation will become difficult in the long term. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State the undertaking that that is absolutely not the case. We have not been able to read about how this cooperation should be guaranteed. We're curious how the Secretary of State sees that. Would it not also be an idea, if he indicated that a regional broadcasting system would have to continue to exist per province, to grant a concession per province? So there is no longer a national concession for regional broadcasting, but a concession per province. Well, at least you'll keep a closer eye on the provinces. Finally, a word about the regional broadcasters as a whole. A substantial cut has been announced. Last week, the regional broadcasters indicated that they are not going to make it, that they are not going to make it, that they are not going to make it, and that the legislation is not in order. That's a very special reason, I'll say. The question to the Secretary of State is how it is handled. After all, it cannot be that in the region the channels will go black every now and then. What about the position and guarantees for regional broadcasting as a disaster channel? My final point is the regional broadcasting in my own province, Omroep Fryslân. You won't be surprised. We've talked to the Secretary of State about that before. He indicated in the Lower House that he would like to recognise the special position of this and that he would like to enter into consultation with the province. We are curious whether almost six months after the first commitment and four or five months after the debate in the House of Representatives there is a clear view of a more autonomous position of regional broadcasting in Friesland. This particular position is mainly motivated by the fact that Frisian is the second state language. That should also be clear to everyone here in this Chamber. What are the arrangements that would be made with the province? When can we expect more clarity about this? In summary. We have a lot of reservations about the legislative proposal, and we believe that there are many areas where the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights and its own national legislation are at stake. We believe that prior influence, the ex ante evaluation of programmes cannot be considered and that the area of broadcasting should be guaranteed. We do not find the way of the Secretary of State the best guarantee for pluralism and for making and keeping the public system fully future-proof, but the way that the broadcasters have indicated earlier and always been successful. We are looking forward to the reaction and commitments of the Secretary of State so that we can make a final assessment later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today, in this house, we are talking about making the public media service future-proof. Making it future-proof doesn't that say a lot? Apparently, the public media service is not future-proof at the moment. In fact, that is understandable, too, because today people still really need public service broadcasting, for example for their information? No, not anymore. I'd even say, "Happily not anymore." In today's digital world, people often come to their information in different ways and through different channels than by looking at the NOS Journal. Internet, online newspapers, social media, online providers, name them all. The fact is that the Dutch watch less and less linear television. Meanwhile, they spend 61% of their daily viewing time looking in other ways, through other channels. Six months earlier, that was 53%. The range and therefore the relevance of public service broadcasting are decreasing. The first question is whether this is really all so bad. Is that so problematic? Public service broadcasting is an outdated system and the amendment of the Media Act is in fact already obsolete. People no longer depend on public service broadcasting. They are no longer dependent on, for example, talk shows in which the latest news is mentioned. The time when people didn't leave the door on Saturday night and were stuck to the tube not to miss a second of the Showbizzquiz, that time too is over. Why does the Secretary of State want people to watch and listen to public service broadcasting when those same people indicate that they already have alternatives for a long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u4	I very much agree with what you have said, Mr Kops, because this is a very different time. But you're almost saying linear TV isn't like this time anymore. It is indeed not the time of Saturday night the Showbizzquiz, but nowadays we all watch on Saturday night Who is the Mol. Wouldn't that indicate that there might still be a role for linear TV?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u5	I'm not saying people don't watch television anymore. I say that people watch linear television less and less often. That's what I said. What awaits us with the amendment of the Media Act? The Secretary of State pretends to restrict pure entertainment. Entertainment is only allowed when it has an educational or informative character. So entertainment as a means and no longer as a goal. The PvdA recently objected to the alleged disappearance of entertainment. Yes, I'm sorry, Mr President, but I have to say that from a PvdA perspective, of course, that's understandable. For now imagine that certain programs, entertainment programs, for example, would disappear from the VARA. Programs in which practically daily PvdA coryphes may join us at the table to make their left-wing statement, in a desperate attempt to save something from this party. Imagine that the high entertainment content of the PvdA on television would be lost. All entertainment on a stick: in practice nothing is going to change. One takes an entertainment program, sticks a label with "educatief" or "information" and then it's all allowed. Cooking programmes, for example, will no longer be entertainment programmes, but educational programmes, from which people can learn how to cook healthyly and then have a healthy lifestyle. It all sounds fun, but it's just entertainment. Take, for example, the program De Kwis van de VARA. That's a government-funded PVV basing program pur sang. That too would no longer be an entertainment programme, but would be an informative, informative programme that brings the latest news and provides clarification. It all sounds nice, but that too remains just entertainment, though, what you call entertainment. That entertainment in public service broadcasting should only be allowed if it is educational or informative is certainly not reassuring for the PVV group, quite the contrary. The reality teaches us that the combination of public service broadcasting on the one hand and 'educational' and 'informational' on the other is a very unfortunate combination. The problem is that public service broadcasting is trying to teach citizens how to look at this world on a daily basis. Every day we try to impose a left-wing attitude on our citizens. I'll come back to the program De Kwis. I've already referred to it. Just a little example from the practice, that's so much fun. In that programme, i.e. with the VARA, with the public service broadcaster, one Niels van der Laan made a rap on 12 December last year. A rap that was about my group chairman, Mrs Faber. I would like to share this rap with the members. For the sake of clarity, let me say straight away that these are not my words; I am going to quote. And since in this house the use of the word "fake" can already be problematic, I will censor one word in that quote. The rap goes like this. "That k-Marjolein, with her provocation, that bitch is so small, what a cancer Nazi. I'd like to kill that bitch." Look, this is the VARA. Welcome to the public service. So this is the practice. I have a question for the Secretary of State. This quote, which I have just mentioned, is that entertainment, education or information? Can that be interpreted? And to everyone, all the citizens who are listening to this debate now, I say: look, you have paid for this; whether you like it or not, it doesn't matter; everyone is paying for this disgusting PVV basing. And to think that the VARA once had a slogan: your best friends are in the VARA. Yeah, yeah... No, no, there's all PvdA's in the VARA. Maybe that's the point: all PvdA's at the VARA and of course they are the best friends of one and a half men and a horse head who would vote for this party now. And then say that the public media service is not future-proof. No, you think it's crazy? PVV's are practically called "cancer Nazi," but in the meantime this party is on more than 40 seats in the polls. So we see again: public broadcasting and citizens, it is a world of difference. If the Secretary of State really wants to restrict entertainment, can he give a clear definition of entertainment? Where exactly is the dividing line between entertainment and education and information? Above all, let us not forget the question of why entertainment should still be included in public service broadcasting, which of course can also be offered by commercials. The practice shows that this is quite possible. Actually, it's already happening. In 2015, the public service broadcaster lost viewers and market share, while the market share of the commercial operators increased. Does the Secretary of State wish to stop this development? If so, how? And if so, why? Why should this development be stopped? Currently, Article 2.50 (2) of the Media Act states that the programme offer on the various general programme channels has a recognizable profile. This particular paragraph makes it possible to give guidance to public service broadcasting and programming, in order to ensure that public tasks are properly carried out. We almost forgot, but, yes, the network also has public tasks. It is a pity, therefore, that the proposal of the Secretary of State threatens to remove this particular Member from the law. Does that get a licence for the network to broadcast whatever it wants? Does that mean that the public tasks disappear even more into the background? Is it not wise, before we proceed with a change to the Media Act, to first evaluate how the law now functions in practice? What about the implementation of public tasks? For example, broadcasting must provide reliable news and meet high journalistic and professional quality standards. Is that happening now? A little while ago, for example, in Nieuwsuur, it was said that you have people who welcome refugees with open arms and you have people who want to stop them with the stretched right arm. In other words, anyone who does not receive refugees with open arms is a Nazi. Well, well, well, well, well. Nazi again. You'd think public service would have something to do with that. Then again the question of the reliable news provision and journalistic and professional quality requirements. If the Secretary of State is not going to answer that the public tasks are being carried out perfectly, to the point, why is paragraph 2 of Article 2.50 being removed from the Media Act? In other words, why are the rules not enforced but thrown overboard? The disappearance of the profiling actually creates a single profile and with the disappearance of the public tasks in the background only one task actually arises. That task is, of course, to deliver the left-wing message.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u6	I listen to colleague Kops with interest. He has mentioned a number of things that can be of great concern, especially when it comes to bashing parties. We must, of course, stay far from that. He indicates that there are a lot of concerns, including what is coming to us via public service broadcasting. He's right to ask a lot of questions. But does he also have any ideas about what should happen if we go to making the public media future-proof, in order to avoid this kind of thing? He's saying what's wrong or isn't going well, but does he have any ideas to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u7	We're talking about a change to the Media Act. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how this law is currently working. I don't think that's gonna happen enough. I've been talking about the public tasks. Are they being carried out sufficiently? What about pluralism in public service broadcasting? All these questions need to be answered before we change the Media Act. I quoted a few times; you heard me. With that, I indicated that the public service is a left-wing party. What about this pluralism? Another important question is whether the amendment to the Media Act will change anything about that. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u8	Yes, I understand what you're doing in your speech. You're mostly trying to analyze what's going on right now. But imagine that there might be some influence of your party on the future and future content of programs. Do you have any ideas and suggestions that we can share to help the Secretary of State to prevent what you have quoted and what we all abhor, sometimes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u9	Let us then begin by guaranteeing pluralism. That's step one. But I happen to see in my speech that I am about to tell you more about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u10	I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u11	I told you, Mr President, there is actually one profile and one public task, namely to deliver the left-wing message. The so-called "open" broadcasting system will not change that at all. In fact, it's only gonna get worse. NPO leader Rijxman recently said, I quote: once the new Media Act opens the broadcasting system, the first demand for external producers will be to pitch new programmes at the NPO that strengthen diversity on Dutch television. What does this mean, that the NPO wants more diversity? Rijxman wants more women and more non-Western immigrants on radio and television, since "The Netherlands in 2016 is a society full of cultures, classes, beliefs and backgrounds." We already know what the Minister of OCW thinks about this, because recently she went to the DJ team at the 2000 Summit, because it would be made up of white men of the same age. Of course, that's disgusting; you'd almost think there's something wrong with white men of the same age. Anyway, the minister meant more diversity and, of course, more multicultural hug. In other words, the future of public service broadcasting looks bleak. How does the Secretary of State view this? Is the change to the Media Act going to do anything about that? As I said, public service broadcasting has lost viewers and market share, while the market share of commercials has grown. How does the Secretary of State intend to turn the tide with the amendment of the Media Act and the plans of NPO leader Rijxman? We know public service broadcasting as a champion of multicultural society. Islam is fine, economic refugees are fine, and above all, let's not forget that Black Piet is a very big problem. Above all, public service broadcasting wants citizens to adopt this way of thinking. But, yeah, practice shows that it can't be done anymore. It doesn't work anymore, because I said it before: the PVV is in the polls at more than 40 seats and more than two thirds of the citizens want the borders to be closed. So this propaganda from public service broadcasting is no longer working. People don't buy it anymore. What is needed to make the public media service truly future-proof is a cultural change in Hilversum. The Hilversum ladies and gentlemen must learn to speak the language of the people, because the gap between citizens and Hilversum is greater than ever. The statements of NPO driver Rijxman show this and also show that there is little visibility for improvement. The world's weirdness is on the rise. Article 2.50 first paragraph of the current Media Act states that programme offerings are provided on at least three general television channels of the national public media service. However, this remains unchanged. I ask the Secretary of State why? Why choose to cut the number of broadcasters, but not the number of channels? Then the PVV has a suggestion. Let's put all that left-wing babbling on TV and all those PvdA-coryfees easily on one channel. All at one channel is so easy and so clear. Then people at least know which channel to avoid, so that they are not confronted unexpectedly and unwelcomely with certain types. And yes, of course, that's so easy to zap.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. The most important point that 50PLUS raises at the start of this debate is whether the proposal before us makes public service broadcasting future-proof, as the Secretary of State wishes us to believe on numerous occasions or otherwise. I, the undersigned, worked permanently for 38 years in the public service, and certainly not uncritically, and followed the creation of the first Broadcasting Act in the mid-1960s until the legislation today. During these 50 years, the broadcasters had to serve all viewers and listeners and provide a complete programme. In addition, there was a blue-orange wire that wanted to promote commercial broadcasting and reduce public broadcasting in all respects: in money, in number of networks and in what it wanted to broadcast. It graced the VVD that she never made a secret of these views and propagated her ideas in full. The VVD was in practice the enemy of public service broadcasting. It was also the reason that other parties always ensured that the media portfolio did not fall into the hands of this liberal party. At the formation of the second Rutte cabinet in 2012, the absence of a majority government in the First Chamber was not the only looming error. For the first time, the media portfolio came into VVD hands. Many initiates wondered if the coalition partner, the Labour Party, would allow the VVD to break down the order and claim key positions for itself. It did indeed happen as I will demonstrate on the basis of the subjects of entertainment, broad audience, young people, football, grab government and appointments. "The creative demolition of public service broadcasting is progressing" is not a conclusion that I came up with, but rather a editorial contribution in the quality newspaper NRC of 30 August 2015. Entertainment, scattering programmes, has always been an essential part of the public service remit. The draft law before us is linked to one long leg, namely that pure entertainment programmes that only the public want to entertain should not be part of the public service broadcasting package and one short leg, namely that entertainment should be allowed when it serves to attract a wide and diverse audience for information, culture and education. As in a successful slapstick the main character with raised head smiling towards the abyss, the state secretary hacks into the swamp with a long and short leg limp and inevitable. 50PLUS goes into this a little more deeply, because we foresee that in the near future, partly because of the government's grip on this issue and in view of a number of appointments, major conflicts will arise. First of all, we want to know from the Secretary of State why he did not follow the advice of the Council of State in this matter, which states that pluralism is a varied offer and that entertainment does indeed belong in the package. One of the many unanswered questions in the more preliminary report is: should the viewers not have fun without an ulterior motive and why not? Should a André van Duin be expelled from the public network and chased to commercial broadcasting? I have numbered the questions for the Secretary of State in order to make it easier for him to answer all these questions and to avoid unnecessary interruptions. The State Secretary's vision on this subject is dark and, as we predict, leads to great difficulties in the future. With a commonplace like "the public offering must meet public values," you can't do anything at all. Would the Secretary of State really believe that a André van Duin, a André Hazes or a Martine Bijl with Heel Holland Bakt does not meet public values? What do he think are public values and what aren't? I'd like a sharp definition. That hinding on two thoughts that cannot be combined is also evident from the following quotes. "The current assignment is so broad that virtually any program and genre can meet, while not all the offer has sufficient quality and creativity." Who decides? Will the government-appointed supervisors do so soon? With this rather unliberal and elitist guardianship, doesn't the Secretary of State go along with the title of the uncrowned pharaoh of the canal belt? The view about entertainment is also opposed by Karin Bloemen in an interview for Wakker Nederland, outside politics and from the direct field. She says: "The laugh is very important in our social and social life. People can finally relax at home and feel spoiled by taxpayers' money." She added: "Some jokes can't be made with the commercials. It is a question of freedom of expression." It seems that the VVD ideology about broadcasting leaves no room for these justified critical remarks. The role of public service broadcasting is also discussed abroad. In Belgium entertainment has less priority, in England the BBC regularly broadcasts great entertainment such as Idols and The Voice. But it really becomes inimitable if entertainment should be allowed if it serves multiple viewers and listeners to other programs: information, culture and education. In fact, the Secretary of State wants to have demonstrated this effect per programme. This opens the way to endless, time-consuming and administration-consuming discussions. What to do if one considers the differences to be objectively measured too small and the other does not? What criteria are laid down in advance by whom? What to do with counter-arguments such as: the timing of placement, increased competition on other networks? How many times do we have to make a statement before the officials appointed by the government are allowed to intervene? Is this the way to promote creative programming? Can the Secretary of State describe how he thinks endless conflicts can be avoided? As a follow-up, the State Secretary's reflections on reaching a broad and, above all, total audience are held. When it comes, for example, to young people and those with lower education, it is necessary that certain programmes such as entertainment, sports and especially football are broadcast by public service broadcasting because of their recruitment character. Those who demand one thing and in fact want to make the other impossible to a large extent do not have a consistent policy. The Secretary of State writes in the reply: "Yes, I am aware that entertainment programmes of public service broadcasting reach a large audience. However, the fact that a lot of people are watching and listening is not enough for me to create and broadcast a programme." And then again, resoundingly, "Public service broadcasting must make programmes based on public values that contribute to the democratic, social and cultural needs of the public. There is no need for the provision of programmes aimed only at fun and entertainment." In order to further write five pages of "... that the total programming of the public service broadcasting must take due account of the whole range of interests and needs of the Dutch population." The Secretary of State can no longer be followed here. This can only mean that entertainment and football should be included in the tasks set out in the broadcasting and media law, as stated by the Council of State. In several places, including in the reply and the further reply, the State Secretary insists that public service broadcasting should reach too few young people. But it is true that there is a decline in young people's viewing behaviour throughout Europe because of various causes, and it is true that, according to a report by the EBU Netherlands, almost 90% of young people have the highest reach in Europe. In an attempt to be right, the Secretary of State states "that persons aged 65 and over make up six times as much use of the television offered by the public transmitter as a teenager." Carefully chosen that 65-plusser who thus no longer works, can watch during the day and often watch evenings later than the young or tasked teenagers. The KNVB is lucky that Secretary of State Dekker does not have the sport in his portfolio. Otherwise, it could be blamed that a hundred times more teenagers play football than 65-plussers. The Secretary of State really has something unusual about entertainment. In my introduction I mentioned the historical role of the VVD vis-à-vis public service broadcasting. It has often argued that the broadcasting of football is not a necessity for public service broadcasting. In particular, the spokesman for this party in the Lower House regularly makes a point of this and says that the public broadcaster would offer too much money for summaries or for example the Champions League. This created an environment that prevented public service broadcasting from competing properly. The Secretary of State has strengthened that image by saying that the failure to broadcast the CL would save a lot of money. He later watered that down at questions of 50PLUS. But what are the facts? I will go into this, because this point is a very underestimated part of the public order and can also apply tomorrow, as has happened before, to the summaries of the Dutch Honor Division and is about to apply to the Olympic Games, the rights of which were purchased by Discovery from 2018. The Champions League matches are the most prestigious matches of the annual football event. This is the main locomotive for young people and those with lower education to watch public service broadcasting, as we know from the ratings. A point which the Secretary of State considers so important, especially when he finds that the number of young people at NPO 3 is falling. What is so sad is that the VVD and the State Secretary vote that by not offering by public service broadcasting at the Champions League there will be so many other financial opportunities for other programmes. According to my information, the opposite is more true. We do not know the exact figures these football nights cost, but we have been given indications about them. It is very important that costs are almost immediately recovered by the high STER revenues on about thirty broadcast evenings. This revenue now goes to commercial broadcasting and due to other tariffs and programme interruptions even significantly more than that. On those 30 nights, public service broadcasting now has to broadcast replacement programming, for which there is little or no additional resources. Internally, there are calculations that STER revenues are being missed that could reach around EUR 20 million. And the role of this Secretary of State is not to fight or stand up for his public service. On 25 August last year he declared at BNR: "In itself, I don't mind the CL going to SBS. Public service broadcasting can make other beautiful programmes with the money saved." State Secretary Dekker called this a good development and added that football does not belong to the public service when it costs too much money. Is this incompetence or deliberate degradation policy of the public system? What are the consequences? Financially it is detrimental, it leads to lower viewing poetry on the youth channel NPO 3 and the image is of a Secretary of State who welcomes the way things are going. It's gonna be your secretary of state. But it fits in perfectly with the VVD views on public service broadcasting. After all, the failure to broadcast major sporting events such as the CL and Olympic Games has far-reaching consequences: far fewer viewers for public service broadcasting, a more limited and, above all, more elitist audience. This in turn leads to less STER revenues, putting the shelf life of three TV networks at risk. That's exactly what the VVD always wanted. The government's influence and the possibility now created of influencing the ex ante programmes are some of the key points of the objection to this legislative amendment. The 50PLUS Group believes that the Secretary of State is rather light-hearted, if not imprudent, about the possible legal objections. Is the Secretary of State familiar with the report of the law firm Stibbe, commissioned by broadcasting MAX? The conclusion is that the First Chamber may not adopt this law because the law is contrary to Article 7 Constitution and Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR). I mention the demonstrable influence the government has in the appointments of the President and members of the Supervisory Board of NPO, who in turn appoints the Governing Board of NPO. In fact, the NPO enjoys a dominant position in determining which programmes are broadcast or not, while at the same time having a significant share of the media budget. The dominant position of the NPO is considered to be contrary to Article 10 ECHR. In the further reply, we read with surprise the remark on the European Commission's investigation. She had reviewed the Dutch public media system. There was no criticism, it says, but that investigation dates back to 2010. At that time there was no question of the current legislative changes. Have these changes been submitted to the European Commission or have there been any contact? It is wise to hold on to this proposal to amend the Media Act until the consultation has taken place and to prevent further processes, as announced by MAX. We are also very concerned about the introduction of genre coordinators alongside station coordinators. The Council of State has requested that a detailed arrangement be laid down, excluding prior surveillance. This arrangement is still lacking. The further reply states that genre coordinators will have to assume the role of the station coordinators in the long term. There will therefore be a phase in which the two types of coordinators co-exist. In fact, an experiment is being announced to start. It doesn't seem to be any more confusing to us. I come to the question of appointments. The Secretary of State appointed a three-person selection committee for the nomination of a new Supervisory Board for the NPO. Two of them were relatively unknown Dutch and certainly not politicians. The appointment of the third member, the VVD'er Clemens Cornielje, Commissioner of the King in Gelderland, former VVD campaign leader and former VVD Vice-President in the Lower House was therefore striking. He is an undoubtedly exceptional political heavyweight. Can you think of this as a political appointment? On page 43 of the further reply, the Secretary of State himself gives the definition of a political appointment. I quote: 'The purpose of a political appointment is to represent a political colour in a particular position in order to influence it'. I think it's extremely cleverly formulated. Subsequently, a Supervisory Board for the NPO was appointed on the proposal of this selection committee. Chairman became VVD'er Bruno Bruins. He was alderman in The Hague at the time that the current VVD Secretary of State of OCW was party chairman in the Hague City Council. An appointment to influence it from there? VPRO director Lennart van der Meulen called this appointment a political bias. The President of the College of Appeals, Gerard Timmer, denounced the appointment on behalf of the NOS, NTR, VPRO, EO, AVRO, TROS, KRO-NCRV and BNN-VARA. In addition, there were other notable things. The central works council made use of the right to nominate a candidate for the Supervisory Board: former MP Mirjam Strong of the CDA. Finally a politician who doesn't come out of the VVD, you'd think. She was rejected despite her great resume and reputation. Previously, the appointment of the Chair of the Supervisory Board for the NTR was discussed. According to our information, there was a nomination by another selection committee. It was a non-VVD guy. In a rather broad group, namely the College of Broadarms, it was announced that this nomination had been rejected. Then Eric van der Burg was appointed, VVD-alderman in Amsterdam. In the further reply, the Secretary of State denies this course of action. Is he sticking to his vision? To sum up, three very important top positions have been occupied by VVDs, namely the post in the government, i.e. the State Secretariat, the Chair of the Supervisory Board of the NTR and the Chair of the Supervisory Board of the NPO. There is a bill here that does not meet the criteria of care, feasibility and enforcement in many essential areas. Important pillars in the public system are being demolished with all the consequences for Star revenue. Earlier this happened with the disappearance of the Champions League football, welcomed by the Secretary of State, which now has to be done in the most confusing way with the entertainment. This is making it increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to finance three television networks in the long term, especially now that the substantial cuts already introduced are being made. Why is that? It's not in the coalition agreement. The 2012 government agreement on "Building Bridges" states: "The central point of media policy is to guarantee an independent, varied and high-quality offer, accessible to all layers of the population." There is no mention of the need for a different programme offer, nor of a smaller role for broadcasters. Where do these proposals come from? In this context, it is good to read again what is in the 2012 VVD election programme about broadcasting and what is missing from the government agreement. This VVD program was co-written by Secretary of State Sander Dekker. I quote: 'The role of publicly funded broadcasters must be reduced'. I quote: "They must only offer programmes with social added value that are not offered by the commercial provider." I quote: 'To carry out the public service task, a maximum of two general TV networks can be used'. The VVD election programme is largely implemented or prepared in this bill. The NRC Handelsblad was right when the newspaper wrote: "The creative demolition of public service broadcasting is progressing unless the First Chamber does not allow this for all the arguments we have put forward."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u13	Mr. Chairman. The media landscape is changing dramatically. More and more new media services and media products flood competitor and consumer, from YouTube missed to Broadcast, from video blogs to video-on-demand. Young media consumers in particular are moving through this new digital and interactive landscape every day. The old-fashioned linear view of the TV offerings that are being broadcast at that time is experiencing fierce competition from the new possibilities. On smartphones and tablets this competition is already at the disadvantage of linear television. The pace of change in the media landscape is hard to keep up with. Last week, PBS announced that it would start in the Netherlands as another foreign player in a few months' time. In this rapidly changing context, the aim of the present legislative proposal is to make the public broadcasting system future-proof. The proposed measures should lead to stronger choices, stronger creative competition and greater unity in the performance of the public task, as we read in the explanatory memorandum. If the order remains unchanged, the public broadcasting system will continue to lose its relevance, the government argues. Now there's something strange going on with the sentiments surrounding the present bill. For example, the NPO and the College of Appeals have supported the proposed measures several times. I read in the joint press response of NPO and the College of Broadcasting: "With the new Media Act, public service broadcasting will be able to anticipate the new way of looking even better in the coming years." And: "The NPO organisation and broadcasters support greater openness in the system that gives producers and programmers the opportunity to make programme proposals directly to the NPO organisation and to offer new formats." At the same time, we met at the expert meeting on 4 December. many critical sounds, including from the College of Broadcasts. The PvdA Group understands the concerns we had at the expert meeting. My group stands for an independent and pluralist public media service as a crucial part of our democratic system. She is concerned about too much political influence on that public media service. This has led us to ask for a number of firm commitments during the written examination of the legislative proposal before us. I am happy to pass through this in plenary. On some points we are reassured, on some points I urge the Secretary of State to make a further move in our direction, in order to remove the concerns of my group. I would like to begin with the need for transparency and refer to the Verhoeven/Mohandis motion adopted in the House of Representatives on maximum transparency about the costs of programming at the level of the genres. Where the Government indicated in the reply that it was in favour of transparency on the costs of public service broadcasting at programme level, the Government stated in the further reply that transparency at genre level should be the standard. I would like to highlight in plenary the commitment that a derogation from standard reporting at genre level will only be made in the case of questions put by a Member of Parliament. That is a step in the right direction, but not enough, as I would like to explain on the next point on which my group has raised questions. This concerns our request to the government to refrain from banning confidentiality clauses. I would like to highlight in plenary the commitment not to ban confidentiality clauses, and thus not to interfere with the freedom of contract of public service broadcasting and the parties with which it cooperates. It's the exceptions to these rules...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u14	I understand that financial accountability must be possible at genre level. However, Mrs Sent added that only if requested by the Chamber can the cost aspect be clarified at programme level as well. In practice, this means that each programme can in principle ask for its costs. Does Mrs Sent consider that desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u15	That is not the case. I am going to explain this point in a moment; I will come back to that. It has therefore been promised that confidentiality clauses will not be prohibited and that they will not interfere with the freedom of contract of public service broadcasting and the parties with which they cooperate. But, and that brings me to Mr Atsma's point, it is the exceptions to these rules that cause serious concern to my group. The State Secretary refers to Articles 2.15 and 2.178 of the Media Act 2008, in his replies on programme-level transparency and confidentiality clauses, which would oblige him to provide the necessary information if necessary for the performance of his task. According to the Secretary of State, it is in this case his task to inform Parliament in accordance with Article 68 of the Constitution. However, Article 68 of the Constitution does not in itself provide a basis for requiring NPO and private broadcasters to provide information. A duty to provide information, or a prohibition of confidentiality, requires separate legislation. The appeal to Article 2.15 of the Media Act does not apply. This provision does not provide an explicit basis for imposing an obligation to provide information at programme level on broadcasters. Article 2.15 states that the NPO must provide information on the activities of the NPO. Therefore, no obligation to provide information on the costs incurred by broadcasters' programmes cannot be derived, since they do not concern the activities of the NPO. The creation of programmes is not the responsibility of the NPO, as the Minister repeatedly states in the various documents accompanying this legislative proposal. And Article 2.178 deals with something quite different, namely sound administration. This is required and should be involved in the assessment of the granting of recognition. The costs of programmes do not play a role in this, because they are independent of proper administration. After all, a costly programme does not say anything about the soundness of the administration. For the Media Commissioner, this article is important because of the legality test, but it is not expressly part of the task of the Secretary of State. In short, the powers of the Secretary of State are not unlimited. In particular, business information communicated confidentially to the Commissariat or NPO may not be quoted by the Secretary of State in public letters or be involved in a public debate on Chambers. Article 68 of the Constitution does not change that. That is why we ask the Secretary of State for a firm commitment to respect this reading of the Constitution and the Media Act. Then I come to the task of public service broadcasting and the role played by entertainment. In the explanatory memorandum to the present bill, the government writes: "However, entertainment can be used as a means to achieve an informative, cultural or educational goal or to attract and bind a broad and diverse audience, so that these goals are brought to the attention." This is what my group supports. However, in the reply we read that the government of the NPO expects the NPO to demonstrate per programme that this audience would not have been reached without that entertainment program. In the opinion of my group, this is impossible to prove. We therefore asked the government to refrain from the impossible burden of proof with regard to entertainment. In the further reply, the Government acknowledges that the burden of proof must not be impossible and reasonable. However, the government wants to go beyond what is stated in the explanatory memorandum, according to the following sentence in the reply: "This is not enough, because it does not make it clear whether an entertainment programme was actually necessary to achieve the core objectives." In my group's opinion, the Secretary of State is looking for a causality that cannot be distilled from the figures of the Stichting KijkResearch. After all, regression analysis can never reveal a causal relationship. Regression analysis assumes causality between variables. An experiment can be said about causality, but the public broadcasting system does not, in my group's view, lend itself to such experiments. My group has the following in mind. The NPO has an obligation to make as likely as possible, within reasonable limits of time, money and human resources, that an entertainment programme contributes to the binding of a wide audience and specific groups to the channels of the NPO and the other offerings of the NPO, and thus to the range of information, education and culture. My group therefore believes that the provisions contained in the present legislative proposal and the wording in the explanatory memorandum have been complied with. That is why we ask the Secretary of State for a firm commitment to respect this interpretation of the burden of proof. The relationship between the NPO and broadcasters raises the necessary questions, especially given the impression that the involvement of the NPO as a result of the present legislative proposal seems to move more and more towards the content. This is certainly true when broadcasters, together with an external party, want to make changes, but only if they go back to the NPO for approval immediately. The responsibility for coordinating and programming belongs to the NPO and the responsibility for form and content of the broadcasters, my group believes. We have therefore asked the government to respect the commitment that broadcasters have the freedom to determine the form and content of the media they provide and that there is no place for binding, substantive frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u16	That sounds like music to my ears. Does this also mean that the PvdA Group with the CDA Group believes that the NPO can, but should not, coordinate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u17	Our concern is with binding substantive frameworks. The NPO certainly has a steering role. This is already happening; it is already part of the current practice that the NPO cannot honour all requests from programme makers and broadcasters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u18	Then I come back to the previous sentences made by Mrs Sent, in which she spoke explicitly about the autonomy of broadcasters. How does that relate to the steering character of the NPO?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u19	I find myself strengthened in this by the joint letter sent by NPO and the college of broadcasters to the Lower House. In that they have explained very well how they see it. I would very much like to quote from that, because I think it is important for the image that we realise that it is two parties that can find each other in a method of working. The quote is as follows: "That is why, if the cabinet's intentions continue, external producers can also submit their programme proposals directly to the NPO organisation from 2016 onwards, which can then submit them to a co-production broadcaster." This is a fully-fledged co-producer role, which means that broadcasters must be able to assume the substantive responsibility. "The NPO organisation can make more or less agreements with the external party on format, budget, rights and provisional substantive frameworks." That is a text supported by the NPO and the College of Broadcasting. It is also a method that we support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u20	Following that, a round table was organised here, in which their representatives from the broadcasters were also sitting around the place where the State Secretary now sits, and it was indicated that what is now being presented is not what they expected from it. In short, it seems that in recent months the necessary changes have been made to perception and explanation. Mrs. Sent was there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u21	I was there, too. What has changed is that in the Lower House an explanation has been given, for example, of "transparency at cost level" or "burden of proof with regard to entertainment" and that in all kinds of letters there were all kinds of tightening-ups concerning the burden of proof in which the broadcasters felt uncomfortable. I see it as our task in the First Chamber that we are clear about exactly what our expectations are with regard to the drafting of the bill and that we do not deviate from what has been agreed in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u22	Mr Sent mentioned two important aspects that we saw tightening up after agreements had been made. The third aspect concerns the outside producer acting as a co-producer together with a broadcaster. Agreements have also been made on this subject, but an amendment has subsequently been made. How do we deal with that? On this point, too, I see a difference between what was agreed in the concession policy plan about the ideal situation in which the NPO and the broadcasters find each other well and the explanation given by the State Secretary. How does the Labour Party's group appreciate that? Does it make the same demands as the demand I have just heard with regard to entertainment, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u23	I wasn't done with this point. Once again, I would like to stress that we support the wording of the letter from the NPO and the College of Broadcasting. It says literally: "The NPO organisation can make more or less agreements with the external party on format, budget, rights and provisional substantive frameworks." We therefore asked the government to respect the commitment that broadcasters have the freedom to determine the form and content of the media they provide and that there is no place for binding substantive frameworks. In the further reply, the Government undertakes to respect Article 2.88 of the Media Act 2008. This clearly defines the editorial autonomy of those who make the programmes within the system. I would also like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the Segers/Heerma motion adopted (34264), No. 30) on a leading role of the NPO and broadcasters vis-à-vis the outside producer. This means that agreements between the NPO and external producers cannot be binding if broadcasters do not agree. We also read that broadcasters have a role to play since the first talks between the NPO and external producers. We expect the Secretary of State to implement this motion and ask him to confirm it. Nevertheless, I read a tension in the following quote from the further reply: "The broadcaster that co-produces takes into account the frameworks put forward by the NPO on the basis of an external party's proposal. These frameworks may cover budget, format and rights, but they may also be substantive frameworks." In my group's view, this is at odds with the fact that editorial form and content is and remains the responsibility of broadcasters, as laid down in Article 2.88 of the Media Act. We therefore call on the Secretary of State to recognise, in a clear manner, that Article 2.88 of the Media Act precedes the powers of direction attributed to the NPO. In the opinion of the PvdA, the heavier role for the NPO belongs to good internal checks-and-balances with clear appeal possibilities. The Culture Council gives its opinion Time is open, starting from page 81, on a number of substantive recommendations. These relate to a good programme statute applicable to genre and transmitter coordinators and a programme advisory board. In the further reply we read that, if a programme statute helps to clarify working practice, the Secretary of State thinks this is a good proposal. We would like to highlight in plenary his commitment to ask the NPO to work out this idea. However, we also asked for a programme advisory council and we expect a commitment that the State Secretary will also ask the NPO to include this proposal. And does the Secretary of State consider it desirable, with my group, that this should be done with the agreement of the broadcasters? If so, what consequences does he have? My group notes that the Governing Board of the NPO is given greater steering powers as a result of the present legislative proposal. In this context, the Mohandis/Segers motion adopted (34264) is important. 42) on the appointment of members of the Governing Board of the NPO, proposing that they be appointed by the Supervisory Board and no longer with the agreement of the Minister. The applicants consider it undesirable that the appointment of future and new directors of the NPO may be a political matter and therefore consider it desirable that appointments be made directly and alone by the Supervisory Board, without the intervention of the Minister. My group supports this. However, in the motion, the government is only requested to consider how the appointments of new NPO directors can be made most independently. This doesn't go far enough for us. We want a firm commitment from the State Secretary that the board of directors of the NPO will henceforth be appointed by the supervisory board and no longer with the agreement of the minister. More generally, Professor Van Eijk of the University of Amsterdam concludes: "Procedures are intransparent and appointments are the subject of arbitrariness." I would like to highlight in plenary the Secretary of State's commitment in the further reply to carry out a serious reconnaissance on the transparency and independence of appointments in the public media.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u24	It is very nice that Mrs Sent is asking for that commitment, because the Secretary of State has already made it in his reply. I have one more question for Mrs Sent. Here lies a legislative proposal with a legislative amendment, which we are actually saying: it is very difficult to define the method of appointment as it is now customary. Should we not wait until there is a new system of appointments and then allow the amendment of the Media Act to enter into force? In short, shouldn't it have happened at the same time? Couldn't the Secretary of State have seen this coming in advance? Isn't this the only way to fix it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u25	The Secretary of State has not yet promised that the members of the board of directors of the NPO will henceforth be appointed by the supervisory board. That was not promised in the further reply. However, it has been promised that a broad exploration will take place. I believe that an important momentum is now being created by the legislative proposal before us. It is not just a matter of appointments to the NPO, but also of having not yet completed my sentence................................................................................................................................................................................................. At the expert meeting Professor Van Eijk advised such a broad exploration. In his view, such a broad exploration should not hinder the adoption of the Media Act in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u26	It is nice that Mrs Sent is here venting Mr Van Eijk's opinion, but I asked her about her opinion. We are now going to amend that law on essential grounds. At the same time, we keep the system in which politics gets even closer to the media, to public service broadcasting. In any case, my party feels that this is an undesirable situation. Mrs Sent's input seems to be going that way. Would it not then be logical that we first ensure that the structure is good and only then implement that change?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u27	I hope that the Secretary of State is already ready to make a change to the structure so that the Governing Board is no longer appointed by politics. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to a broad exploration. The momentum for this is fueled by the bill. It is not just about the NPO but about the media landscape in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u28	I conclude that Mrs Sent cannot agree to this law if the Secretary of State does not now undertake to change that way of appointment immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u29	I am going to wait and then make up my mind, because this is not the only point that we think is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u30	I would like to make it a little sharper with you, Mr President. Ms Sent said it was about the appointment of the Chairman of the Administrative Board by the Secretary of State. I think this is only about the right of assent, because the appointment is made by the Supervisory Board. Doesn't Mrs Sent agree with us that this band should also be cut?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u31	The question is what is the best alternative system. We have suggested co-optation and we have noticed from the answers that there are disadvantages. We are pleased that the Secretary of State is going to conduct a wide-ranging reconnaissance. In the further reply, he undertook to do so in the short term. However, we would like to add a few things to that broad exploration. I shall come to that in a moment, to make it a little sharper, hopefully in line with what Mr Lintmeijer expects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u32	I hear Mrs Sent saying she's looking at alternatives. I understand from that that she actually agrees with me that that line between the Supervisory Board and the Secretary of State should also be cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u33	We like to wait for the broad exploration, especially because other forms also have disadvantages. So I don't have the most desirable alternative in mind right away. However, I would like to mention a number of points which we will use when assessing the results of the broad survey carried out by the Secretary of State. That's what I'm getting at. The commitment is therefore that there will be a serious exploration of the transparency and independence of appointments in the public media. As I have just said, it concerns the NPO, the RPO, the NOS, the NTR, the Star, the Media Commissioner and the Journalism Fund. We look forward to receiving the results of this study this spring, as well as the response of the Secretary of State to it. The PvdA welcomes this commitment. In addition, we strongly ask the Secretary of State to involve domain expertise in the considerations. In the specific case of the NPO Supervisory Board, the State Secretary states that he did not interfere with the selection procedure and that he advised an independent selection committee. There are several weaknesses in this argument. A: The committee is composed and appointed by the State Secretary. B: The opinion does not have a formal status and is therefore not binding, transparent and should not be rejected on a reasoned basis. We would like to ask the Secretary of State for a commitment that serious exploration will lead to a solution to these two weaknesses. We also ask him to give explicit consideration to the possibility of legal anchoring the situation in which one or more members of the Supervisory Board resign each year instead of the current undesirable situation in which the entire Supervisory Board resigns at once. The recent appointment of the Chair of the Supervisory Board of the NPO has already received due attention due to the combination with his Presidency of the Management Board of UWV. Professor Van Eijk writes: "The Media Act does not consider membership of the Supervisory Board to be compatible with an employment in an institution under the responsibility of a minister." It is stated in Article 2.6 (1) of the Media Act as follows: "The membership of the Supervisory Board is incompatible with (...) an employment in a ministry or in a service, institution or company falling under the responsibility of a minister." Although UWV is an independent administrative body, it is the responsibility of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. UWV is accountable to the Minister for the policy choices it makes, as well as for the way government policies are implemented. The Minister shall also appoint the members of the Management Board. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State what consequences he has for the fact that this appointment seems to be contrary to the Media Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u34	Now that this has been said, I would like to know from the PvdA Group what she thinks about this. She asks the Secretary of State what consequences he makes, but what are her views on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u35	My view is that there seems to be a contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u36	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u37	I will then leave it to the Secretary of State to draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u38	But what does the PvdA Group think that the consequences should be? The Secretary of State is willing to listen, and so are we. We are therefore particularly curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u39	I think it is premature to give an answer to that. First, I await the answer of the Secretary of State to the question of whether our interpretation of the Media Act is the right one. That is why we are having a debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u40	The provision is not only contained in the Media Act but also in the NPO Foundation Act. It's very clear in there. Even someone with little legal knowledge knows that the appointment is contrary to the founding act. I therefore ask Mrs Sent again what consequences this should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u41	I will give the same answer again, namely that I would like to see to what extent the Secretary of State agrees with this. I leave it to him to draw conclusions, because I have not appointed a chairman of the Supervisory Board. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the regional broadcasters from the Council of Culture in its report "Future public broadcasting: content and creators central" concerns about the state of regional journalism. The regional newspapers are now almost entirely taken over and the regional broadcasters are expected to cut 17 million. At the same time, all kinds of powers are decentralised. How does the Secretary of State see the role of regional journalism in the system of checks-and-balances? And how does he intend to facilitate regional journalism in fulfilling that important role in a functioning democracy? Within the context of austerity, my group detects initiatives to introduce innovations. How does the Secretary of State feel about this search for improvement? And how does he facilitate the bottom-up initiatives? The demographic movements take place from country to city, and from outside to inside the Randstad. How does this development fit in with the State Secretary's assessment of the new system of central financing and administration? How does it facilitate particular attention to shrinkage areas? In the written question round, the PvdA asked for a commitment that the proposed savings of 17 million would not be at the expense of the editors and programmes. In the further reply, the government suggests that this is possible by saving between 12 and 14 million by means of national cooperation and between 3 and 5 million by means of specific forms of cooperation per cluster. How realistic does the Secretary of State consider these calculations of the ROOS Foundation? And does he think it would be undesirable for us if the cuts were to be at the expense of the quality and content of the regional media supply? If so, what consequences will he then have if this happens? In this respect, we expect the Secretary of State's commitment to ensure the preservation of high-quality and independent journalism in the region. We welcome the commitment from the further statement of reply that the appointments to the RPO will also be part of the broad exploration of the transparency and independence of appointments in the public media. We would also point out that there is no need to cluster forms of cooperation between regional broadcasters at the centre of the national broadcasters. Today we are discussing the first phase of regional broadcasting. We read in the explanatory memorandum that the intended entry into force of the legislative amendment of the second phase is 1 January 2017. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State when we can expect this bill. We want and must draw special attention to the special position of Omrop Fryslân. Due to the fact that Frisian is the second state language, this channel broadcasts a number of specific programmes on a weekly basis, such as school television and documentaries. Within the framework of the joint responsibility and duty of care of the Empire and the province for the Frisian language and culture, as laid down in the Frisian language law, the province of Friesland is ready to make a substantial and structural contribution to Omrop Fryslân from 2017 onwards for the broad Frisian programming on various media platforms. By contributing in this way, the province of Fryslân assumes its responsibility. In doing so, the province considers that the Empire assumes its responsibility by maintaining the independence of the administration and supervisory board of Omrop Fryslân, together with maintaining the existing objective of Omrop Fryslân. We ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to accept this responsibility. I conclude with a quote from a letter dated 23 January 2008, from the Minister of Education, Culture and Science to the House of Representatives: "Public broadcasting does not involve any substantive interference. The broadcasters themselves are responsible for the content of their programmes. Only ex post (independent) supervision takes place. This is the result of the Constitution and is so stipulated in the Media Act." For my group, this is beyond question. We expect the Secretary of State to show his answers that there can be no misunderstanding about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u42	Mr. Chairman. The "future-proofing of the public media service" is worth a lot of thought and discussion before far-reaching decisions are taken. That is what has happened in the treatment, even here in the Upper Chamber, to a fairly large extent. The influence of the government on the NPO, the directional role of the NPO and its influence on programming or even programme content, the definition of the role of the public media within the overall media system and the question of whether the required pluralism should now come from the broadcasting associations alone with members or especially from a steering NPO with its own ability to obtain proposals from external producers, all of which has been frequently discussed. In addition, the other part of the bill has been discussed, the design of a national embedding of regional broadcasters. The RPO, which aims to provide for the legislative proposal, must also be steered, like the NPO, but not so much in programming but in financial terms, i.e. in allocating facilities and human resources, i.e. in making far-reaching choices, for the editorial staff working independently in the regions in principle. The Council of State notes the hybrid nature of the organisation of national public service broadcasting through the combination of broadcasting associations and central control. It is true that the reason for many questions about the functioning of the system is true, while it seems difficult to really get clear answers to that. Broadcasting associations are restricted in their freedom, first and foremost, by restricting the public service broadcasting mission: no more entertainment, only if it helps for information, culture and education. The NPO will, of course, monitor this in its programming task. And they are further restricted in their freedom by the evaluation of programmes by the NPO, also in the context of the programming task. The important question is how far the NPO can go. Does the NPO only refer to the genre, or even to the more far-reaching ones, against the borders of or even beyond the limits of the prohibition of prior supervision? How far does the task of the network coordinators and the undescribed genre coordinators go? The Secretary of State has not so far been able to make it clear that there will be no prior substantive monitoring. His answers are always at the limit of general content, genre, and real concrete content. This creates risks, and for us it is not easy to assess whether the Constitution and the ECHR can be too easily violated here. The government's opinion on this really does not go beyond its conclusion that it will ultimately be "a good interplay between NPO and broadcasters." And in order to play a role in this interplay, there will be the panel of broadcasters, for the consultancy of the concession policy plan, and the editors with which the broadcasters speak, for the definition of the profiles for the channels of supply and the drawing up of the programme schedules. Whether that interplay is going to work is the question. The position of broadcasters in the event of failure does not seem to be very strong in advance. Objections and appeals to the courts remain difficult if many decisions are taken by means of oral consultation..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... How does the Secretary of State judge that? The task of public service broadcasting is to provide information, culture and education with, where appropriate, no more than a leading role for entertainment. This seems to me to be the right starting point for a broadcasting company which is paid in principle out of taxpayers' money. As far as the requirement for a multi-purpose offer is concerned, I believe that the broadcasters, even after the forced mergers, are still the best guarantee for this. An additional role for external productions, through choices by the NPO, can further contribute to this, but the role of these external producers is already very large through the provision of content to the broadcasting associations. I mean, about 50%. So that is already equal to the size of the programme's budget for strengthening the programme. Does the Secretary of State expect the role of these externals through the co-operation with the NPO to change substantially in the new situation? The appointment system for the Supervisory Board and the Board of Directors of the NPO, together with the appointments at NTR, NOS and Media Commissioner, is under severe criticism. A role, but remotely, for the government does not seem to be avoided in public service broadcasting. A little further away wouldn't be disgusting to me, but I don't have a direct picture of how to do that. I thought for a moment that we would get some suggestions on this from Mrs Sent, but they were not really there either. So much for national public service broadcasting. The section on regional broadcasting, which has received less attention in the debate, remains, at least institutionally, almost more significant than the shifts in national broadcasting. This is a total conversion of the system from thirteen independent regional broadcasters to one regional public service broadcaster, with thirteen only editorially independent regional departments. In this way, the planned 17 million savings should be achieved by a strong central organisation in as many facilities and back office work as possible. This must be done in less than a year if the plans are not to be amended, and it is now quite clear that the cuts cannot be fully achieved by these interventions. The draft law before us does not yet regulate much more than the creation of that one RPO, which must act as a concessionaire for regional broadcasting as a whole. And who, as a direct task, now, in connection with the cuts, gets: "decorating, maintaining, managing and operating the use of bodies, services and facilities, including studios and distribution infrastructures." The RPO will manage and distribute the budget for the entire regional broadcaster after 1 January 2017. The response to the plans might surprise you. There is a large and fundamental difference between the reaction that comes to us from the editorial boards and works councils of the thirteen broadcasters together, and the reaction that has been given from the board, civil society organisations and the broadcasting itself from Friesland. The overall response focuses on practical problems and threats. The reaction from Friesland is mainly a principled rejection of the plans. The joint response from the 13 regional broadcasters states that this will be a major cut in costs, which cannot reasonably be achieved in less than a year with the necessary complex new management methods, which, moreover, will never be able to cover the full amount of the cut and which will inevitably affect journalism in addition to technology. This is all the more painful as the tasks of the municipalities in particular have become so much larger and more difficult to implement. A monitoring regional journalism is particularly important right now. The regional press is having a hard time. The fact that the Regional Public Broadcasting is also limited by government intervention combines poorly with all other cuts made. Furthermore, ROOS, in fact almost the initiator of the plans, notes that time is getting too short, that the cuts cannot be made in this way and that there is a delay. The demand by regional broadcasters not to make the austerity so great that it should also affect the editorial staff seems justified. Also the question, which now comes from ROOS, to take more time, seems justified. I would like to receive comments from the Secretary of State. The State budget for 2017 has yet to be adopted. This year there was at least 5 billion for all kinds of charities available. So maybe there are possibilities. What is regulated in the draft law before us does not mean anything definitive. However, it includes the establishment of the RPO, with the aim of reaching the final final situation on the basis of a draft law to be submitted later this year as of 1 January 2017. This draft law also states that the RPO is to be granted the concession "for the achievement of the public media mission at regional level," that the RPO is to be entrusted with the task of establishing a concession policy plan, which lays down the elaboration of the regional public media mission, and that the RPO will conclude a performance agreement with the Minister on what to achieve with the Regional Public Broadcasting. The draft law also implies that the appointment of the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board of the RPO is comparable to the situation at the NPO. So there are the same objections. The IPO also explicitly points to one aspect of this. How can the RPO be made less nationwide? Another interesting question is who will soon appoint the editors and editors of these independent departments in the regions. The conclusion is that the adoption of the present draft law, which does not directly regulate the existing independent organisations of the regional broadcasters, inevitably means that the next draft law will incorporate the Regional Public Broadcasting into the RPO. The independence of the existing organisations is thus abolished. Is that indeed inevitable when this bill is adopted? Moreover, for most regional broadcasters, this does not seem to be a major issue at all. Their problem is practical and their very legitimate questions focus on practical measures. However, the provincial government of North Brabant seems to think differently about this. The question from Friesland is also different. It comes from staff of Omrop Fryslân, but also from the breadth of government and society. The background to this question is not only a fear of divisive journalistic possibilities, but also a concern about further weakening the possibilities for a full-fledged Frisian broadcasting. The Council of State writes in its opinion: "The legitimisation of public service broadcasters is traditionally found in values such as information provision and transfer of culture and education." This broad function of public media is necessary. This is not only the case for the Netherlands, but perhaps much more for a minority steel area like Friesland. This is also expressed in the opinions of the Hoekstra Committee. The Committee speaks of a "full, independent and broad media offering in the Frisian language." This broad task requires "structurally differentiated funding" and "a separate approach to the determination of the necessary budget." The same goes for the States of Fryslân in a motion adopted unanimously: Omrop Fryslân must maintain an independent, independent position as the only public channel in the second state language. Friesland is not asking for an editorial board within the RPO, but for its own broadcasting. In a letter dated 28 January, Deputy States of Fryslân, together with a number of organizations, indicated what they expected from the meeting with the State Secretary in which the rich and the province had to come to an agreement. That promised conversation still hasn't taken place. That is a pity, because that means that there is still no clarity on the position of the Secretary of State and on the position of Omrop Fryslân if the draft law before us were to be adopted. It is clear what is requested and offered from the province. The province is prepared to provide funds to help finance a full-fledged broadcasting service for Friesland. The province expects this full-fledged broadcasting to remain independent, with its own administration, its own supervisory board and its own broadcasting authorisation. It will of course be possible to establish a close relationship with the other regional broadcasters and the RPO, so that joint efficiency measures can also be taken. As an independent organisation, but associated with the RPO, Omrop Fryslân will have to carry his own part of the cuts, but will be able to decide how they are processed. Because of the specific position also own influence on the facility is not without importance. I assume the Secretary of State will enter into the long-awaited conversation with the Frisian deputy. Perhaps he can explain in his reply what he will bring into that conversation and whether he expects the conversation to lead to agreement. Moreover, on all the other points mentioned, I would of course like to expect a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u43	Mr. Chairman. Professor Nico van Eijk wrote in De Volkskrant three weeks ago that public service broadcasting in Poland is not doing well. He's not alone in his worries. Frans Timmermans even spoke of the erosion of the rule of law by Poland. Anyway, let's not go straight into big words and see what's wrong with the plans for Polish public service broadcasting. I realize I'm not speaking today on a Polish country day. However, we must not follow the example of the Polish Government in relation to public service broadcasting. For this reason, I would like to list the problems there briefly, before looking at the situation in the Netherlands. The new law gives the Polish authorities far-reaching powers, which threaten to affect the independence of Polish public service broadcasting. From now on, the Polish Government may appoint the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board. Now this is done by a more independent body, the National Broadcasting Council. In the new situation, public service broadcasting would mainly become a state body. International organisations of journalists, the European Union and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) are very critical of these developments, as are Frans Timmermans. With the Polish example, let us look at the situation in our own country. EO director Arjan Lock today described the current lines between The Hague and Hilversum as "worriedly short." The Supervisory Board is appointed directly by the State Secretary in the Netherlands. In the article by Professor Van Eijk we can read that the new chairman of the supervisory board, Bruno Bruins, is also chairman of the board of directors of the UWV, which belongs to the Minister for Social Affairs. Bruno Bruins is a former Secretary of State, who is also a member of the VVD's election programme. This at least evokes the appearance of party political appointments. The Supervisory Board of the public service broadcaster appoints the Governing Board of the NPO in Poland, but that appointment does require the agreement of the Minister. In addition, both the concessions of broadcasters and the individual recognitions of broadcasting associations are decisions of the State Secretary. At PowNed they still talk about "Ome Roon," as a thank you to Minister Plasterk, who provided this provocative initiative with a long stay to public service broadcasting. The Secretary of State also wants to deal directly with the content of the programming of public service broadcasting. He has already indicated which programmes he no longer likes and he has also indicated that he will use the performance agreements to strengthen his ideas. Can the Secretary of State clarify this once more? Professor van Eijk writes the following about the agreement. "This performance agreement is a private agreement between the State Secretary and the board of directors of the NPO. A private agreement presupposes equality between the two parties. Of course, that is not the case here. The Minister deals with the concession and the recognition and also has the financing weapon in his hands. It is therefore unclear whether cuts in public service broadcasting are pure cuts or are partly determined by political preferences." Ton Elias, media spokesperson of the VVD on the other side, wants to guarantee the quality of the NPO through an Ombudsman, but in fact limits the journalistic independence of the NPO further and does not make clear the added value of his proposal over the Council for Journalism. Elias wants to be able to enforce corrections in programmes that have been broken down and wants to involve his proposal in the new performance agreements, as a clear stick behind the door. Now the NPO gets more powers. By this legislative proposal, the role of directing the public media mission of the broadcasting organizations is shifted to the NPO. The necessary, clear frameworks on the functioning and implementation of this new role are still lacking and would later be completed by the NPO itself. Due to the changing role of the NPO, it is desirable to obtain more clarity about these frameworks and their implementation today. I am referring in particular to the review framework for the enhanced media mission, the way in which external parties have access to the order and the introduction of genre coordinators. These frameworks are hardly laid down by law and it is unclear what these frameworks will look like in practice. Without that clarity, it would be irresponsible, as far as my group is concerned, to adopt a law that does regulate the demolition of existing public service broadcasting, but remains vague about the construction of new ones and, above all, makes it clear that the NPO and its cabinet are getting a bigger finger on the television channel. The NPO can have more control over the content of programmes, for example by paying the external producers and consulting them on content. Broadcasters could soon only have the opportunity to say yes or no to co-production, in which de facto the choice of content, which is crucial for the pluralism of our system, is destroyed. This bill leaves too much room for interpretation and threatens to affect the independence and pluralism of public service broadcasting irreversibly and in an unacceptable way. The answer to the frequently asked question of whether the new role of the NPO is contrary to the Constitution depends, in our view, on the way in which the NPO will decide whether or not to broadcast programmes proposed by the broadcasters. This is also the opinion of the Council of State and we can agree with it. Too much deregulation and privatisation has already failed to take on this adventure under vague conditions. For example, the legislative proposal should include at least a regulation of the position of genre coordinators in such a way as to exclude them from carrying out premature monitoring of the content of programmes and broadcasts. This legislative proposal now allows for the possibility that, in the process of programming and placing programmes on offer channels, they are too close to the substantive autonomy of broadcasters and their independent editors. Does the Secretary of State share this concern about independence and why has he not clearly defined the enhanced media mission, the way in which external parties have access to the system and the introduction of genre coordinators in the law? Is he prepared to make a novella in which these responsibilities and working methods are still settled in an unmistakable manner? Public service broadcasting has a strong support base in the Netherlands. More than three million people are still members of a public service broadcaster. That is ten times more than the number of members of political parties in the Netherlands. In terms of social support, we could speak of the mouse and the elephant, where the mouse wants the elephant to dance to its own accord because the mouse is in charge. A decommissioned broadcasting service is a dissipated broadcasting service when the pillar system is broken down without a good system in which citizens can recognize themselves. The new role of broadcasters is not clear about the future of the broadcasting industry. Now that many more people are members of public broadcasters than political parties, it seems obvious that support for this intervention does not result from a public demand. The value of public service broadcasting is exceptionally high and the cost of public service broadcasting is exceptionally low. In the United Kingdom, the highly acclaimed BBC model costs the British citizen €77.04 per year, the Dutch citizen pays only €50.43 per person per year. That's less than one euro a week, less than fifteen cents a day for three TV channels and four radio stations. In terms of costs, the Netherlands only ranks 13th in the overview of the European Broadcasting Union. Sailing detail: the numbers one to twelve of the list do not have a multiform broadcasting system, as we do have. We therefore have in the Netherlands the cheapest functioning pluralist broadcasting system in Europe. Remember that the BBC, as virtually only European broadcaster, also makes a lot of money selling their programmes to foreign broadcasters and it is clear that the Dutch public broadcaster is performing more than excellently. That is at least one sport in which we are European champions, but even that does not seem to be appreciated. Never was there as much leveling thinking as at present and in this legislative proposal and in the field of public service broadcasting, while it is a multicoloured public service broadcaster that guarantees contact with citizens in a non-commercial, value-free way. We also have good commercial news in the Netherlands, such as RTL Nieuws and BNR Nieuwsradio, but when we look at the news provision in a country like the United States, which is dominated by commercial broadcasters and hardly has a public counterpart, we see what we should fear when dismantling the public Broadcasting. The news from RTL and BNR are doing well, because they have to compete with the NOS journal and the NOS-Radio 1-Journaal. It is also in their interest that we cherish a strong, pluralistic and independent broadcasting service. The diversity of broadcasters ensures a balanced nature of public service broadcasting and ensures support and integration with the entire population. Switching to one umbrella organization that gets more power, causes that pluralism to disappear. It is becoming increasingly clear that the austerity imposed together with the decentralisations have far-reaching implications for the implementation and quality of regional journalism. Now that it appears that regional news is under considerable pressure, we cannot miss regional broadcasting in involving citizens in provincial and national politics. It is unacceptable for regional public service broadcasters to become victims of austerity, which may be the flag in particular to cover a disgust about the public case. The regional broadcasters strongly call for a careful review of the legislative amendment for regional broadcasters. We have heard from various sources that they really want the law to be rejected, but they fear that the austerity that has already been made will pose them with insurmountable problems. Can the Secretary of State make it clear what the consequences of the announced cuts will be if this bill does not take effect? The NPO's monitoring of the content of the programmes and the increased role of the NPO, which reduces pluralism, reduces the distance between politics and broadcasting, thereby jeopardising independence. This could further widen the gap between citizens and politics. In short, the pluralism and editorial independence of public service broadcasting will need to be more transparent in order to make public service broadcasting truly future-proof. Without this transparency and clarity, my group cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u44	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Krikke, but not after I have made the bell ring, because it is a maiden speech. I would also like to let everyone know that Mrs Krikke is the last MP of the new assembly of MPs to make a maiden speech. I wish you every success!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u45	Mr. Chairman. An independent and reliable public service broadcasting at national, regional and local level is a great asset. The programmes, websites and livestreams that reach us via public broadcasting depict and comment on the culture in the Netherlands. They connect populations, inform, learn and entertain us. They enrich our lives. Or, in other words, public service broadcasting is a supporting pillar of our democratic rule of law. And he will have to be in the future. That is not an easy task, because much is changing. Technological innovations take advantage of each other. Media usage is changing fast. Five years ago, HBO and Netflix had little meaning here. No one followed the news then mainly via smartphone and social media. Mobile internet has since taken off and with smartphones and tablets everyone now has access to a huge and still growing media offering. We get, create and share information and experiences everywhere, immediately and in every place. A modern and future-proof public media service must respond to these changes and make use of them. The structure of that public media service must be designed in such a way that it can cope with these changes. Public service broadcasting operates well in many respects, but is under pressure and is suffering from wear and tear here and there. The technological changes and the international response of increasingly large media conglomerates are an important factor. Reliable and independent media content has never been taken for granted. The audience on traditional platforms like radio and TV is ageing. There is a change in thinking about public service broadcasting. From a radio and television channel, he will have to transform himself into a public media service programming on all platforms and working with commercial parties and makers. At the beginning of this cabinet period, the government announced its intention to elaborate the changes in the media landscape in three steps. The first step was to modernise the system by reducing the number of broadcasters from 21 to 8, making the order more compact and efficient. The NPO started working with horizontal programming, whereby each broadcaster can in principle broadcast on any channel. More attention was paid to the audience's viewing behaviour and more thought from the programming as a whole. The second step was to take a number of financial measures, and the third step is the legislative proposal before us today. This bill has been given the title: Making the public media service future-proof. A somewhat boring title for a challenging change. After all, the proposed measures should lead to stronger choices, stronger creative competence and greater unity in the performance of the public task. The bill is used on a strong public media system. An order which exploits the power of broadcasters, which, from their mission and identity, provide external pluralism in the media offerings. An order in which, from a common, independent vision, clear control and responsible choices are made with the available resources. An order in which the best public programs are recognizable and find their way to the audience, always and everywhere, on the way on the smartphone and at home on the television. An important measure to this end is to change the role of the NPO from a coordinating role to a directing role. Under the current Media Act, the NPO already has the task of promoting an efficient use of financial resources. In the present legislative proposal, the NPO also gets the position of the steering and cooperation body. The NPO can make arrangements and make placement decisions for the broadcasts, but does not make programmes itself. Within the national public service broadcasting, the making of programmes is reserved for broadcasters, the NOS and the NTR. The Media Act clearly defines the editorial autonomy of those who make the programmes within the system. In addition, broadcasters receive a budget guarantee. The NPO programmes the offer and does so on the basis of the public media assignment. This means that when programming, the NPO must ensure that the public media supply is wide and diverse and that it is balanced, pluralistic, varied and high quality. If the performance of the media mission by the broadcasters, by the NIS and NTR, can be improved, the NPO should be able to intervene in this regard. This bill gives the NPO the powers and tools to do so. The VVD Group sees this extension of the task of the NPO as the heart of the legislative proposal before us. The NPO now receives not only the mandate but also the means to carry out the media assignment required by law. However, the VVD Group wonders how the balance between broadcasting organisations and the NPO can be well monitored and maintained. Can the Secretary of State once again indicate the exact interface between the powers of the NPO and the choices that the broadcasting organizations themselves can make? And can the Secretary of State also comment on the procedure if the NPO disagrees with a broadcaster? Which roads are open to both? With this bill, there will be a high level of access for external parties to the order. The bill introduces the power of the NPO to take the initiative to have programmes provided on the basis of an external party's proposal. In doing so, the broadcaster that co-produces shall respect the frameworks set by the NPO on the basis of an external party's proposal. These frameworks may cover budget, format and rights, but they may also be substantive frameworks. However, the NPO should never, as it is now, enter the editorial autonomy of the responsible broadcaster. The VVD Group considers the possibility of giving external parties access to the public channels positive and innovative. The VVD Group wonders whether the agreements needed to give external parties access to the order have already been concluded at the moment. Can the Secretary of State respond to that in his reply? The position of the NPO is carried out by the genre coordinators. Now they're network and transmitter co-ordinators. For example, the classification in programme genres can lead to an offer on the various platforms. Genre coordinators are employees of the NPO who operate on behalf of the Board of Directors, as are now the station and network coordinators. The NPO makes a co-ordination regulation for this. The VVD Group welcomes the introduction of genre coordinators, but would like to know from the Secretary of State what progress has been made in drawing up the co-ordination rules, which are essential for the proper functioning of genre coordinators. Can the Secretary of State go into that again? The members of the Supervisory Board of the NPO are appointed by the Minister of OCW by Royal Decree. The members of the Governing Board of the NPO shall be appointed by the Supervisory Board, with the agreement of the Minister. This bill also states that an independent committee prepares and offers advice to the Minister prior to the appointment of the Supervisory Board. This part of the bill has been the subject of discussion over the past few weeks, which the VVD Group intends to include in the discussion of this bill. In Poland and far beyond, there has been a great deal of fuss about the appointment policy of the recently formed government, including that of public service broadcasting. In short, the concern is that the Polish Government will have an influence on the content of the programming by appointing officials who are essentially in line with the current Polish government and who will therefore opt for programmes and messages that the government will accept. The independence of public service broadcasting in Poland is thus under discussion. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wonders whether additional measures can be taken to improve transparency and the use of objective criteria for appointments. The situation in Poland, but certainly also the new position of the NPO as a result of this bill, in the eyes of the VVD Group, require this. The members of the political group ask the Secretary of State to look again at the procedure for appointments and to come forward with proposals, possibly in a supplementary letter. The public media mission is amended in this legislative proposal. In the current full media market, it is the task of public service broadcasting to make recognizable media offerings with public added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u46	Mrs Gerkens has a question. I'm wrong, it's a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u47	The immunity chain is still hanging around me, but in the second term it's all going to happen, I imagine! Mr. Chairman. There must always be a clear public target, which justifies public funding being put into programmes. The key objectives of the enhanced mandate in this legislative proposal are information, culture and education. In the current law, scattering is still a specific and additional task for public service broadcasting. In the present bill, entertainment is no longer a core task. This change calls for a real shift in the focus of programming and calls for stronger choices to be made. Entertainment programmes can still be used if they contribute to the objectives of information, culture and education. Entertainment is thus used as a means to achieve the core goals. The VVD Group can follow the government's choice to remove scattering as a core task. However, the members of the VVD Group see that the dividing line between scattering as a goal and entertainment as a means of highlighting information, culture and education is very thin. Can the Secretary of State reconsider where he himself sees that line of division? The draft law before us also refers to the government's commitment to increasing cooperation between regional broadcasters. Further cooperation also allows regional broadcasters to use their programming to target the region as much as possible. It is very important for the regions to obtain journalism and reporting from and supported by the region in this way. The ROOS Foundation and the regional broadcasters want to realise the journalistic ambitions by investing in a fine network of regional editors on top of the news and in the middle of their regional network. In addition, the enhanced cooperation offers opportunities to operate financially more efficiently. In another legislative proposal, which is expected this year, the government is putting forward further proposals for regional broadcasters. The VVD Group considers a strong system of regional broadcasters to be very important for regional news and is therefore looking forward to further proposals from the government. For the time being, the VVD Group would like to know whether the postponement of the current legislative proposal also has a negative financial impact on the cuts to be made by regional broadcasters. Has the Secretary of State had talks with the regional broadcasters concerned and the ROOS Foundation and what has come out of it? Mr President, the VVD Group has a positive basic position on the legislative proposal before us. We look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u48	Thank you, Mrs Krikke. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to briefly outline something of your background. You studied at the Frederik Muller Academy for Library and Documentation. In 1986, you set up your own company for campaigns, conferences and events. In 1994 you became a member of the city council of Amsterdam on behalf of the VVD. Two years later, in 1996, you succeeded Frank de Grave, who is now a member of the political party in this Chamber, as alderman of Economic Affairs. As an alderman, you were committed to strengthening the economic position of our capital. And successfully, because a record number of companies have settled in Amsterdam in those years. Furthermore, you worked successfully for the preservation of the Prof. Tulpstraat, a street next to the Amstelhotel which until the Second World War was a center of the diamond trade. In order to achieve political compromises, you preferred to search behind the scenes for connections. After your aldermanship in Amsterdam, you were appointed mayor of Arnhem in 2001. Here too, you were not known for your desire to be in the forefront. However, you were praised for the way you kept in touch with the inhabitants of the city. "A liberal with a social heart" was written about you in the newspaper. In an interview, you said, "It's not about me, it's about what I can do as a driver for a city." Once you made an exception and consciously entered the spotlights. In 2005, at the second edition of the Fashion Biennale, you drove over a one-and-a-half kilometer long catwalk through the city centre. The practical argument for this was that as mayor, you could best profile Arnhem as a fashion city. In 2013 you said goodbye to Arnhem, although to date you still live there with great pleasure. In 2014 you were appointed director of the Maritime Museum. At the end of last year, however, it became clear that the Supervisory Board and you no longer pursue the same course. Since then, you have been focusing on your consulting work for government and business. Mrs Krikke, you have been a member of this Chamber since June 2015. Here you are a member of the Committees for Economic Affairs, Education, Culture and Science, for Social Affairs and Employment and for Health, Welfare and Sport. Your social and political experience predicts an interesting further contribution to the work of this Chamber and we wish you every success. I shall suspend the sitting to give colleagues and myself the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u49	Madam President. Let me begin by congratulating Mr Krikke on her maiden speech. I found it refreshing, not only because it was a fine contribution, but also because we had the opportunity to stretch our legs in a long debate to congratulate her. It will not have escaped anyone's notice that over the years the SGP has had a special attitude towards the media, especially a critical attitude because we do not underestimate the power or even the power of the media. This calls for careful vigilance, especially now that the media is responding to all the sensory possibilities of man. Every medium is focused on transfer, but from what, anyway? Education or scattering, information or flat fun, news or gossip? In the case of media transmission, it is the weighing of justice or injustice, good or evil. Besides, how do we do that transfer? Paul gives a nice list of points of attention: all that is true, all that is honest, all that is righteous, all that is clean, all that is sweet and all that is true. If we put that through public service broadcasting, you will understand the careful vigilance to which I refer, I assume. We are dealing here with the Constitution, which states in Article 7 (2): "The law lays down rules on radio and television. There is no prior monitoring of the content of a radio or television broadcast." Do you taste the tension: on the one hand, the power of the media, on the other hand, the law that may provide rules but cannot supervise or supervise the content? In this context, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament has included this debate on the future sustainability of the public media service. According to the bill, the public media service will soon consist of four actors: the NPO, the broadcasters, the NOS and the NTR. The last three are responsible for producing the media supply. The NPO places the media offerings of the three other actors. In other words, she takes care of programming. This last heavy task comes with the NPO, partly because it is said that broadcasters would only have 3.5 million members, while the Netherlands has about 17 million people. As far as I'm concerned, that comparison is completely flawed. Isn't it much more realistic to look at, for example, the number of households? Is it not strange that 3.5 million members of the broadcasters are not considered to be sufficient for an explicit line to the offer and that the quantitative assessment is completely abandoned? In the past, the legislator has deliberately opted for the structure of broadcasting associations, as this was seen as the most democratic organisation of public service broadcasting. Through membership, pluralism is ensured by the population and there is a direct possibility to influence the composition of public service broadcasting. Now, however, the NPO is held responsible for ensuring the pluralism of the public system. This does not fit in with the citizen's participation. Moreover, it is a misrecognisation of the role of broadcasters as strong civil society. The SGP sees this as an erosion of the system and direct influence from the State via the NPO to the public system, or at least as a major risk that even the Council of State warns against. This warning also sounds in other areas such as the expiry of broadcasting time guarantees and the NPO's task of allowing initiatives by external parties. In doing so, broadcasters are responsible for the editorial form and content of a programme, but this must be done within the framework set by the NPO, for example on budget, format, content frameworks and rights. Thus, the NPO can control the pluralism of programming and create a strong dominant position for the NPO, an institute appointed from the State. Why does the government choose the power of the NPO instead of the democratic system of broadcasters? How does the government intend to prevent a much too strong influence from being created by the NPO by over-directing? How is this compatible with the call for participation by the citizen? How does the Secretary of State view this elimination of civil society? In short, the SGP is still looking for the right balance between the responsibility of the government, the independence of the NPO, the functioning of the broadcasters and the importance of civil society. The objections mentioned here were mainly aimed at building up the public media system. However, there is also another aspect, namely the content. With this bill, the Secretary of State wants to ensure an offer that fits the pluralism of the Netherlands. In substance, he also wants to make a floor impact. From his answer, I understand that he even wants to use entertainment to make that impact, as long as it contributes to culture, education and information for the citizens of the Netherlands. In itself, that's a commendable goal, but if you do that, you have to do it right. This applies to the total package offered by the public service broadcaster. This includes advertising, for example. This also applies to the SGP that list of Paul's points of interest, as mentioned earlier. As is well known, part of the public service broadcasting is paid out of advertising money. This gives the Treasury around 200 million, a quarter of the cost of public service broadcasting. That's a lot of money, but is it normal for you to take money from people who try to destroy your own goals? Let me address this question from a concrete example. My fellow party member in the House of Representatives, Mr Van der Staaij, made a plea last week for banning the advertising of Second Love. That is now a good example of a subject that is crystal clear to everyone: a pernicious method of destroying relationships, forcing people to adultery, leaving children in total confusion, reason for breakups in relationships and divorce. In short, a stream of misery, moral, economic and interhuman. Van der Staaij's plea produced a lot of positive reactions from all parts of society. No normal person thinks this is normal, but it just happens in the public service. To put it mildly: our Secretary of State wants to offer contentful programmes, cultural, educational and informative, aimed at deepening and building our society. We see the family together on the couch watching a beautiful educational program and then suddenly the call to daddy to cheat. Or Mommy. I would prefer to ask the "human" Sander Dekker what he thinks of that, but I will keep it formal. Does the Secretary of State agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that this at least raises questions, morally, from a human point of view or from an educational point of view? Can the Secretary of State also indicate how he appreciates this type of advertising in the context of the education of our children and whether there is any insight into the damage to children who are confronted with this type of advertising and its bitter consequences? The dilemma is crystal clear. Then the question is: what to do about it? Does the Secretary of State see the possibility of translating its high objectives for public service broadcasting programmes into the advertising policy of the same public service broadcaster? That would make sense, wouldn't it? Many programmes are questioned by the SGP, but we are not alone in that. There's even the NICAM, coordinator of the Viewing Pointer. This watchpoint evaluates every program, every film and documentary, in short everything offered on the public television channel, and inserts an age indication, so-called suitable for all ages, or from 6 years, 9 years, 12 years and 16 years. In addition, there are the pictograms that indicate the reason for the opinion: violence, fear, sex, discrimination, drug and/or alcohol abuse and harsh language. Those icons are warning the citizens. Moreover, a number of programmes are not broadcast at times when the children would normally watch them. Wouldn't it be logical that this watchpoint should also be used for advertising, which is also broadcast on public broadcasting? For the SGP, this is a benchmark in today's debate. In particular, from the perspective of civil society, the SGP has great hesitations. But the content also counts. Is the Secretary of State prepared and able to continue the deepening of the programme offer as part of the public media system? If significant steps can be taken there, my group will allow this to be taken into account in its voting behaviour. I await with extraordinary interest the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u50	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I will begin by congratulating Mr Krikke. We have seen a lot of each other in committee, so I can actually say that I have once again enjoyed a contribution from her side. But you can't, because this was her maiden speech. I look forward to moving forward with her, for example for a strong system for regional broadcasting. "The system is laid in the hands of society and emerging organisations, allowing as many opinions as possible to enter the living rooms," said the Minister for Culture, Recreation and Social Work, Ms Marga Klompé, in the course of the discussion of the Broadcasting Act in 1967. The public order opened. Times have changed, but the desire for a pluralistic, independent, functioning and future-proof public broadcasting remains. The great value of public service broadcasting, that all the sounds of society can sound, that we take note of each other's thoughts and deepest motives, that the underlying values are shared, that great value the Christian Union holds today. It strengthens society. The proposal before us is designed to put the house of public service broadcasting in order so that it can withstand the tense spirit of the next decade and has an even greater reach. My group does not think that this is the wrong objective in itself, but has reservations about the problem analysis which is the result of this legislative proposal, and has also ensured that the solutions chosen and the side effects of this legislative proposal ultimately threaten the basis of acceptance, pluralism and independence. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the problem analysis and then a weighting of the legislative proposal. Two pillars are the basis of this proposal: the changing media landscape and the reach of certain target groups. The Secretary of State refers to the opinion of the Council of Culture. But the Christian Union lacks a deeper analysis of the difficulties in current legislation in the changing media landscape. Maybe that's because you don't reach young people through NPO channels at all, but through Netflix or YouTube, or that young people don't even watch TV anymore. If the problem is not sharp, but only the trend is mentioned, there is the danger that a quick solution will not actually prove to be a solution. With regard to the desire for improved coverage, the Christian Union notes that an in-depth analysis is limited to the figures of viewers who simply turn on their TV. But for On Demand and Broadcast Missed the analysis is only quantitative and limited to a week after the broadcast. With how much certainty can you make statements about the range? Or about the new objectives? Moreover, in the end it is not the ratings that dictate the system. Quality, deepening, impact in society by talking about underlying values, that must be a guiding principle. If ratings only determine the direction, the added value of public service broadcasting has quickly disappeared. The pillars of the legislative proposal are therefore shaky, the problem analysis should have been better. I'd like a response. Having said that, I come to the content of the bill. For the Christian Union, three principles are particularly important in the weighing of this bill. We have already mentioned them to the Secretary of State at the last step he took to reconstruct the Media Act. These principles are, first of all, a strong position of broadcasting organisations as member organisations with an influence on programming. Furthermore, a modest role of the NPO in the programming and allocation of transmission time. Finally, the room for philosophical input. The Christian Union attaches great importance to the strong position of broadcasting associations. There are 3.5 million households. What Dutch institute has such support, is such a robust bastion of collective opinion formation and expression? The current legislative proposal and the problem analysis imply that broadcasting organisations mainly serve their own constituents. Between the lines one could taste that they are considered obsolete relics. This does not do justice to the job concept and programmes that are being created. Too often in the cabinet I miss the appreciation for the commitment and conviction of broadcasting organizations to make meaningful programmes, programmes that appeal to society in the broadest sense. They make the broadcasting organizations. How does the cabinet view the broadcasting organizations? At the heart of the order or as a closing case? Is this bill up to more or less? The Christian Union does not want to participate in breaking down the heart of the order. The Dutch public broadcaster is unique and it performs well. Anyone who prepares the state of Dutch public service broadcasting must note that he performs excellently against an average budget compared to other countries. Also when it comes to the coverage of the different groups, public service broadcasting is doing well. Where individualisation hinders the meeting between different groups in society, public service broadcasting remains binding. He contributes that we learn of each other and of each other's deepest beliefs, that we give each other space and talk about why. The philosophical media offer is an integral part of the public media mission. The deepest beliefs deserve not only a place with programmes on the edge of broadcasting times and media channels, but also a strong part. I'd like a clear confirmation from the Secretary of State. The current legislative proposal is not based on that force, but it seeks the solution in a stronger NPO and the arrival of outside producers. It will be up to the NPO to reach that wider range through outside producers if necessary. This bill even talks about public involvement to be organised by the NPO. What is the ultimate goal of the government, but also of political parties that are enthusiastic about this? Some kind of state-owned broadcasting organization, or a fully-fledged media organisation in policy language? My group rejects both statistical and marketing. Does the Secretary of State do the same? Does he prevent the NPO from getting more and more excited, with the heart, or so you want the soul of the public service broadcaster that its broadcasters themselves are slowly getting out of the picture, or would he not find that a problem? It must continue to make sense to become a member of a broadcaster. According to the Secretary of State, what added value will the membership of a broadcaster have? How does this proposal contribute to strong broadcasting organisations and is it enthusiastic about potential new entrants? I would like the Secretary of State's view and a convinced yes, that the core of the Dutch public broadcasting is solid broadcasting associations. And that also in a new concession period that should be the starting point. Moreover, according to my group, public interest is a healthy media education of the new generation. The decline in TV-watching time among young people is rapid, writes the Secretary of State. That's gotta be better. At the same time, the current number of minutes a young person watches TV today is still above national health advice. So what's a success? How can the Secretary of State be concerned about the screen time of young people and encourage a lot of TV in the other role? I like to hear it. Our second weighting point is a modest role for the NPO. That wrings. Let me start with a simple question. Where exactly does the Secretary of State place the NPO in the order? At the front and at the content, at the back of the productions or actually everywhere? Determinants who would explain that have not worked out in the law. The Council of State is very critical of this, even with references to constitutional provisions. I therefore share the questions that the CDA asked earlier. My group is suspicious of the fact that the interpretation of the new legal provisions has subsequently been changed. Take the order power. If a broadcaster acts as a co-producer with an external party, the concession policy plan states that broadcasters can adapt the substantive frameworks and that approval of the NPO is necessary for the elaboration. But the Secretary of State writes in response that any change must be made directly to the NPO for approval. "Directly." What is it now? I would like to be clear and I would like to have the promise that negotiations will not go backwards after we have made agreements, because that is how we experience it. There were examples of NPO interference with the content. How is it prevented that the assessment of whether a program proposal fits into a genre or network profile is stretched to an assessment of its content? Which elements determine whether a proposal is satisfactory? How does this relate to the freedom enjoyed by broadcasters as regards the form and content of the programme? Is the NPO judgment binding? What are the checks-and-balances? Retention and modesty is the norm, more than that requires explanation. That principle must be the starting point. Does the Secretary of State confirm that? The Christian Union really finds Article 2.88 Media Act the starting point here. That shouldn't be an empty shell. Does the Secretary of State guarantee a reluctant attitude of the NPO? How does Article 2.88 Media Act remain the starting point? In substance, I have the question of whether outside producers will be better off in the future. Does the current situation itself not give any more room for manoeuvre in broadcasting? The external party chooses itself, can still go to another broadcaster if the content does not prove to be a good marriage. Now there's one window: the NPO. I have already mentioned the third important weighting point: the room for reflection. I see that space confirmed in the Segers/Bisshop motion. How does the Secretary of State implement this? In addition to these points, my group sees a number of other difficulties. I'll put them down briefly. First of all, there is the concern of bureaucracy. I ask the Secretary of State how this bill discusses the piles of papers, etc. is reduced. How does this make public service broadcasting more effective? Previous speakers have already said a lot about the appointments of directors. I wholeheartedly endorse the critical questions that have been raised and look at developments with care. I would also like to hear when the exploratory research will lead to results. Isn't the financial picture of public service broadcasting being made too easy? The general picture is that Star revenue will decline. It is clear that a number of sporting events are no longer broadcast by public service broadcasting. This will have an impact on advertising revenue. This cabinet then launched a bill to liberalise online gambling. I don't have much with this bill. That won't be a surprise. The value of the broadcasting of sporting events in the Netherlands will therefore increase. I'm afraid the gambling market and commercial broadcasters can smell their odds. This is not an eye-catching perspective for public service broadcasting budgets and ratings. What is the Secretary of State's view? If it is outlined that after this bill the peace must return, what guarantees does it guarantee if income decreases? I would also like to have a clear statement on this, not only in relation to this concession period, but also in relation to the subsequent one. Several colleagues have spoken about the regional broadcasters. I agree with their concerns and the observation that this legislative proposal, because of the austerity involved, implies that it will be a austerity vehicle. We will no longer be able to assess how quality and regional autonomy are guaranteed. I hope the Secretary of State will give good answers to that later. Furthermore, I wholeheartedly support the earlier plea for Omrop Fryslân. The Christian Union sees the changes in the media landscape and considers it logical for public service broadcasting to adapt to them. A new system must also strengthen the position of broadcasting organizations, express a modest attitude of the NPO and stand firm for pluralism. Now that the problem analysis is limited, there is the impression that the freedom of broadcasters is being restricted, the NPO needs to develop in the guise of an increasingly active media organisation and there is a discussion on the appointment policy, the Christian Union Group very much doubts whether this bill strengthens the system. My group will therefore listen carefully to the answers of the Secretary of State. She always does, of course, but in this she will weigh it very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u51	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, too, I should like to congratulate Mrs Krikke on her captivating maiden speech. This will certainly lead to debate in the second term, I predict. "Just take a look at the link on my Twitter message, then you can click on the YouTube movie from Sunday with Lubach. My own movie is also in the cloud, but then you need to log in through the family account." Less than a few years ago, such a sentence would have been abracadabra for most of us, including myself. Now it could just be a piece from an e-mail from one of my young children, a message that no one is really surprised about anymore. Internet and online developments are rapidly changing our language, our communication and our behaviour, even here in this house. Last week, six years ago, Steve Jobs presented the iPad. You and I probably didn't suspect at that time that it was introducing a radical change in the way we manage our "paper" information flow in this house today. And the consequences, of course, extend far beyond that. The tablet and smartphone are the fastest growing devices for media use. Through these devices we experience an explosion in the supply and consumption of online content, such as the Just mentioned YouTube, Twitter and numerous other commercial and social media. The five most viewed Dutch YouTube channels have received more subscribers than the five largest Dutch broadcasters within a time frame of less than three years. The media landscape is changing and we're changing with it. Hand in hand with the technological changes we see a scale increase in the mass media. According to the Media Commissioner's media monitor, in 2006 our country had 28 unique providers of newspapers, radio and TV. Now there are less than 23. Almost half of them are in foreign hands. After the merger of UPC and Ziggo, the cable market is almost 60% owned by one player: Liberty Global, a party that, like KPN, is also explicitly going to manifest itself as a provider of content through, among other things, a sports channel. Other foreign parties with deep pockets such as Netflix and HBO are trying to gain market share. National commercial TV networks are also largely owned by wealthy foreign players. Partly because of the auction policy of our own government, the commercial radio landscape is not driven by diversity of the offer, but by yield maximization. This leads to a lot of unity sausage, also in the digital ether. Due to recent acquisitions, the largest stations Radio 538 and Sky Radio come together with some smaller ones in one hand. Here too, the scale increase continues. At the same time, the editions of newspapers are decreasing, mostly in the region, and regional broadcasting is losing market share. These are just some developments in the media landscape that public broadcasting as an important carrier of social values needs to find an answer to. The members of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are therefore not among the people who are wondering whether there really is a problem that will require a new Media Act. If there is no such problem, at least we think it wise not to wait until there is an insoluble problem, but to anticipate and develop with what is happening in the media. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that a good independent and not commercial or politically driven broadcasting is of great value to Dutch society. In this sense, it considers it wise that there should be a Media Act that allows public service broadcasting to remain an important player. A wide range, moving with the viewer and listener, responding to changing media usage, being recognizable at youth sites: if the new Media Act makes that possible, then the GroenLinks fraction is for those parts. She also considers the focus on information, education and culture to be positive, provided that entertainment is not handled too crampedly. Public service broadcasting belongs to everyone. Therefore, low-threshold programs are also needed to captivate and bind viewers and listeners without making entertainment and ratings a primary goal. Wherever my group is generally able to agree in important parts of the present law, it is also concerned, very concerned. I'll tell you more about that. As far as our group is concerned, public service broadcasting plays an important role. He binds and connects, is the reflection of a multicolored society, and offers people of different views a window up and a platform to the world. My group is in favour of a public system in which people recognise themselves and which allows them to broaden their eyes. Public service broadcasting must represent values such as openness, accessibility, versatility, solidarity, transparency and democracy. Sending on market share and on viewing and listening figures, as is already happening and may not be less, does not promote these values. Public service broadcasting must continue to contribute independently of commercial and political interests. The people who live and stay in the Netherlands are part of an open society, in which the freedom to move and express yourself is a great asset. A society that needs to give a lot of space to everyone's beliefs and beliefs. Public service broadcasting is a mirror and a platform for that. From that perspective, we assess the order and effects of the new Media Act. Our concerns are mainly about independence, accessibility and diversity. Some of these concerns are not from today or yesterday, but have been manifest for a long time. As far as we are concerned, the new law also offers the opportunity to reverse the long-standing practice of increasing public interference with public service broadcasting. With the abolition in 2000 of the television and listening money, which still exists in France and Germany, the tendency of politics to interfere with broadcasting seems to increase. Let me give you a few examples. If a Prime Minister says that the Lingo programme should stay, you can take it off with a wink. Nobody looks up to questions by MPs about the content of programs anymore. That's more troubling. In 2011 the House of Representatives went over the edge by adopting a motion that prescribed which music had to be played on Radio 2. Just to remind you: VVD, PVV, CDA, SP and SGP supported that motion. MEPs must also be cautious in their assessment of the content of broadcasting programming. In my group's view, a real structural problem lies in the formal appointment of supervisors and directors to public service broadcasting. That's not new either. Following the National Public Broadcasting Organisational Structure Review Act in November 1997, D66 Secretary of State Nuis D66'er Wolffensperger appointed President of the NOS. In 2003, CDA Minister Van der Hoeven approved the appointment of CDA-er Harm Bruins Slot as chairman of the now formed board of directors of the NPO. The happy exception in the list is the agreement to the appointment of the current chairman of the board in 2008. How much that is the exception, we see if we go back a little further in time. Under a previous Media Act in 1994 the structure was still different at that time, PvdA director Van der Louw became chairman of the NOS; that was at a time when the Ministry of OCW was composed purely of PvdA executives. Of course, this does not mean anything about the qualities and integrity of the persons concerned. However, we are dealing here with a pattern that my group wants to get rid of, all the more so because it has not been any different during this cabinet period. This VVD Secretary of State appointed three Supervisory Board presidents at NOS, NTR and recently NPO. In any case, two of them are members of the party in public. Let me put it this way: we no longer want to tie the cat to Polish bacon. The new Media Act is a good time to put an end to this formal practice of appointments. My group wants to cut the links between politics, NPO and task organisations in supervision and administration completely. The research proposed by the Secretary of State is a good step, but not yet a sufficient step, in the right direction. We ask the cabinet to give us a commitment to take concrete steps to make these appointments independent. Let me be clear: the State Secretary's position on this issue will play a major role in our final judgment. As far as our group is concerned, it is important that public service broadcasting should reflect society. Members' broadcasters are as usual and offer an important platform for this. At the same time, we note with the cabinet that the current broadcasters represent about one third of society. The question to the Secretary of State is how he sees it that the new law will lead to a widening of representativeness. Is that what the external producers are going to do? Will the NPO take initiatives to reach other target groups? Now that the NPO is given a steering role, we take it for granted that the NPO is also given the task of guiding diversity in programming, both in the framework role for the networks and channels, as well as in its own organisation. We would like to hear how the cabinet sees it and how the NPO will account for it in the future. Well, we do have some suggestions. The current supervisory board, like the previous one, is functionally diverse, but social diversification does not go beyond a positive male-female relationship. In itself beautiful, but also for this: not enough. We want more variety in the future, including in age and cultural background. For the sake of clarity, we do want to tighten up the criteria, but not as the government itself designates the dolls. Does the Secretary of State also see opportunities to further ensure diversity at the NPO, for example by installing a wide-ranging customer panel that can advise the NPO administration on how society is represented in the public system? I'd like to get a reaction to this. In many of the responses we received from the broadcasters to this bill, the steering role of the NPO as an administrative body on the content of the programming is felt to be inconvenient. Many groups have already pointed this out. The legal advice of Stibbe requested by Omroep MAX, in conjunction with the Minister's right to appoint, conflicts with Article 7 of the Constitution and Article 10 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State precisely why Stibbe is wrong and why the broadcasters see ghosts. For us, this is also crucial for the assessment of this bill. My group is making the issue even wider. Even if acting on the basis of the new law of the NPO remains within the framework of the Constitution and the ECHR, we want sound checks-and-balances between NPO, broadcasters and producers in their wake. Can the Secretary of State state state once again clearly how these checks-and-balances are regulated in law and in what way broadcasters or broadcasters are regulated? are producers likely to object? We are asking for this, in particular, because we do not want public service broadcasting to be crippled by the fact that conflicts are the only way to go to court. That seems to us to be an undesirable and unworkable situation. Also from the regional broadcasters we are very concerned about editorial independence after the formation of the RPO. A strong editorial statute for the cooperating regional broadcasters seems to us to be necessary. The editorial independence cannot be separated from the savings of 17 million. Technical cooperation and cutting in the overhead should yield that amount. We share the concern of the editors that a technical task to work exclusively with camiologists in future can affect the content and quality of the work. In our view, there will soon be a great responsibility on the part of the RPO administration to ensure the quality of regional journalism even in the case of more limited resources. This is, after all, very important for our democracy in the changing media field outlined. It should also be possible for provincial and municipal authorities to be democratically controlled by an independent press accessible to the local public. For us, this is one of the important values to which we measure the order. This also applies to local broadcasting in many places, especially where the market is failing. Even more so than in national newspapers, we see that regional and local newspapers are no longer able to reach the reader and that the market share of regional broadcasters is falling. Especially in smaller municipalities, there is hardly any more a daily newspaper to follow even the meetings of the city council. From the system responsibility of the Empire for public service broadcasting as a whole, we ask the cabinet for a few things. First of all, we ask for a flexible transitional regime for the tasks of regional broadcasters because we are a little late in the journey, and a generous friction cost regime. Local broadcasters seem to be completely out of the picture, while concerns about their role in the functioning of local democracy are also high. Can the Secretary of State promise to present proposals during this period of government to improve the acceptance of local broadcasters through his system of responsibility in consultation with local authorities? My group is itself thinking of promoting quality improvement through cooperation at local level and making more binding agreements with municipalities on the financial contributions to local broadcasting. We would also like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this. Our group is not opposed to legally anchoring the possibilities of opening up half of the programme budget to independent producers. We believe that they should cooperate with broadcasters. However, we would regret it if only large production companies, which are often in foreign hands, were to dominate the market. We reject this method of scaling up. That is why we ask the Secretary of State for a small producer scheme. We propose that at least 20% of the available budget for outside producers should be earmarked for programme proposals by small independent producers with a demonstrable affinity with social developments in Dutch society. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Independence, accessibility, diversity and connection are key values for public service broadcasting in our multicoloured democracy. In a changing media landscape, we recognise the need to keep public broadcasting future-proof, at national, regional and local level. That link to Sunday with Lubach I want to be able to find without that reference of my many media-wise offspring. In many areas, however, we still have important questions for the cabinet. They focus on ensuring independence and diversity. We would like to know how the Secretary of State can guarantee it sustainably. The answers will determine our final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u52	First of all, I say to Mr Lintmeijer that they are certainly not a'media guide' but perhaps more'media' than he is. Mr. Chairman. This Secretary of State was 14 years old when RTL-Véronique began broadcasting on Dutch television. We had turbulent years before this station was allowed on Dutch TV. The Secretary of State's TV history is therefore fundamentally different from mine. We had the luxury of a high antenna at home, so that besides Holland 1 and Holland 2 we could also receive the three German channels, as well as in the right weather conditions................................................................................................................................................................. My father, once city councilman for the VVD, abhorred the arrival of the cable. He said, "The government's gonna decide what I can see." The same government sold the cable and now commercial parties determine what we are allowed to see. As a young child, I went to the United States. I remember how my brother and I almost cheered that we could watch TV all night. There was a lot of Bonanza on TV. But there were also those annoying commercials all the time, which didn't make me a fan of watching commercial television as a young child. There was too much advertising. That was in 1979. Three years later, Pink Floyd sang: "Got Thirteen Channels of [peep] on the T.V. to choose from." That "[peep]" is also a wink to the PVV. Thirteen, 13 transmitters only. We're way over that number by now. The Netherlands 1, 2 and 3 together form only a narrow part of what is in total. I mean, from what's on TV in total. The new challenge is long overdue. Between me and the Secretary of State is half a generation, but the next generation grows almost without TV, but with the tablet. When we talk about the role of public service broadcasting throughout the media landscape, this cannot and must not be ignored. I told you at the hearing, my kids don't watch television anymore, they'll watch it later. Does this platform no longer have any value for our target group? Of course, there is that value for that target group as well. It is now even there for a larger group, the group of people who want to watch not only On Demand but also for the present generation. We are talking about live shows, game series, sports broadcasts, in short everything in which the actuality and the group feeling play a role. For all the rest, I'll just say it as I think it is. We're just playing a rearguard fight here. This raises the question of whether public service broadcasting should be trendetter, trend follower or late trend follower. Public service broadcasting is made with public money. The Secretary of State has said the following about this broadcasting: "The programmes of the public broadcasters must matter, so that it can be justified why it is made with public money. The power of public service broadcasting is that they create programs that would not otherwise be created. They're not there to do over what you see coming by the commercials." There are a number of premises in this. The first is: commercial broadcasters make programs that do not matter. That's an interesting statement for a VVD Secretary of State. Another condition is that a programme of public service broadcasting should not be made by other broadcasters: commercial broadcasters. And: a programme of public service broadcasting must matter. That's quite a broad understanding. I'd like to say that the winner of One against 100 thinks the show matters. Or that 9 million viewers also matter. However, the Secretary of State says: I prefer to see a beautiful public programme with a little less viewers that meets that public value, than a programme without any public value but with huge ratings. This is a very interesting statement. First of all, the Secretary of State says that a wonderful programme created by public service broadcasting should not necessarily be about the ratings. By the way, he thinks I am very much on his side on this point. Looking figures alone should not be a reason to do anything or not to do anything. However, the Secretary of State says something else that he does not point out. He's talking about "public values." However, he does not indicate what those public values are. However, it is clear from the text that in any case viewing rate shots with commercial aspects cannot have public value. There are game shows that attract few viewers. Do they have public value? Is this true? Can the Secretary of State tell me exactly what these public values are? It seems that the Secretary of State's argument to change public service broadcasting so drastically is motivated by his own public values. Public service broadcasting is public: from all of us. I am still from the generation who sat in front of the pipe with the parents on the weekends and watched, indeed, Fred Oster or Mies Bouwman. Have a bite, drink with it: really nice. But it's also past tense. I ask the Secretary of State to disregard his own values, but I must do so myself. Arjen Lubach there he is again; he was often quoted today, a few weeks ago he explained it very well on TV. This guy's getting some great teaching material! He said anecdotal reasons are misguided. But can't a public value be that an older generation can look at old-fashioned programs, such as a Shepherd's Dog's Diary or Swiebertje? Or does public service broadcasting have to be a flashy, innovative broadcaster? Is that what the Secretary of State wants? I go to the Secretary of State's last quote: 'We want to see in practice that the broadcasting becomes different and that the overlap with commercial broadcasting becomes less'. Oh, that's a very clear statement! So if commercial broadcasting is a "Who is the Mol?"-like program will be broadcast, that program should disappear on the public transmitter. And the news can actually go away, because so do the commercial broadcasters. They also do travel programs and cooking programs. And what is the educational value of Maestro? What is the cost of all these broadcasting rights for sports broadcasting? Surely that can be done to the commercials, can't it? I would like to receive statements from the Secretary of State. The power of the associations has already declined considerably in media country. That trial has already been initiated by the Secretary of State. There are parties who question the legitimacy of these associations. Be a ten-year-old? Well, that's easy. It used to be: of course you're a member, otherwise you don't have a newspaper. A ten-tenth member may not yield much in the greenhouse, but being a ten-tenth member is and remains an adhesion statement. I don't think the comparison with YouTube channels is entirely justified: you can subscribe for free on YouTube, but becoming a ten-tone member will cost you a ten-tone. People don't join a network because it only costs a tenner, but they do because they want to support it and it only costs a tenner. The fact is that there are still people who like to join these associations and that number is increasing. It has already been said today: there are some 3.5 million people on a broadcasting network, against the 300 000 who are members of a political party. So we are talking about a serious number of members, people who voted on the offer of a specific association. If the Secretary of State does not want his ratings to be leading, then only those associations are the compass on which he can sail. One taxpayer wants the money to be spent on qualitative programmes, while the other wants it to be spent on fun programmes. The latter group is now being banned from commercial broadcasting, which means that it has to pay double. Our system is also unique. The countries around us have state broadcasters and commercial broadcasters. Our broadcasters are unique. They also say something about our history. It is 50 years since the TROS started this year. He is now the largest family in the Netherlands. Four years later, the EO appeared. They both turned out to be keepers. At the same time we also have the old, pre-war associations VPRO, VARA, KRO, NCRV and AVRO, as well as the new lottery tickets to the tribe BNN, WNL and PowNed. So it doesn't seem to be poured into concrete. It's moving. Our unique order connects transmission time not only to ratings but also to membership numbers. Spectacular participation, which is quite special in Europe. My group is in favour of this mix, which has worked well for years, and does not believe that the present system change will contribute to making public service broadcasting future-proof. It's gonna take a lot more than that. Then I also mean the simple reference to Koefnoen after watching Lubach online, as Mr Hagoort suggested, or to broadcasting YouTubers on TV. Those comments at the hearing showed that these gentlemen did not understand any of it. If these structural changes could lead to future-proof broadcasting, then it is certainly not with these gentlemen. Like I said, the discussion is a rear-guard fight. As progressive as the Secretary of State now thinks he is, he's pointing his arrows behind him while the discussion should go forward. Why doesn't the Secretary of State handle the law debate? How can it not be that everything that makes public service broadcasting can be viewed for free on the Internet? Here too, the adage that the taxpayer has already paid for it applies. It should therefore be available to the public, but the NPO refuses to have broadcast material on YouTube; we just heard it. Public service broadcasting makes the mistake that the record companies have also made. Today's younger viewer is not looking for NPO 1, NPO Zapp, NPO News or NPO - I know much-what-I-all-on-YouTube-to-channels-can-find, but to the NPO. The channels are not a strong brand. The associations are right. For example, we are looking for the canal of the VPRO, because there Arjen Lubach can be seen. YouTubers offer what the youth wants, in all forms: education, information and entertainment. Moreover, the independence of this information is under enormous pressure. What YouTubers are saying is really taken for granted today. That means that they now have a decent income. This influence is worrying and public service broadcasting has no answer to it either. He will not get an answer to that in this form either, because just like Netflix, the adage "anytime, anyplace, anywhere" applies. It's my pleasure to watch an episode of Mr. Clayton. Robot, but the rest of the episodes are on a recording at my house, because I really don't have time to watch every Wednesday. When I do, I want to be able to enjoy it all night long, binge as it's called. Contrary to what the Secretary of State thinks, it's not the programs that make the viewer drop out. It's because of the way it's offered. What is the answer of the Secretary of State to this public question? Finally, I would like to mention the greatest value of our public service broadcasting, the freedom of programming. That is a difficult split, because we want the diversity of the offer to remain intact. "Audience" means that there must be an offer for all groups in our society. This means that the government must set frameworks, as we have done in the past. This does not mean that the government may influence the programmes, let alone determine form and content. That value seems to be increasingly forgotten. That is understandable in itself, because the culture of the government is increasingly one of the spindoctors, rather than substantive considerations. The number of press officers is rising, while the number of journalists is falling. That's worrying. I'll come back to this later. The power of politics is getting very close to political broadcasting and there is a lot of fuss about that. That's not wrong. The Secretary of State does not make it any better either, by indirectly or indirectly naming all kinds of VVDs for the open vacancies. Can the Secretary of State again explain to us why the appointment of the chairman of the UWV is not against the rules of the law or the statutes? It states that the President cannot hold any other post which is classified under a minister. The Secretary of State says that the role of the NPO does not change substantially. The NPO will not review the content and can only take the initiative to create an external producer's own programme. In that case, the NPO can also determine the content. As far as finance is concerned, too, the NPO is now going to send. Where he had previously to promote efficiency, he is now going to realize it. I'm trying to understand that. The NPO is therefore there for the coordination, the implementation of programming, the making of savings and the self-initiation of programmes, but it has no substantive influence. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State if this is true. Is he only doing this because the necessary changes can be made in this way? I read in the reply of the Secretary of State that this innovation will never come from the broadcasters. Is this indeed the opinion of the Secretary of State? If so, why does he think the NPO will come up with change? I would like to have an explanation of that. The Secretary of State also says that the NPO has only a coordinating role in the implementation of a programme, in order to arrive at a well-balanced offer. The content comes from the broadcasters. They will then work in the dynamic game with the station coordinators, the genre coordinators and the NPO to arrive at a well-balanced offer. The crux of this story is the question of who has the decisive voice. That's the NPO, isn't it? If he says "well this program but not that presenter," then by definition he's working on the content? The same goes for "well, that interview but not with that guy." That would compromise journalistic independence, wouldn't it? I would like to hear the Secretary of State's view on this. It is clear that the role of the NPO does not remain the same. The impact of the NPO on programming is increasing. This increasing role does not fit in with the system of appointments of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. The political influence will then be far too close to public service broadcasting. Both the concessions of public service broadcasting and the individual recognitions of broadcasting associations are decisions of the State Secretary. He has to seek advice, but ultimately it remains his decision. The Commission for the Media decides on licences for commercial broadcasters. The members of this supervisor are also appointed by the political authorities through a non-transparent procedure. The Secretary of State has undertaken to monitor the entire system of appointments in the media and to make it more transparent. We welcome this step, but before it has happened, our group has great difficulty in agreeing to these changes now. The Secretary of State doesn't have the appearance either. He makes these commitments to the First Chamber when he could have started this process a long time ago. The Secretary of State has made quite a few firm statements in recent years. I come to my last topic: the regional broadcasters. During the hearing, ROOS made a flaming argument about the "if you can't beat them, join them" approach. Based on the idea that you better decide where to cut yourself, ROOS proposes solutions that everyone knows are not going to do. The broadcasters themselves fear with great fear. ROOS' plans also threaten to affect regional broadcasters deeply. The regional media have an excellent role to play in democratic control, but journalists are now also becoming cameramen or women and editors. By definition, that means less time for their journalistic task. This weekend I went to the impressive film Spotlight, about a team that can work on a story for months without having to meet production requirements. This film teaches us that sometimes an outsider is needed to open the eyes, and that this should be possible without the pressure of commerce. Good journalism needs time and guts. At a time when a mayor is announcing an emergency regulation so that there is no access for journalists and when ministers are advised that unfairly treated staff should not seek out the media, it is necessary to strengthen the journalistic task, not weaken it. The cuts that are now being made cannot take place without affecting editorial staff. Having said that, my group also knows that these cuts are a fact. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to suspend the date of 1 January so that regional broadcasters have time to carry out their reforms wisely. I'm rounding up. The main reason given by this State Secretary for the legislative amendment is that he believes that public service broadcasting is now not future-proof. At the same time, there are no revolutionary changes in the proposal, but only the roles of the NPO and the RPO are changed on balance. I have looked at the legal text: the only reference to the new media channels is the addition of a catch-up channel, but even before that the same old restrictions are mentioned. This law is not going to make public service broadcasting future-proof at all. He brings broadcasting closer to politics and breaks down regional broadcasting. The Secretary of State must come up with a very good story if my group is to be enthusiastic about this law. That is why I await his reply with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u53	Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would also like to congratulate my colleague Pauline Krikke on her maiden speech in this house. Also in the case of the Media Act paper appears to be very patient again. What is presented in simple terms in the terminology of the law as an amendment to the Media Act 2008, is in fact a major change in the structure and functioning of Dutch public service broadcasting. In its opinion, after seven years of Media Act, the Council of State states that it understands the aim "to achieve modernisation," i.e. to adapt to the present time. But the Secretary of State is already talking about making the public media service "future-proof" in the preamble to the bill. The Council of State considers that modernisation requires more and better legislation than the Secretary of State now proposes. The Secretary of State believes that his proposal offers the best legislation for future stability. The written examination of the legislative proposal in this Chamber has already shown that this satisfaction with our own work has in any case raised a great many questions and doubts. The further statement of reply, 65 pages long, has not yet been able to remove that inconvenience and the doubt. With just soothing mantras on article 2.88 of the Media Act, we can't get there. The meeting on 8 December in this Chamber with experts and stakeholders led to the feeling of being still confused by television, maybe on a higher level and, hopefully, more important things. It may not be a coincidence that these words were first spoken in the first year that the Netherlands had television, in 1951. In fact, media legislation always gives rise to a debate on television, because radio and that sort of thing is not really being discussed at all anymore. But talking about television is actually not right anymore, because an important reason why we are faced with a change in the law is the rapid change in the media landscape. Apart from the neatly raked garden of the hidden Dutch broadcasting system, we now not only have the rougher world of commercial channels, but we are also invited to enter the most dangerous roads in the world, even if only because you can meet Bram Moszkowicz and Wibi Soerjadi, dangerous roads, routes to the new media. It is especially young people who are watching less and less television, which has been said more and more today and are increasingly searching for their content on iPad and iPhone. Streaming services such as Netflix have taken a huge flight in a short time, but that also applies to what the likes of vloggers like Enzo Knol don't look like a family...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u54	Well, if he's a member of the family association, then he's family, but otherwise he's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u55	Okay. My father used to say in such a case: hopefully not... this considering what is daily messed up on YouTube. But keep in mind that they already have over two million subscribers and half a billion views. Unlike the commercial channels, the YouTubers are not competitors of the public service broadcasting and are no longer competitors of the commercial channels. It's really a whole new way of looking, producing and communicating, in an informal way, all day long and yes, the Secretary of State will recognize the words "common," "recognizable," "open," "multiform" and "creative." All concepts that the Secretary of State would like to see more applicable to the national public media service with the amendment of the Media Act. That is good, but will it really lead to the new attraction the Secretary of State wants to attract especially young people? How does he look at the very few hopeful analyses in this area in the latest Media Monitor? The Secretary of State wants to achieve the future stability of the public media service through a change in the governance of public service broadcasting. The most important article in the legislative proposal is therefore Article 2.2, which provides for a change of the NPO from a cooperation and coordination body to a steering and cooperation body. It has been noted many times: the board of the NPO is in fact given control over the entire range of public service broadcasting. The direction is there, the producers are selected there, the resources are allocated to a large extent there, the programme choices are prepared there and the placement of the media supply on the various channels is determined there. It is no coincidence that in changing terminology there is first control and then cooperation, reinforced by the additions: 'giving control' and 'promoting cooperation'. It means that others, especially broadcasters, are directed by the board of directors of the NPO to cooperate with others, especially external producers. This no longer refers to the divisional policy of traditional broadcasting organisations and even to the distribution and management policy already laid down in the 2008 Media Act. It has now become a real ruler-and-divide: the NPO does not send itself out "not yet," you almost say "but you decide who, what, where, when and why may broadcast, and therefore also who may not. During the examination of the bill in the Lower House, D66 expressed disappointment at the fact that the State Secretary now places power in one hand, but at the same time allows the system of the hidden broadcasters to exist and does not really break the order. A step in the right direction, was said then, but still far from the end point that the Secretary of State himself put so bravely earlier in that ominous meeting on the Veronica ship. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what steps, in his opinion, need to be taken after this change of law, by himself or his successors, in order to achieve a genuinely open order in the Netherlands. Does the Secretary of State also envisage examples from abroad or models that he would like to see become reality here, taking into account, of course, the rapid changes in the entire media landscape? The legislative proposal, which has become clear at the expert meeting......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They see the design as a new and very big step in the direction of an erosion of the position and role of the associations. Materially they remain the providers, but they are formally controlled by the NPO when it comes to the offer that the genre coordinators will determine for an important part. We now know that the station coordinators must make way for genre coordinators in the long term. I don't think that's gonna happen without a hit or a hit. What if you've always done this? When a new coordinator arrives, so that you are on the way out, that is not really conducive to a pleasant cooperation. But I'm also looking at the viewers, the users of the services. Why would people still want to be a paying member of a broadcaster when it is less and less likely to develop and promote its own identity? That sounds like a rhetorical question, but I ask the Secretary of State to offer his réflexion in this Chamber on this subject. The historic honesty still warrants to point out that even in this century new broadcasting associations such as BNN and MAX have been successful in gaining new support. Those are things to think about before we change the system even further. The question is, what time is the right time? The Dutch public broadcaster is qualitatively good, creative and competitive. The program offer is appreciated and very well viewed and listened to. NPO 1 is still the best-watched transmitter. In the Netherlands there are as many hours as in Germany or England, but those hours must be filled with much less money per hour. The interesting thing is that this also works, even in competition with the commercial channels, which are largely owned in the Netherlands by the Finnish Sanoma and especially the German Bertelsmann, in terms of turnover twenty times the public broadcasting of the Netherlands, in terms of ownership and control controlled by one family, the Mohn family from Gütersloh. You could say: the other NPO of the Netherlands. If you've ever been to Gütersloh, you don't want to be found dead. Let me put it this way. Commercially, this inevitably means that programme policy is determined by the principle of the highest yield at the lowest cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u56	Is it true that Mr Schnabel said that public service broadcasting is competitive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u57	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u58	How, then, is it possible that the practice proves that the public service broadcaster loses market share and loses viewers, precisely to commercial broadcasters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u59	Look at the numbers. Mr Kops has also seen it in the Media Monitor. NPO 1 is the first channel. RTL is the second, then NPO 2 and NPO 3. One of the things that is historically important in this respect is that especially in the 1990s, when commercial broadcasters quickly gained ground in the Netherlands, the public broadcasters managed to win back an important part of the field. That was indeed in competition with the commercial broadcasters. The picture of commercial on the one hand and public on the other hand, however, appears to be less accurate than is often thought. However, commerciality means that the programme policy of these broadcasters is determined by the principle of the highest yield, thanks to advertising, at the lowest cost. Programs and formats that do not or no longer comply with them are simply said goodbye. That really is a big difference from the task and the way in which public service broadcasting works. If the Secretary of State finds that public broadcasting reaches young people, low-skilled and ethnic minorities less than other groups, it is less due to public broadcasting than to the presence of new media, commercially driven entertainment and satellite dishes. It is a misunderstanding to think that these target groups can be better achieved with the offer that the Secretary of State has in mind: not with entertainment or sport, but with news, culture, information and "high-quality" drama. It is also a misunderstanding to think that entertainment can be used to tempt viewers to keep looking at the more difficult offer. The remote control and the multitude of channels has created a zap culture that has really dealt with this type of paternalism for a long time. The only criteria for the provision of public service broadcasting should be quality, diversity, specificity and pluralism. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? He should also look at the VRT, the public media service of the Flemish Community. In its objectives it explicitly includes relaxation and sport. The VRT does this with the idea that the introduction of these objectives will create added value in terms of social cohesion, identity and participation. In this way, the aim is to achieve a balanced media offer in Flanders. The question is: are the Belgians doing better in this respect than we are? I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at that. On the basis of the explanatory notes and replies to this draft law, I conclude that the State Secretary in the amendment to the Media Act 2008 avoids talking about what in good Dutch is called "the elephant in the room." He is, however, life-size in the preamble to the text of the law. It is a matter of strengthening central management of public media services, with faster and less bureaucratic decision-making as a starting point and a more coherent offer as a result. This means less power in the broadcasting organizations and more power in the NPO. Of course, in Hilversum too, less procedures, less bureaucracy and less time is now at least paid lip service. However, the shift from the centre of gravity of many organisations to one organisation requires great care in governance and more care than the draft law now characterizes. It has been mentioned many times today: the change from coordination to direction also changes the role of the NPO. This raises questions about the extent to which this organisation is structured and staffed. Is that enough to make this change an improvement? How does the Secretary of State intend to determine whether and to what extent the intended "NPO new style" meets the requirements of the legislator? How can the lines of authority best run from politics to the NPO? "Hilversum" is the boss of the media, but isn't "The Hague" going to be the boss of "Hilversum" too much? Is it wise that it will all be one Hilversum later? For the sake of pluralism and competition, would it not be advisable to have not just one organisation with channels, but an NPO 1, an NPO 2 and an NPO 3 so that one can compete with one another? That's kind of like the German model. The Secretary of State shall be responsible for the budget, for the appointment of the Media Commissioner and for the appointment of the Supervisory and Administrative Boards of the NPO, the NTR and the NOS. The fact that so many lines come together in one hand means in a country like the Netherlands that selection committees, however independent, will not soon come up with candidates they think will be less pleasurable in 'The Hague'. It is important, however, that even the appearance of party or friendly politics is avoided. I am very much in line with what almost all my fellow Members have already said. My group would also very much like the Secretary of State to return to the right of appointment and consent with regard to at least the Supervisory Board and the Governing Board of the NPO. More power at the NPO should involve less government influence, in order to better guarantee the independence of the public media. I hope for a positive response from the Secretary of State on this point. I would add that it is almost literally what colleagues have already said that my group's final judgement on this bill will be strongly influenced by his reply. Most attention is paid to the national public media service. But the bill also deals with the redevelopment of the regional broadcasting organisation. It has often been pointed out that, particularly from Friesland, in the context of the protection of minority languages, Frisian as the second state language and the agreements and provisions of the Council of Europe, a special position is required for Frisian broadcasting. I would very much like to support that question from my party. However, I would also like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the special position of AT5, the Amsterdam local broadcaster. At present, this broadcasting does not have a regional status and is therefore not financed from the same pot. However, he has actually been able to offer more listeners and viewers than half of the Dutch provinces each with a care area of about 1.5 million inhabitants. I would like to receive the views of the Secretary of State on the future of AT5. By the time a new concession period, i.e. around 2020, will inevitably lead to a new change in the way that this Media Act is or should be amended. Perhaps the Netherlands will then have to say goodbye to a broadcasting system that almost a hundred years ago "general" wanted to start.Think of the creation of the AVRO as General Association Radio Omroep. We cannot see what changes the development of new media will bring in the next five years. However, we know that precisely because of these changes, the value of a good public media service will be even greater after 2020 than is already the case. We hope that, after what he has heard here this afternoon, the Secretary of State will be able to amend his bill so that we can agree to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u60	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u61	Mr. Chairman. I thank all Members of Parliament for their input. That input was sometimes very variable. Mr Kops claimed that I am dancing to the tune of public service broadcasting and I am actually leaving it to the old. Mr Nagel said that I am the great enemy of Hilversum and actually intend to break everything down. I think they're both wrong. Then let me say it in my own words. In my opinion, the public broadcaster tells the story of the Netherlands, in our own Dutch language. I say to the OSF and the CDA that this also happens in our own Frisian language, knowing that both groups have made comments on this. There are wonderful documentaries who look back on our common past. I don't have to mention the programs. I'm sure you know them all. There are programmes that report on the topicality of the day. That is not just the NOS Journal, which we all know, but also the Youth Journal and the current events programmes. There are programs that give a glimpse into our common culture, from the Concertgebouw Orchestra to, probably this weekend, the images of carnival below the rivers. Public service broadcasting also gives us a look at the wider world, at what is happening around us. I myself enjoyed programs like Our man in Tehran and along the borders of Turkey of Bram Vermeulen. They show with a little more depth what happens in those places in the world. This is what public service broadcasting does for everyone, in an independent and high quality way. The Dutch public service broadcasting system is unique, with broadcasters rooted in our society. Several members have commented on this, such as the CDA and the Christian Union. If you look at the broadcasters that make programmes from their missions with a large membership base, you could say: if there is something unique in the Netherlands, then it is that hybrid order of the NPO together with the broadcasting associations, which are also an intrinsic part of the whole. There are programs that surprise, inspire, make people think and cause discussion. There are programs that show something about the multicolouredness of the Netherlands, the pluralism. There is attention to different backgrounds and philosophical views. There are programs that connect at times when something can be celebrated, whether it's on King's Day or when we win a gold medal on a World Championship. This role of public service broadcasting in society may now be more topical than ever. I think public service broadcasting is very important. At the same time, I also think that something needs to change. The world is changing and the context of public service broadcasting, which I think a large part of this Chamber agrees with, is perhaps even greater and more intense. The media landscape is changing as a result of ongoing digitisation and technological development. On the one hand, our world is being made very small. Social contacts take place across national borders. On the other hand, our world is becoming huge, because from your living room and via your smartphone, the rest of the world is within reach. These developments affect our lives in many areas. For the media, and therefore for public service broadcasting, the effects of these developments are even more profound. This Chamber has made this point convincingly. Let me mention two important changes which, in my view, have major consequences. First of all, the media supply is increasing exponentially. Let me give you a few examples. Look at Netflix's hugely fast rise in the Netherlands. In a very short period of time, the number of paying subscribers, which amounts to €8 each month, has increased from 350,000 to 1.3 million. Netflix has indicated that it will develop its own content for another 600 hours in 2016. I understand people who subscribe to Netflix, because fantastic series are being made. Those people do that to look at it. When they look at Netflix, they don't look at the public service. Another example is Pathé Home. Over 800,000 people have created an account there within a few years. Sales grew by 40% in the last year. I believe it was Mrs Sent who referred to the news that the American channel PBS also announced that it would be possible to enter the Dutch market next year. This is a non-profit organization that mainly produces documentaries, broadcasts news and pays attention to culture, science and history. That is another channel, besides the existing HBO and Netflix, which offers an interesting offer to Dutch viewers. Within this growing market, which is a hugely growing amount of content, it is important that public service broadcasting remains relevant and continues to attract viewers. The second big change is the way we look. We look and listen where, when and how we like, on the train, on the couch and on the terrace. Not only do we watch and listen more traditionally on television or radio, but we do so via our smartphones, smart TVs, game consoles, iPads and laptops. If you're in a dorm these days, there's no TV there anymore. There's another way of looking at it. To illustrate it, Dutch young people under the age of 20 spend only 30% of their "video time" on traditional linear television. The rest they do in a different way. That's a huge change. If public service broadcasting does not go along with this, then we are going to lose these young generations. Make no mistake, these changes have a major impact on public service broadcasting. I noticed the figures on how much television is being watched. I believe they came out between the debate in the Lower House and the debate here. The viewing time of classical linear television appeared to have fallen for the first time in years in 2015, by almost 5%. The range of the youth channel NPO 3 has even fallen by more than 10% in recent years. Mr Nagel rightly said that we are still doing quite well in the Netherlands. He is right in that, although the figures he puts forward are the sum total of public and commercial broadcasting. It is true that the range of public service broadcasting in the Netherlands is falling. Even then, we are not doing badly, but it is a trend that is there and we must be aware of it. Mrs Bikker asked how it fits into the overall picture when you talk about the cause of the bill, the problem analysis and the young people you don't see: shouldn't you also be watching the video on demand count? The answer to that is yes. We can measure that better and better. But also recent figures from the NPO and the Stichting KijkResearch show that the decline in the range of the youth channel NPO 3 is not compensated by more on demand viewing by these young people. So there really is something going on. One thing is clear to me: if we do nothing, we are sure that public service broadcasting will be overtaken by time and by facts and loses its audience. I do not know whether in five years' time he will still fulfil the important role and role that we want him to fulfil and do at the moment. Fortunately, the NPO and the broadcasters themselves are also aware of this. It's not like we only see this at the Binnenhof and they don't know about it in Hilversum. Fortunately, there too, they are taking steps to reach their audiences and young people in other ways. For example, think of a program like AVROTROS' Brugklas, which also produces video blogs on a weekly basis, such as YouTube and is active on popular social media like Instagram. I am also thinking of major projects in which several broadcasters work together. I always like how Serious Request, 3FM and DJs from different broadcasters show that they are committed, that they want to commit to a social theme and how they can attract thousands of people, both on the radio and physically on that large square. I see that, for example, with the NOS, which not only traditionally brings the news through the Journal and via the radio, but also finds interactive ways and has one of the most popular apps. These are all steps taken by public service broadcasters to remain relevant, but the question is: is it enough? I think the answer to that is no. It is not enough to face the future with confidence. This is also reflected in the critical opinion of the Culture Council and in the further examination of the figures. I'm falling back on that advice. Public service broadcasting is now lacking sufficient strength and adaptability to respond quickly to new developments where necessary. There is still too much tension in Hilversum between individual interests and the general interest of public service broadcasting. That too is something that reduces the flexibility and the impact force. I believe that the opinion of the Culture Council talks about too much administrative competition and too little creative competition. The energy goes out to the wrong things. This means that far from reaching all the public and the programmes that are being created are not equally attractive to everyone. In the area of diversity, for example, we see that in the Netherlands women with a non-western background are poorly achieved, in addition to the fact that the reach among young people is also a matter of concern. I don't think that one by one is a good development. After all, public service broadcasting must be there for all of us. However, public service broadcasting is increasingly struggling to be visible and recognizable in the vast, changing and growing supply on the market, while its strength lies in making things and being innovative, to be at the forefront of these changes in the media landscape. The great thing about public service broadcasting is that it is not only the discipline of the market that applies, but that they can also act as pioneers in the front line at the NPO itself. I want public service broadcasting to play an equally important role in five years' time, and I am talking about the NPO and the broadcasters together. The same applies to regional broadcasters. However, there must be some change, and that is why this bill is now before us. With this bill, I want to strengthen public service broadcasting as a whole, in line with the opinion of the Culture Council. The challenge before us is to prepare public service broadcasting for the future and better match the media behaviour and needs of the public. This calls for the pooling of forces, but also for the taping of all the creative talent that the Netherlands is rich, including from programmers outside public broadcasting. After all, our country has a very strong tradition of independent producers, sometimes with a good international reputation. Then what do I have in mind with this bill? I see a public broadcaster in which pluralism increases by combining the unique power of broadcasters with an open order and even more creative competition. A public broadcaster that reaches all Dutch people with distinctive and relevant programmes, from young to old and from all backgrounds. I believe that Mr Schnabel asked how we are going to improve the reach of young people. To reach young people better also means to be present on innovative channels, to think about how one wants to do it on the Internet, how one wants to use social media. How is that possible in a way that doesn't shred the offer? How can it be done in a way that ensures that our public programmes are not thrown away on the sites of large American market players who make money from them, without investing in young talent in the Netherlands? That needs to be considered and I believe that public service broadcasting, the NPO, should play a very important role in this. Mrs Bikker asked whether or not it turns out that young people are watching too much television. I say to her: we can discuss this, but when they watch television, let's make sure they watch meaningful television too, that there's an alternative to the Disney productions that are available to a large extent and that they like those kids. We also have a fantastic tradition in the Netherlands in the field of good educational television. Youth programmes, children's programmes in their own language. It is important that they continue to be made, but also important that they continue to be viewed. Where are we gonna go? I want a public broadcaster active on all platforms, from the old-fashioned television and radio to all the digital platforms we have at our disposal. We don't know what's going to happen in the next five years, but I dare to make a bet that in five years' time, as well as five years ago, the iPad didn't exist, it will be something new that we don't know yet, but which the media will make full use of. This requires a public broadcaster that is manoeuvrable and capable of responding to it, a public broadcaster that is capable and flexible, and that operates from a single common vision. A public broadcaster that fits and does justice to the diversity in the Netherlands. I say to the Animal Party: a public broadcaster that has something to offer in addition to what the commercials have to offer, namely programmes that are made from a non-commercial point of view. A public service broadcaster that also brings news and culture to the heart of our country in the region. Mr President, that is my objective and given the importance I attach to a strong public service broadcasting, I think it is a good sign that there is political attention to this issue. We discussed this extensively in the House of Representatives. Your Chamber has also looked carefully and critically at the bill. In the meantime, I believe that the proposal, including the answer, counts almost 300 pages and that attention deserves to be paid to the subject. It is a public provision of great social significance, with a long and rich history, and also, as far as I am concerned, a challenging future. Some of the groups have challenged me to look further ahead and put this bill in context. Is this it, then? I heard Mrs Bikker ask: if we now agree to this, can we assume that we will leave it not only for this concession period but also for the coming concession period as it is? Mr Schnabel, on the other hand, said that it was just the beginning. How are you gonna go through with this? I want to give an open and honest answer to that. I believe that after this bill, public service broadcasting in the Netherlands should be given time and peace to get some things in order. We do not have to face another major change in the system in the very short term. If this bill makes it, and I hope so, then I think we will take the final step in what this cabinet is doing to modernise national public service broadcasting for the recognition period from 2016 to 2020. But then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u62	Mr. Chairman. Oh, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u63	You're gonna wait? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u64	I thought I'd get some time for a sip of coffee. I hope you'll come with your interruption soon, Mrs Bikker. But then what? I think it's very difficult to predict what the world looks like after 2020. It will also really depend on whether the public service broadcasting, the NPO and the broadcasters together, know how to meet this challenge. The hybrid system, the unique Dutch system, is worth a sweet thing to me. If we make it a success, I see no reason to say after 2020: we are throwing it over a completely different path. Then we must cherish it. However, we do not know what the world will be like in 2020 and whether further renewal will be needed. My time horizon is for this coming concession period, so I will give it to Mrs Bikker and Mr Schnabel. If we are to make this modernisation move, we must give Hilversum the time and tranquility to deal with it properly. We must also count on this to be sufficient to meet the challenges in time afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u65	I'm glad I got the Secretary of State to pronounce. I hear him first say 'this cabinet period' and later 'this concession period'. I assume he means that the rest will apply at least for this concession period. That's what I like to get confirmed. If you make a proposal to ensure the future of broadcasting, ready to respond to the challenges of the future, then a period of time up to 2020, but three and a half years in which the introduction is still largely to take place, is relatively short. What's with the lack of confidence? I assume, however, that we are adopting legislation here that gives public service broadcasting flexibility to respond to the challenges and that we are assuming the strength that exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u66	I totally agree with Mrs Bikker. I meant this concession period. This cabinet period has another year to go. This is a major structural change. Then you have to give them time to show that it can work. In other sectors, too, we sometimes see that one change is following the other far too quickly. That's not good either. I'd like to give Hilversum that time. I also give them the confidence to show that they can. I believe in that. We have good public service broadcasting; a number of Members have already referred to it. Compared to other countries, we get a lot of value for money. If we are able to keep that, I see no reason for a major change. However, we cannot look into a glass ball. We do not know what the world will be like by 2020. I would find it a shame to look far into the future now and say that nothing needs to change after 2020. I can't live up to that either. It will depend very much on how we do it over the next five years and how the media landscape develops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u67	In one of the previous major amendments to the Media Act, I am referring to the Media Act, which was amended under Purple II, the end of the public system was also predicted if the broadcasters did not move. Over the past 15 years, broadcasters have been moving along with the new technologies that have emerged. They must, of course, be given the opportunity to do so. I have also made a comment on this in my contribution. Are the broadcasters getting these opportunities at the moment? The Secretary of State has just outlined the perspective he wants to go to. What points he has now raised and which he believes should be dealt with by the new law cannot be achieved at the present time on the basis of the current law? Think of reaching young people, think of diversity, think of reaching other groups, think of the programme enhancement budget, with which you could do anything if you wanted to. What can't be done on the basis of the current law? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that if the broadcasters want to move along, they should also be given the opportunity to move along? I don't think they've always had it in the past few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u68	Perhaps I should mention two examples. We have fantastic broadcasters in this country, which have a very good basis in grassroots groups with members, but which are, to some extent, traditionally organised in this sense. As a result, small independent innovative makers are not always easy to find out. I think it would be beneficial for pluralism if we combined these two strengths: the strength of the traditional broadcasting associations with their huge supporters and the opening up of the system, directly towards the NPO, to make it more attractive and easier for small independent producers to use their ideas. The second example concerns the digital domain. There are certain apps, certain tools that the public service broadcaster also uses. But why don't you take Broadcast Missed? One program is on for two days, the other one is on for one year, another is on for three months and another is on for two weeks. For the voter... sorry, for the viewer there's no string to tie to it. This has to do with the fact that all independent broadcasters themselves make their own agreements on the rights they grant when purchasing and so on. That's not the most attractive option for pulling viewers to your video-on-demand. That is one of the reasons why I believe that a more central direction by the NPO, for example on the management of rights and the exploitation of those rights, has great advantages for the viewer and the listener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u69	I don't know if it was a freudian slip when the Secretary of State spoke about the voters. A few colleagues have put it forward this afternoon: what is the ultimate wish of the Secretary of State? Let's not talk about that. I am talking in particular about the support of the broadcasters, the 3.5 million members. They really know where to find their programs. If they can't find them, they'll vote with their feet. I said that this afternoon. If they do not find things right with their own organisation, their own association, their own broadcasting, then they also send out a signal. To be honest, I'm not so worried about that. I am concerned about what the Secretary of State is doing with those broadcasters in Hilversum who also want to participate in the provision of new services via Netflix, YouTube and so on. He didn't go into that. Are they getting all the space for that right now? What the Secretary of State says about small suppliers, I find very easy. With all due respect, we have in fact already arranged that. We can take care of that, too. Broadcasters can produce wherever they want, but it must be a programme that fits in with the vision and mission of that broadcaster. Maybe that's the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u70	We have recently been approached by many independent creators who say: we come up with our programme ideas to traditional broadcasting organizations, but they do not always fall into fertile soil. The Culture Council also points this out. I think that's a shame, too. It means that those independent makers do not always get the opportunities we would give them, especially the small ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u71	Finally, Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u72	Do you know what happens in a grocery store? If products remain on the shelves, they will not be sold. Then these products obviously do not meet what the broadcaster wants and what the Netherlands wants. I can't think of another answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u73	I don't think that's always true. It also has to do with the fact that small independent makers are a bit in a squeeze, not always getting through well with the large traditional broadcasting associations, which of course have a great tradition, but are not always waiting for cooperation with small independent makers. I think it would be very nice to offer them an opportunity, for example by opening up the order and also with the fund announced by the NPO. One does not, in my view, have to be at the expense of the other. If we want more pluralism, it is reinforced by a combination of the two. The second question put by Mr Atsma...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u74	If Mr Schalk has a subsequent question, it could perhaps be taken up at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u75	The Secretary of State said that he is actually looking for a mix of traditional broadcasting associations and new external smaller or larger parties that promote pluralism and can come up with new products. Is he not afraid that, especially in the case of traditional broadcasting organizations, he will get the strength out of them if they do not immediately have enough room for manoeuvre on the basis of the number of members or something like that, as is the case now, to give this pluralism form and content from their own constituents? In other words, don't bet on a very strong new branch of providers, where you want to mix the old one, but beheaded in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u76	For a number of reasons, I'm not afraid of that. This bill does not change the importance of members and the membership structure. So they remain important in the future. We have seen this, for example, in this concession period with the new entrant, Humanist broadcasting. He's got the candidate status. So that road is still open. However, small creators with creative ideas do not immediately have a large support group so that they could participate as full broadcasting. Sometimes they don't want to. This also requires much more organisation, such as setting up a membership structure. They want to make beautiful documentaries or a beautiful series, or they have another innovative idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u77	I agree, and I understand what the Secretary of State means. However, it will be a concern for a lot of members whether there is a membership structure and whether there is a beautiful association underneath. They have joined because they expect something from a broadcaster. However, that channel will not have that space anymore. I just called it the "power"................................................................................................................................................................................................. Then you take the power out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u78	I would like to ask the following question, but perhaps I am getting ahead of what the Secretary of State is going to say in his answer. However, we are now discussing the subject of my question, so I am asking it now. Fostering that creative competition with outside producers really appeals to me. However, I would regret it if a large part of the budget available for this almost automatically disappears to large companies, which have deep pockets and are often in foreign hands. I would very much like to see part of the budget earmarked to ensure that this creative competition by small producers, with demonstrable roots in their own, Dutch society, can promote pluralism, diversity and creativity. I do not know whether this is in the NPO Fund or whether we should achieve it in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u79	I think Mr Lintmeijer can be contented by the fact that stimulating young makers and innovation in films, documentaries and so on was one of the important functions of the Media Fund. That fund will be lifted. With this law, however, the NPO has an explicit role to play in the field of innovation. That is why it has been said at the NPO that these funds will be put in place to maintain this function of the Media Fund. I believe that this is 16.6 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u80	I am not going to play hand-to-hand with the Secretary of State, but I find 16.6 million on the weak side, given the total budget available to outside producers. I would say: let us then make a substantial sum of it, also because of the creative impulse we want and because of the diversity we want to promote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u81	Mr Lintmeijer has already said that we should not play a handshake here. That 16.6 million is not an exhaustive budget. If there are fantastic ideas that will participate in this creative competition, the NPO can do more for that too. I shall come straight back to Mr Schalk's point. I do not believe that the broadcasters are losing their power or their position with the possibility of opening up the order. One of the essential things we have all agreed on is that anyone who comes from outside with an idea will eventually make that programme with one of the existing broadcasters. In this sense, this proposal goes a little less far than the opinion of the Culture Council. One of the existing broadcasters may also be the NIS or the NTR. When you become a member of a broadcasting association, you always have influence. I think that this could also contribute to a much greater pluralism, also because with a little more creative competition existing broadcasters are being stimulated to create a clearer image of themselves and to develop a stronger identity of their own. And I think that's exactly why people become members of a broadcasting association. They do not join one association because it makes exactly the same programmes as the other, but because they have something with a broadcaster. In my opinion, therefore, more creative competition will only increase the incentive for traditional, existing broadcasters to really distinguish themselves on their mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u82	The Secretary of State began by expressing warm words about the broadcasting associations. That's good for me. I would like to return to what has been said about the future picture of this bill. The Secretary of State clearly stated that the concession policy plan at least gives a period of rest. I'm not asking him to be a prophet. From my tradition, I know that's only given to few. However, I would ask him to reflect on what will happen after 2020. Then what is the place for the broadcasting organizations? What stability does he grant them? What possibilities does he see? With the answer I have just heard, it is equally possible to take the step that some people here in the Chamber might like, but which I would very much regret, namely the step in abolishing our typical Dutch system to make it something British, Belgian or German.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u83	Let me put it in a different word. What makes the Dutch system so special? That is the principle of external pluralism. It's a system that's complicated. There is the NPO programming, there are broadcasting associations that produce. Those broadcasting associations are driven by a mission, they have grassroots and so on, et cetera. That is a bit the secret of the Dutch broadcasting system. I see no reason to put that system overboard if it continues to make a substantial contribution to pluralism. I think pluralism is of the utmost importance, because it shows something of the multicolourity, of the multitude of backgrounds and views in the Netherlands. I think it is an important task for public service broadcasting to show these things. I hope Mrs Bikker can find that in my bill as well. I am not just thinking of external pluralism and the preservation of these broadcasting associations, but I would also like to give it as an explicit mandate to the NPO to ensure this pluralism in the programming and the mission as a whole in the preparation of concession policy plans. I shall now return to Mrs Bikker's question. If our system continues to work as it works now, if it remains effective and if we manage to continue to reach our viewers, then I see no reason to throw that system away. I think that is something we should be careful about. At the same time, the challenges we face are enormous. If we do not manage to bind younger generations in the coming years, we will have a very different conversation in five years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u84	The Secretary of State says the challenges are enormous. However, it has also been outlined in the Chamber that broadcasting organisations now have 3.5 million members. Maybe it's even 3.5 million households. They feel involved in public service broadcasting and join a broadcaster. In other institutions, the number of members has already fallen much more. If in 2020 it still appears that a substantial part of the Dutch population is a member of a broadcasting association, does the Secretary of State not think it would be possible for a system change to take us further away from the broadcasting associations, and where pluralism is placed entirely in state hands or in commercial hands? I am now asking him to give a vision in his role as a ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u85	This will depend on the commitment of members to the broadcasters, but also on the performance of those associations. Will we continue to succeed in reaching all these target groups, including those which are currently not sufficiently achieved? Can we continue to ensure that this is a channel for all Dutch people? That is the great challenge we face. If we succeed in that, I say you shouldn't try to fix something that isn't broken. No, if it's not broken, you have to be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u86	I would very much like to go along with the Secretary of State in the idea that the change he is proposing in structure and organisation will result in the objective of achieving new and other groups, such as young people. However, it appears to be a problem to explain why this new structure will succeed. It's kind of a purpose: I want it to be that way, and so it becomes that way. But that's just the question. When the Secretary of State talks about external parties, it turns out that they are also small parties. But that's not in the law, because it just says "external." Is this about production houses or about creative providers? I sometimes feel that it is about certain groups who want something or have a certain interest. I find that a little confusing. The Secretary of State can make them small and hope that they are nice, young, creative people, but that is not in the law and he cannot guarantee that either. Nor can the NPO guarantee that. You can say that precisely because of the history of the Dutch association system, with the arrival of BNN on the one hand and MAX on the other, it has become apparent that there is room for new initiatives with new groups, at least new categories of people to be organized. I have a little problem with the problem that I would like to go along with the Secretary of State in the idea that this will be the solution for the coming years, but that I have not yet heard the compelling argument for that from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u87	I think there are two questions in Mr Schnabel's speech. The first is about opening the order to outside parties. He's right: they're not just the little, young makers. But they do get a chance, where they don't get enough right now. It could also be the larger independent producers who come up with an idea. They can also be civil society organisations. That is what I find exciting about what the Culture Council has proposed. He himself came up with ideas like Natural Monuments, the Academy and so on. You're using it to tap into a whole new source. To a number of others, who I know are so important to civil society, I would like to say that you are broadening that playing field in that sense too. Mr Schnabel's second question is how I know that will work. How do I know I'm gonna reach those new target groups? I don't think we can fully predict that in advance. But with this bill, we do allow the NPO to send it explicitly. Where there are blind spots now, the NPO can see if there are parties outside the traditional broadcasters who want to create programmes for those target groups. The second is that of Mr Schnabel's speech in the first term: if you want to play in the rapidly changing world and in the media landscape that is pushing forward like a kind of big wave, scale is important. We can see that there is a fragmentation of everything going on here on social media, there on YouTube, there again a little programme that is still being thrown away from Netflix, but the question is whether this contributes to a very strong position of public broadcasting, which can also position itself towards young people and in the changing market. I believe that public service broadcasting should present itself more as a whole, rather than as a sum of all sorts of small initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u88	Then I think your bill would have won if it had become clearer what public media services, as you so beautifully call it, could have included in the future. One of the problems has always been that broadcasters have been prevented from using the new media by legislation and by the Commission. That was not their job. But I'm gonna have to. That is not yet reflected. You say there's a lot of ideas that don't come to fruition. I haven't actually read any complaints about this from people and/or organisations in all the documents. You can also say the opposite: just because there are so many entrances, you may always be able to enter somewhere. I'd like to follow your reasoning, but I haven't found any convincing evidence yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u89	Mrs. Gerkens with a subsequent question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u90	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u91	Then, hopefully, the Secretary of State will answer Mr Schnabel's questions first. Then you'll be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u92	With this bill, we are trying to make the idea of the public service broadcasting platform virtual. Where in the past there has been talk of radio stations and television channels, where the Internet hanged on, this is much more driven: you make video, which is both for television and for the Internet. The great modernisation we are making with this bill is that we no longer think in old traditional booths, but based on platform neutrality or independence. Furthermore, we have not heard those parties, but I will listen to them between the lines when I read the opinion of the Culture Council. There is a group of creative makers that is not sufficiently exploited by public service broadcasting. Furthermore, I note that the platform of independent producers of OTP is there larger, medium-sized and some smaller guys in the case of.. are strongly in favour of this bill, because it sees opportunities in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u93	I'm still trying to understand the Secretary of State's reasoning. He says: at the moment, public service broadcasting lacks the connection with young people. At the same time, he says: we need to create new opportunities, we need to make sure that outside producers can come in better. Do I understand now that the Secretary of State is actually trying to find a solution to an ancient problem? There is still a small generation difference between the Secretary of State and me, but when he was still crawling around in the Babble Box and I looked at the VPRO at Waldolala, abhorred by my parents, that really couldn't be done, the question of whether public service broadcasting finds young people was discussed. Apparently, the Secretary of State has more knowledge. He knows from the outside producers that they can offer programmes that will revive public service broadcasting. What exactly is that in him? Then why aren't these outside producers in our public service broadcasting?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u94	The latter is part of the development. I can imagine that it has also been difficult in the past to reach young people, but we can see that there is now a downward trend. So it's actually getting less and less. How do I know there are others who can? We see that some young makers, pioneers, are able to attract young people. I believe that Mr Schnabel set the example of Enzo Knol. That's a boy with his own YouTube channel, with one and a half million followers in the Netherlands. He's very popular among young people. Young people know Enzo Knol, but they look less and less at public broadcasting. That's one way to bind them; there are. But that requires all the creativity we have in the Netherlands and more opportunities for the NPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u95	Then I come back to what I just said: it is not at all in the content of the programmes of public service broadcasting. They're appreciated by young people. You cannot compare a vlogger like Enzo Knol at all with what is offered on television. Again, I ask you whether you can create the creativity to think away from the standard idea of three channels that, if the outside producers are brought in, the egg of Columbus has been found. That's how we draw the young, because they're young eggs. You should also have the courage to look at a very different way of producing: the anytime, anyplace, anywhere free offering of all our programs, already paid by the taxpayer, which is indeed often thwarted by the NPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u96	We don't disagree. Young people can no longer be reached through traditional television. As I pointed out, there aren't even any more televisions in student homes. This indicates the shift to the digital domain. Young people may still be watching the news, but they're not watching the full news. They pick up video fragments from the news items they see on an app. That's another way of news consumption. They're still watching video, but they're watching video on demand. This requires public service broadcasting to focus not only on traditional television channels and radio, but also on the digital domain. First of all, this requires legislation which, in this sense, is less based on the traditional booths. Platform neutral, that's this law. Secondly, it requires the possibility for the NPO to use that movement. I do not know if the proposal to offer all content on Broadcast missed free of charge is feasible. You're dealing with law sometimes. You can buy them all off, but then it costs a lot more, especially if it has to be done abroad. I agree with Mrs Gerkens that it should be made clearer that one programme on Broadcast has been missed after two days, while the other is infinitely long to be seen. At some point, the viewer wants to know where to find the programs if he wants to see them. If you subscribe to Netflix, what you are looking for is always available. That battle has yet to be made by the NPO, the public service broadcaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u97	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u98	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u99	The Secretary of State said the NPO really has to make that battle. I hope this isn't a slip of the tongue. When I look at what he's saying and what's in the bill, it's only in this law that I see the limitations mentioned in the word catch-up. So it's not that neutral. That is why I ask the Secretary of State what exactly in this bill is going to bring public service broadcasting into the digital domain, as he has just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u100	Platform neutrality is really what we introduce with this law, instead of the old transmitter and radio structure. I think this is a huge step. Secondly, I believe that a more central role for the NPO, which can make a number of choices here, will greatly help to reduce the fragmentation that we are seeing now and to ensure that we go to a recognizable public broadcaster, including in the digital domain. The rest of my speech I would like to keep on the basis of five large blocks. Questions have been asked about governance. That is what I want to go into in the first block. Questions were also asked about the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters and about the steering role of the NPO. I'll answer that in the second block. In the third block I deal with the tightening up of the public media mission. In the fourth block I say a few things about regional broadcasting. I would like to comment on this bill, but also on a legislative proposal that comes up and on the question of the 17 million cuts that are going to take place next year. I'll finish with a fifth block where I'll bring some more varia. Many questions have been asked about the governance of public service broadcasting and the guarantee of independence vis-à-vis the government. Let me point out that I understand that very well. Like the Chamber, I believe that public service broadcasting should be able to make completely independent choices in and about programming within the framework of the Media Act. The purpose of the safeguards in the Media Act is precisely to ensure that the independence of public service broadcasting is ensured. I understand very well that there are all kinds of questions about this, all the more so because stories about how that happened in Poland reached the Netherlands in December. In the first term of the Court, several questions referred to that situation. It has been asked whether a parallel with the Netherlands could be drawn and whether we saw such things happening in the Netherlands. I closely monitor developments in Poland, particularly in the media field. At the same time, I must say quite honestly that the situation in Poland is completely incomparable to that in the Netherlands. Let me give you an example. Two legislative changes have been made in Poland. One relates to the constitutional court, the other to the media law. It's probably the most relevant one for tonight. The amendment of the media law in Poland concerns firstly the appointment of directors and supervisors, so call it the boards of public service broadcasting. Those directors are also responsible for the editorial choices of the public service broadcaster. They were first appointed by open procedure, now directly by the Minister of Finance. The term of office and the criteria for dismissal have disappeared from the law. We do have these things. Furthermore, in press releases, the Polish Government has explicitly given the impression that public service broadcasting is mainly there to make the sound of the government heard. For example, a recent commercial on waste separation from government was withdrawn, reportedly because the actor who figured in it was gay. I believe that the MP Maij has now asked questions about this to my colleague in the Foreign Affairs Committee. Without expressing too much substance about the situation in Poland, it is clear to me that such a situation in the Netherlands is completely unthinkable, for a number of reasons. Firstly, it is inconceivable that public service broadcasting in the Netherlands should be given the task of making the sound of government heard. That's what we have guarantees for. The Constitution and the Media Act explicitly prohibit prior monitoring of content. It explicitly states: no preventive censorship. Broadcasts have programmatic autonomy. The Media Act stipulates that they determine the form and content of the programmes. The NPO as part of the public service broadcasting also carries out its programming task completely independently. It is legally established that the government can never destroy or amend decisions of the NPO, for example decisions on the classification of programme schedules. Neither my colleagues nor I can reverse decisions on the programmes that are being put into it. That really is the autonomy of the NPO. Intervention in the programming of public service broadcasting, as appears to be happening in Poland, is really not possible here. I don't see that happening. There really is no reason or indication to assume that this is happening now. The government has no role in the appointment of the editorial staff in the Netherlands. Where in Poland the bosses of the broadcasters responsible for making the programmes have been appointed, the government does not in any way come close to those responsible for the editorial choices concerning the content of the programmes, i.e. the editors, programme makers and directors of the broadcasters. In the NIS and the NTR, for example, the Minister only appoints the supervisors. The supervisory boards then appoint independently, without agreement, the boards of directors. The government has no role whatsoever in the appointment of the directors of the broadcasting organizations. I do not see an order to make the government sound or to directly appoint the programmers, given in the Netherlands. Nevertheless, many questions from Members of Parliament concern the role of the minister in appointments and the implications that this has for the independence of public service broadcasting. In the reply I went into it in detail. I have outlined the safeguards provided by the Media Act in this respect and how this bill contributes to this. Let me say a few words about this when I see that this is a very important subject for the Chamber. What role does the executive play in appointments in general terms in public service broadcasting? The Minister of OCW has administrative responsibility for the NPO. That's why he plays a role in appointment and dismissal. This will enable a member of the board to assume his or her administrative and political responsibility in the event of a serious failure of a director or supervisor. A board member may also impose requirements on supervisors through profiles that are public and through the composition of the supervisory board. I say to Mr Lintmeijer that it is therefore also possible, when appointing supervisors, for example, to encourage diversity in terms of background, age, gender and so on. In most European countries, the government is involved in the appointment of the highest level of public service broadcasting. This also relates perfectly to the European standards in force as set out in the Council of Europe's recommendations. The Council of Europe considers it important that appointment procedures are transparent and that objective criteria relating to the role and mission of public service broadcasting are used in the appointment. The Media Act clearly regulates the appointments, tasks and dismissals of the members of the Supervisory Board and the Management Board. For example, the incompatibilitys, the terms of appointment of a person cannot be re-appointed indefinitely and the grounds for dismissal are explicitly laid down in the law in order to avoid arbitrariness. This bill does not propose a rigorous change in governance. This bill adds a number of small things, such as some requirements regarding the appointment procedure of the Supervisory Board of the NPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u101	Something is changing in our view, namely that the NPO turns from a coordinating administrative organisation into a steering administrative organisation. At other times in the debate, there has been extensive consideration of what this means for monitoring. If politics continues to appoint the Supervisory Board and has the right of assent in the appointment of the Management Board, then politics will come closer if it is a steering organisation rather than a coordinating organisation. That is a fundamental difference for our party from the way things are going. We believe that the Cabinet, the Secretary of State and the Minister, by making performance agreements that are also justified, whether they are about diversity or other things, has sufficient guidance to fulfil his role as system responsible. In this respect, giving the NPO a steering role is the great time to completely refrain from the formal appointment of the Supervisory Board. Then we are immediately rid of all the appearances that such a formal appointment brings, a appearance that we do not like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u102	I will deal with this in more detail later. I'd be happy to do that after answering some specific questions about recent appointments. I myself have the impression that this has happened in a proper way. However, I sympathise with what Mr Lintmeijer has to say here. I don't know if we've moved closer to the NPO; that's not in this bill. However, the NPO is given a steering role instead of a coordinating one. One could say: a greater role in achieving the total media supply. This is perhaps a reason to rethink fundamentally the distance that politics should have from the NPO. I think I will be able to make a number of commitments on this later, including in the direction of Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u103	I am not just concerned with recent appointments. I have expressly said in my speech that I see a pattern over the years. At the moment the NPO is going to send, it is undesirable that politics is too close to that. Even if nothing actually changes about these appointments, we are still close to a steering organisation, whereas that organisation was rather coordinating. That fundamental difference is the reason for us, I have outlined the underlying cause, to say: we must now get rid of it altogether. I'm waiting for the Secretary of State's ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u104	I'll go into that later. I also see that the role of the NPO is changing with this bill. I also think that this could have consequences for governance. I would like to say immediately that the independence of public service broadcasting is not just a question of appointments. There's a whole system of checks-and-balances around it, with legal frameworks and guarantees. I believe that the Media Act is also the current one, but it may well have a system that offers very good guarantees, even if I compare it with the countries around us: England and Belgium, where things are similar. Most spokesmen have asked questions about the appointment of the Supervisory Board at the NPO. How'd it go? The new Supervisory Board had to be replaced completely. That is what we were faced with, as I say to Mrs Sent. I think that is an undesirable situation and I want to have a table with the new supervisory board soon to talk about a more gradual withdrawal schedule. In this way you can guarantee continuity much better. But it was so; everything was arranged. This had to do with statutory appointments, which all ended on 1 January. They could not be renewed, so a new supervisory board had to be set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u105	I ask the Secretary of State to go beyond 'ask the Supervisory Board' and to ensure that such a situation does not arise in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u106	By 'questions' I mean that I do so in good consultation, but my objective is that this will be dealt with differently in the future. I wanted to do this with care and openness. I have also tried to build in a number of safeguards that were not necessarily required by the law. In fact, these safeguards are set out in the new law, including setting up an independent appointment advisory committee instead of doing the interviews and the selection itself. Work has also been done on established profiles, which have been published in all national newspapers and on which everyone could apply. These were not legal requirements, but from the point of view of transparency and openness it is good to do so. It's also in the bill, so it happens in the future. In the preparation of these profiles, several parties were consulted: the previous Supervisory Board of the NPO, the Governing Board of the NPO, the Joint Works Councils of the NPO. The profiles were based on expertise and not on a political colour. In fact, being able to operate independently of politics, government and any other interests was an explicit starting point that we set out and gave to the appointment advisory committee. The profiles were published simultaneously with the advertisements in three national newspapers. The open application procedure was supported by a recruitment agency. In the end, the appointment advisory committee made me a proposal, which I accepted one-on-one, without any change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u107	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that there are two weaknesses in the procedure that has now been followed? The first is that the appointment advisory committee has been set up by the State Secretary and is therefore not formally independent. The second is that the opinion is not binding. Is the Secretary of State prepared to include these two weaknesses in his promised serious reconnaissance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u108	I think it would be very good to include these parts in that exploration. Although the proposal of the appointment advisory committee was not binding on me, I accepted the proposal one-on-one. So I didn't change anything about that. I have thought about that, by the way. A number of spokesmen pointed out that the President was a member of my party. I've been wondering how to deal with that. That is something you can have a discussion about; that is quite understandable. Then there are two things I can do: adopt and accept the opinion of the appointment advisory committee one-on-one that there may be some discussion about this, or get into it itself, with the risk that the Chamber will probably say that that too is not good. I'm just going to put it on the table: I was faced with a dilemma. However, if you look at the overall supervisory board and the total nomination made by the appointment advisory committee and not just the chairman............................................................................................................................................................................................ He is diverse in all kinds of relationships, including in terms of political preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u109	I understand the dilemma for which the Secretary of State stood. At the same time, there is the problem. I am in favour of a procedure whereby the Secretary of State will never face that dilemma. Then he doesn't have to choose, then he doesn't have to wonder what to do: appoint a member of the party and then get stuff over him or intervene but really don't want it. On the contrary, I would like to prevent the Secretary of State from facing such a dilemma. I will tell him: do not go back into that position and let go of that appointment. Set it up with another system, for example through co-optation, through another independent committee or through the influence of third parties. I'd like to hear all kinds of suggestions about that. It is precisely this point that would have prevented the Secretary of State from facing that dilemma. Furthermore, the Secretary of State says that the committee is sufficiently diverse. From the point of view of functionality, that is certainly the case. However, from the point of view of representation of the cultural social landscape in this society, it is a rather one-sided supervisory board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u110	Mr Nagel, would you like to join us on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u111	When I hear the Secretary of State describing the procedure, I think that tears in the eyes should be awarded the beauty prize.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u113	But what is the actual situation? By him, and no one else, an appointment advisory committee is set up with two relatively unknown Dutch and one huge political heavyweight: a former VVD vice-president in the Lower House, commissioner of the King and campaign leader. Of course, it puts a huge stamp on that appointment advisory committee. Let's not fool each other at that point. Then you can later say that you have taken over the one-to-one in this case was so, but we also have another case to discuss at the NTR, but everyone knows how these things work in practice. That committee was appointed by the Secretary of State. In it was an important VVD, who could put a stamp on it. And the nomination was then taken over by the Secretary of State. Well, at least you're against appearances. This wasn't supposed to happen. Surely it can't be true that the three key functions are in the hands of the VVD? Surely it cannot be that the one who appoints everyone on behalf of the government is the VVD, that the chairman hammer of the supervisory board is in the hands of the VVD and that the chairman hammer of the supervisory board of the NTR is in the hands of the VVD? Conversely, if the story is correct, a non-VVD member of the NTR has been rejected and the appointment of the former MP Mirjam Strong, proposed by the central works council, is usually taken over by such a nomination. Then you get the feeling that it's all VVD that beats the clock and that others aren't welcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u114	Mrs Gerkens, do you agree with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u115	Yes. The Secretary of State shares with us his enormous struggle: what should I do, because this might create the appearance of conflict of interest. However, he simply had the solution in his hands, being the law and the statutes, which state that a person who is employed by or falls under the responsibility of the minister should not take on this task at all. In fact, if I read the statutes like that, then the appointment is simply not valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u116	That's a lot of questions. Let me walk them off. I shall begin with the composition of the appointment advisory committee. I notice that Mr Nagel likes to throw up all kinds of conspiracy theories. The reason we asked those three people for the appointment advisory committee is that they had been on other appointment advisory committees of my ministry before and had done an excellent job. In the case of appointments to the Council for Culture and the Education Council, the same three officials have played a role, always in a different composition. There was indeed the King's Commissioner, who belongs to the VVD house. But, to be fairly honest, a commissioner of the King must also present and appoint here and there the names of mayors. I believe that he is also doing so impartially and is also trying to ensure a wide spread. In addition, he was one of three and was not the chairman either. So it is really too easy to say that there has been influence here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u117	I have a quick question. Due to success in the past, a reappointment took place. Can we assume that due to this success in the future, the commitment of these people will be prolonged?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u118	I have no idea what Mr Nagel is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u119	The Secretary of State says that these people have previously done the same work at the Ministry of Education, and successfully. Can we then assume that due to the current success in the future there will be a further prolongation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u120	In fact, it's already happened. Indeed, the chairman of the appointment advisory committee, Mr Nagel, is not the person to whom Mr Nagel refers, because he is also the chairman of the appointment committee for the composition of the supervisory board of the regional public service broadcaster. Mr Nagel makes all kinds of suggestions, but I am far from it. I think this is too easy. Also look at the appointments I've made elsewhere. Look at the broad composition of the supervisory boards and who else has been active in political parties. Then he will also find people from other political parties there. It's always nice to pick out a VVD with a whole story, but, sorry, I find that really too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u121	I think the Secretary of State is making it very difficult on this point. Actually, I'm not at all interested in who's being appointed to which place at this time. I would like to raise Mr Lintmeijer's point again. In fact, the kind of situation in which the Secretary of State now finds himself should not occur anyway. He can stop it himself. This has not so much to do with what the procedures look like, but with the position people are going to take and with the possible influence they can exert with that position on how public media services will work in the Netherlands. This afternoon, I think, almost all the parties in the Chamber have indicated that the Secretary of State must return to this point. If the NPO is going to have to hold all that heavier position, it is clear that the Secretary of State is very keen to do so and that he expects much from it, then the Secretary of State must ensure that there is no chance of a political discussion surrounding it by ensuring that both the Supervisory Board and the Management Board are appointed as independently as possible. I appeal to the Secretary of State to really, literally get back on his feet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u122	Once again, I will come back to this point by Mr Schnabel, on which Mr Lintmeijer has also asked a question. I believe that I can go a long way in this respect. However, I would like to come back to Mr Lintmeijer's still unanswered question: can you not put some kind of committee between it so that you are not put in that position? That's what I've been trying to do with the appointment advisory committee. And then it's not quite right. So it's still pretty complicated to do it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u123	I'm gonna run to the microphone, or it's gonna take so long. A committee to the committee, that was not my point. It is my concern that the Secretary of State himself should step out of that responsibility. Well, then you're done with the problem. How you handle that is a secondary discussion. It is about the starting point: step out of that role.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u124	Let me deal with this in more detail later. There's two things going on right now. After all, Mrs Sent has asked for specific things about this procedure: how did it go and does it still fit within the law? Then I come back to the bigger issue, namely whether something fundamental should not be changed for the future. Once again, I really think I can accommodate the Chamber on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u125	Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to say something about involving the College of Appeals in that procedure. He was talking about a hybrid model. If you still have to move forward together, I can imagine you're giving everyone their own role in that process. I'm going to go back to the carefulness of the procedure, but it's not about the person. The Secretary of State said that there was an appointment advisory committee, but that he also sought advice from the supervisory board of the public service broadcaster and that he also asked for it. On 7 December, the Public Broadcasting Supervisory Board wrote to the Secretary of State that what he did was extremely unwise and inappropriate. I asked the Secretary of State, without mentioning this quote, to respond to the supervisory board's opinion on the appointment he made. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's opinion on this. He says he's been careful. Then we, as well as the Supervisory Board, must know what he has done with this kind of advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u126	I know the letter. By the way, I have answered it nicely. I don't know if you've seen the answer. There were two arguments in the letter. An argument was about whether the appointment of the President is contrary to the Media Act, i.e. whether this is one of the incompatibilitys. I think Mrs. Sent asked for this too. There are reports that this would be based on an incorrect reading of the law, in particular Article 2.6 of the Media Act, but that is not the case in my view. According to that article, membership of the Supervisory Board of the NPO is not compatible with an employment at a ministry or with a service, institution or company under the responsibility of the Ministry. This refers to services, institutions and companies which are directly covered by the ministerial responsibility, i.e. hierarchical responsibility. I would like to mention, among other things, the Incompatibility and State-General and the European Parliament Act and the accompanying explanations. The UWV is an independent administrative body. A characteristic of a Zbo is that it is not in a hierarchical relationship of authority with the minister. In addition, there must be a relationship of authority between the minister and the person concerned in an employment relationship. Members of a Zbo have no employment because a hierarchical relationship is lacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u127	This is a technical response, I would almost say: bureaucratic response. But how do you judge it that you have put aside the advice of your own supervisory board without any doubt? Your own supervisory board said at that time that he actually feels a little abused and that, if he has to, he will stop. I'm saying it in my own words now. I have already mentioned the qualifications in the letter. How do you assess the advice of the Supervisory Board? What are you doing with that? You're saying it's not true and your reading is different. I understand. However, it is not just something that the Supervisory Board of the NPO writes to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u128	It wasn't advice from the Supervisory Board. It was a letter in response to the appointment which I had decided and which I had already announced before. So it wasn't advice. I don't have to ask the old supervisory board for advice either. It was a reaction of the president to the appointment. In my reply, two points were raised which I found unjustified. In other words, the board was misplaced. In my response to the letter, I also mentioned this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u129	With all due respect, it was a response from the Supervisory Board. It is clear that the President signed the letter, but the letter was on behalf of the entire council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u130	But that doesn't change the essence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u131	I am very sorry that we have to have this discussion, but I would like to go back to Article 2.6 (1) (f) in the Media Act. It states that membership of the RP is incompatible with an employment in a ministry or with a service, institution or company falling under the responsibility of a minister, as the Secretary of State also said. But I don't read anything about hierarchy. In the annual report of the UWV I read that the UWV is an independent administrative body and falls under the responsibility of the Minister of SZW. There's nothing I can read in it but a contradiction. I do not see the Secretary of State's interpretation of hierarchy in the texts I have in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u132	Mrs. Gerkens, next?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u133	The Secretary of State may now say that it is the spirit of the law and that he interprets the law in this way, but I would remind him that statutes do not refer to the spirit of the law. It says literally: an employment in a ministry or in a service, institution or company under the responsibility of the minister. It's incompatible. The Secretary of State may still have doubts about what Mrs Sent said, but on the Dutch government: "Zbo's are independent, but the Minister does have control over the Zbo. The Minister is responsible for the policy that the Zbo carries out and for its supervision. The Minister must also be able to answer for a Zbo in the First and Second Chambers." I can't be any clearer. I think this function is simply incompatible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u134	That's your interpretation of the law. The statutes are textually one-on-one in line with what is laid down in the law. The Act of Incompatibility and State-General and European Parliament clearly shows what is meant by non-hierarchy being subordinate to the Minister. This also shows explicitly that a function in a Zbo is compatible with the function of MP. Those functions can just go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u135	A membership of the UWV is not compatible with a membership of the States General. I looked that up in our own Rules of Procedure this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u136	That's right. This concerns the Incompatibility and State-General and European Parliament Act. This means that board members of the UWV cannot also be members of the Second or the First Chamber. The UWV is the only Zbo mentioned in that law. A contrario means that ZBOs fit in general. The Media Act was adopted by this Chamber following the Incompatibility and State-General and European Parliament Act. The Media Act deliberately chose not to include the UWV as one of the incompatibilitys, while the Incompatibility and State-General and European Parliament Act do. That was a conscious choice, because there is absolutely no link between social security and media policy. In that sense, neither do the two of them conflict.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u137	I'm gonna try one more time. Article 2.6 (1) (f) states that this is incompatible with an employment in a ministry or with a service, institution or company. Does the Secretary of State say that it is a service, institution or company under the responsibility of the Minister of OCW, or under any minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u138	In the Media Act, it is formulated in general terms. However, I would like to say immediately that a member of the board of directors of a Zbo is not employed. The Act of Incompatibility and State-General and European Parliament also shows that this must be interpreted as such. We also had this checked legally before taking the decision to make this nomination of the appointment advisory committee explicit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u139	It says "service, institution or company." Then I read it in such a way that everything that falls under the responsibility of a ministry is meant. That's the way it's supposed to be, let's assume. That person relates to a hierarchical relationship with the minister. How can the Secretary of State say that there is no hierarchical relationship, while the Minister will always have to answer for a Zbo in political terms in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u140	The essence of a Zbo is that there is no hierarchical relationship with the minister concerned. There is therefore no question of an employment relationship. The Act of Incompatibility and State-General and European Parliament clearly shows that a function in a Zbo is compatible with other functions. The same applies to the Supervisory Board of the NPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u141	Mrs. Bikker, finally. Then I want to end this discussion. I do not think we can solve this difference of opinion between a narrow and a broad explanation. It's gonna take more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u142	How does the Secretary of State judge that there is a connection between the chairman of a Zbo and a minister? He doesn't call it hierarchical, but the minister will have to answer in the Chamber. Recently we have seen that a chairman of a Zbo is defeated by one of the colleagues of the Secretary of State. There's a hierarchy in that, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u143	I look at the law as it is and must be explained. I have applied it fairly strictly and have come to the conclusion that there was no grounds for exclusion which prevented the President from being appointed. Maybe I can pull it a little further. I was somewhat surprised that the previous supervisory board also had someone connected to a ZBO. There was a special member of the Security Research Council. That is also a Zbo for which a minister is responsible. In this way, I shall give it to the President-in-Office of the Council. We have a fairly clear line in this regard that a person is not in a hierarchical relationship with the Minister, whether employed or employed by a Zbo. Also on the basis of all legal history, it is not an exclusion ground to participate in the Supervisory Board of the NPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u144	One more time, Mrs. Bikker. Now, finally, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u145	I understand, Mr President, but I'm looking for the reason why the Secretary of State is so strict about this, while at the same time we've seen the resignation of the Director of the SVB. I think that's just an example of a Zbo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u146	I do not know exactly how that went with the Social Insurance Bank, but again: I have looked at what can and cannot be done legally. After careful consideration and after checking and double-checking, I have come to the conclusion that there is no contradiction here, that it is possible and that in that sense I did not have to depart from the nomination by the appointment advisory committee. The second objection in the letter from the Supervisory Board, I say in response to Mr Atsma, is the point that the chairman would be politically active because he would be participating in an election programme. This has been discussed, including with the appointment advisory committee. Before Bruno Bruins joined the new Supervisory Board on 1 January, he deposited it. Also there the tires are neatly cut. Mr Nagel asked whether I rejected a nomination from the selection committee at the NTR. It doesn't tell me something like one-two-three that this selection committee could be, because there was no selection committee at all at the NTR. Maybe I can leave it at that for the sake of convenience. There has been talk of candidates. To be honest, I found some of that, too. In the end, there has been a lecture on the basis of which I have come to an appointment. In my view, that too has gone neatly. The legal safeguards in the Media Act ensure that the appointments can be made in a transparent and independent way in my view and that directors and supervisors can act without burden and backspoke. It is not the case that an appointment by a ruler would lead to a person not being able to act freely. Judges in this country are also appointed at the request of the cabinet, the Crown, but I think they are then completely free to form their own judgments. That does not take away from me. I shall now come to the point made by Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Schnabel. Times change in that sense, too. Mr Lintmeijer cited a few examples from the past of appointments that were much closer to the content. We are talking about an appointment on a supervisory board, but Mr Lintmeijer's examples were directly about the directors, even at a time when the NPO and the NOS were still one organisation and made programmes. Meanwhile we are a lot further away from that and we have built in all kinds of checks-and-balances to stay far away from that. However, with the new role that the NPO will have, I can imagine that we will take a critical look at that. I also think that in the current appointment procedures, which have sometimes been established for years, there is room for improvement. Let me give you a few examples of what I ran into. The appointment procedures for the NIS and NTR Supervisory Boards could be made more transparent and clearer. There is now no obligation to work with established profiles, with public opening and with advertisements in the newspaper. Sometimes that's a little bit of working with lists. I attach great importance to an open and transparent procedure, so that, in the end, an appointment can also be made whereby a supervisory board can operate independently. The same applies to appointments to the supervisor, the Media Commissioner. These, too, could be codified. At the Star we recently had a discussion about governance and a recent study has been launched there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u147	I had to look up something. I have just heard the Secretary of State say that there was no selection committee for the nomination of the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the NTR. I heard that right, didn't I? Otherwise, that will be denied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u148	I heard, but that doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u149	On page 53 of the further reply, it says that there was initially a profile and that there was a gross list of potential candidates. I now quote from the State Secretary's report: "The NTR then announced at the end of May 2014 that it had found a suitable candidate and made a nomination." It is one of the two: a lecture is being made or not. The Secretary of State says: no, there was no selection committee and there was no nomination. I don't know how you get a proposal for appointment without a nomination, but that aside. It clearly states that a lecture has been made. I would like to repeat my question: is it correct that there is a rather different name, being a non-VVD, as a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u150	What Mr Nagel is reading is correct, because I think I wrote it myself and sent it to the Chamber. But Mr Nagel was talking about a selection committee, and that really doesn't mean anything to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u151	Then who did that speech to the NTR? Was that a staff meeting, or how'd that go?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u152	The Supervisory Board of the NTR made that nomination, but without a selection committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u153	But there was a lecture. So I repeat my question: was there any other name proposed first as a possible candidate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u154	No, there's been one formal presentation. I've taken over. At an earlier stage, I was interviewed by the Vice-President of the Supervisory Board and the director of the NPO on the basis of a broad list. That list also included someone who could not be appointed at all, someone for whom there was indeed an exclusion ground. There were people of different political colors on it, but I didn't think those names were suitable for all kinds of reasons. Also given the diversity and composition of the Supervisory Board, I was not enthusiastic about it. Then I asked them to do their homework again. This resulted in a formal nomination, from which this chairman was finally rolled out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u155	Last point, Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u156	I shall come back to it in the second term, because I have some information in writing here and I would like to discuss with you whether or not it should be disseminated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u157	I was on the bigger picture and Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Schnabel's question as to whether it would not be good to see how we can do things even more openly and transparently in the future, in a way that also guarantees the independence of the organisations in our media system. I have just given a number of examples where it can do even better. I indicated in the written reply that I am prepared to undertake a serious review of the current procedures for appointment, involving the Minister, and of improvements that could take place there. My starting point is that this procedure is transparent, uses open recruitment and leads to an independent nomination. I'd like to take a broad look at that. In this exploration I therefore include the NPO, the RPO, the NOS, the NTR, the STER, the Media Commissioner and the Journalism Fund Stimulation Fund. I will take the points raised by the Chamber into consideration, such as the undesirableness of replacing it in one go and a number of other things that have been discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u158	Mr. Chairman. In order to prevent it from being a noncommittal, serious reconnaissance, I would also like to see what follow-up steps the Secretary of State envisages once that reconnaissance is in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u159	I want to do some things. I heard the room right. One of the things is about the growing role of the NPO. We're not gonna sit on it any closer, but the NPO gets a bigger role, a steering instead of a coordinating role. A number of members ask how this relates to the involvement of the executive in the appointment of the director of that club. I am not the one who appoints, because that is ultimately the supervisory board, but in the current law I have to agree to the appointment. I am prepared to say in concrete terms that this is a part that we are abandoning, and that we are, so to speak, putting a cut on it. If you are involved in the composition of the Supervisory Board, it does not need to happen one-on-one with the Management Board. I'm comparing that to the situation at the State University. There the Minister appoints the Supervisory Board, also from the system responsibility, to intervene eventually, if things are not right with such an organisation, but he is less close to it than when he appoints the Board. That is not the case at the university either. Mrs Sent also asked about the further route. This is a commitment I would like to make tonight. I think it's possible to complete that exploration in the spring. The lessons that we can learn from it will then be included in the legislative proposal that will be submitted to the House of Representatives this year. This can be parallel to the legislative proposal for the region, which can be implemented in the very short term, so to speak. If there are more fundamental issues, it could perhaps come to this Chamber in a separate legislative proposal this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u160	I want to make sure I understand the Secretary of State. Is he already saying that the members of the NPO's board of directors will now be appointed by the supervisory board and no longer with the Minister's consent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u161	Mrs Sent understood that correctly, but that requires a change of law because I do have a role to play and have to agree to it. I am prepared to amend the law on this point at the first opportunity that arises, at least by the regional law which will be sent to the House of Representatives later this year. Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Schnabel actually asked a little more. They also asked me to look more fundamentally at the role of the executive in the composition of, for example, supervisory boards. I am prepared to investigate this seriously, but that is a more fundamental question. This raises the question of who will appoint these supervisory boards and how they will be created. Do you do that through co-optation? That was a suggestion made by Mrs Sent in her written questions. I am not very much in favour of that. We see in business and in all the discussions on governance that things are moving away from co-optation. Is there another way? Yes. I have some ideas about it, too. One could say, for example, that the appointment of members of the supervisory board is not by the minister, but by the entire cabinet. You can also agree procedures about it in other ways, for example on a proposal from the Supervisory Board itself, although there is always the risk of co-optation. You could think about the role of parliament, as is happening in Belgium. Moreover, this is not a guarantee when it comes to preventing political direction. I'd like to have the debate with the Chamber about it. I would also like to take a serious look at it, but the Chamber cannot reasonably ask for a solution on this part of me tonight, because this requires further study and serious thought. If we do it, let's do it right at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u162	I would like to offer the Secretary of State his broad exploration, but I would like to invite him to tell us here that the outcome of that exploration is not that politics remains directly involved in the appointment of the Supervisory Board. Otherwise, such an exploration could go in all directions and we would have had the same discussion in the spring, but we would have missed the opportunity to get it right now. I understand that the Secretary of State does not have an exact example now, although I am not entirely reassured that I hear him refer mainly to obstacles to alternatives, rather than opportunities, but I want to hear clearly from the Secretary of State that the direct appointment of a chairman of the Supervisory Board is really off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u163	That is a commitment I can make if I know what the alternative is. Mr Lintmeijer has not yet come up with an immediate solution on how it could be done in a good way, a solution which would solve some of the problems I am facing. I want to take a serious look at it, but then there has to be a better alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u164	I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u165	I would now ask the Secretary of State to go ahead with his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u166	I would like to continue the discussion on the more guiding role of the NPO. In the legislative proposal of a coordinating body, the NPO goes to a steering body. Public service broadcasting, despite the many improvements made in recent years, is still too often a collection of loose interests if we look very honestly and carefully. It is good if more thought is given to the importance of the whole in the future. Two examples. I have just mentioned one. How do you handle law management? Are you gonna let every network do that independently, so you get a mess, or are you gonna get more unity in it? I'm very much for the latter. Then there is the second example. How do you deal with diversity and representativeness? There are blind spots now. The traditional broadcasters do not cover the total spectrum well. I imagine that, if you think about the public service broadcasting mission as a whole, you want to do something about that too. It is good if the NPO works from a joint strategy, while preserving the unique powers of the broadcasters. This legislative proposal should provide for this, because without that legislative proposal, the NPO is not in a position to regulate the proper rights from the general public interest for all programmes. Without the openness of the order, which I regulate in the bill, program ideas remain unused and the NPO cannot take targeted action if certain public groups are not served. Without the legal task of the NPO to achieve efficiency, there can be insufficient efficient use of studios and other techniques to increase the budget for programming. Most groups have spoken about the position of broadcasters. A more guiding role of the NPO has implications for the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. Questions have been asked about this in this debate. I would like to emphasise that the powers of the NPO are firmly framed and, as far as I am concerned, remain so. To make that concrete, it is good to start with the guarantees that exist in the law. The first guarantee is that some of you have already referred to this Article 2.88. Mrs Bikker, for example, asked about this. Article 2.88 ensures the editorial autonomy traditionally enjoyed by broadcasters. This bill doesn't change that. This is and remains enshrined in the Media Act. Secondly, the NPO can never create its own programs. We can't do that now, but we can't do that in the new bill. The opinion of the Culture Council went further in this respect. He said, "Give the NPO a transmission authorization." We have deliberately chosen not to do so and thus to keep that balance right. That is a certainty for the broadcasters. The draft law does not change the fundamental protection of the editorial autonomy provided by Article 2.88. Also in the context of the openness of the system provided for in the legislative proposal, Article 2.88 ensures that broadcasters as co-producer are ultimately responsible for the editorial form and content. The Court has also asked questions about the relationship between 2.88 and the frameworks that the NPO can put in relation to the access of external parties. I will be happy to come back to that later, because I have the impression that that is essential. But I am not going to go any further until I have taken a run-in and give a little bit more about the other safeguards in the law and about the interplay that public service broadcasting will always have between programming and production. In addition to Article 2.88 there are other safeguards which protect the position of broadcasting in the legislative proposal. Let me mention some of them very quickly. For example, the NPO can only ultimately take decisions and make arrangements consistent with the concession policy plan and the profiles of the supply channels. They are always established in close involvement and after intensive consultation with the broadcasters themselves. So that's really a co-production. Moreover, the NPO is and will remain legally responsible for drawing up a co-ordination regulation. It's in Section 2.57. The broadcasters can always fall back on that. Those are the rules of the game. This is then worked out in a more detailed Radio and Television Handbook to ensure that everyone knows exactly what they are up to. If the NPO and the broadcasters really do not come out together, the possibility of appeal and objection is still open. Moreover, very little use is made of this possibility, three or four times per calendar year. This shows that this usually happens in a very neat and good way. Since 1995, there has been only three appeals. In the stories I hear, it sometimes seems as if decision-making on programmes takes place on the basis of personal taste and randomness. The interests of broadcasters would be completely ignored. With this explanation I wanted to show that in my view this is by no means the case, not now and not later, nor should it be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u167	I would like to come back to the external parties that can come up with ideas. These ideas should then be implemented through the broadcasters. I have read in the answers that broadcasters have to do things within the frameworks that the NPO itself sets for, for example, the budget, the format, the substantive frameworks and the rights. These substantive frameworks are very close to the editorial direction. That line is very thin. What is the difference between editorial autonomy and the substantive frameworks? Can the Secretary of State answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u168	Article 2.88 deals with editorial autonomy. It is important to note that this editorial autonomy is not absolute. It says literally: "Without prejudice to the provisions of this law or under this law." This means that the editorial autonomy of a broadcaster is framed by a number of other agreements contained in the same Media Act. Let me give you an example. With a tighter task, a broadcaster cannot say that it does not have a message, because it is completely editorially autonomous, and that it thus continues to make flat entertainment and does not care about anything. The role of the NPO must also be respected. This has a role to play in overall programming, in connection with networks and in network profiles. All that has been properly incorporated into the law. The editorial autonomy of broadcasters must fit in. So it's always a creative game between programming on the one hand and producing on the other. Maybe I can give you an example. We're working with schematics and time slots. The NPO asks the broadcasters to sign in. Many of these time slots are overdrawn; there are sometimes two, sometimes three or sometimes more programme ideas and several broadcasters saying they want to do something at some point. Then we look at which idea fits best on this channel, which target group one still wants to reach and what the look and feel of a particular program should be. A choice is made and agreements are made. If a broadcaster gets assigned to it, she gets to work. And then, within these agreements, it is completely autonomous to give form and substance to that programme. Mrs Bikker asked that most emphatically in the first term. She asked where the NPO is in this process: at the front or at the back? The NPO is therefore at the front, when agreements are made on rights, format and costs. In the case of production, broadcasters are completely autonomous. Then we also assume that they will abide by those agreements. That's actually the essence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u169	So the Secretary of State says that the substantive frameworks come to the front. So they are not about the editorial content at all, but they have all kinds of other aspects in them. They are therefore different from the pure content of the message that will be broadcast once the broadcaster has been commissioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u170	I'm getting a little confused. The Secretary of State has always referred to Article 2.88 throughout the reply and also in the further reply. I even called it a mantra. Article 2.88 is set out in the 2008 Act. However, the Secretary of State is now introducing a new law, but always says that this independence and substantive autonomy are guaranteed thanks to Article 2.88. But now he says that, of course, it says that this has to be looked at under the law. When the 2008 law is amended, this means that Article 2.88 is no longer a reference to the 2008 law but to the new law. But that is precisely what has been raised in the debate on how independent the media can still be. How independent are the broadcasters? The Secretary of State himself mentioned all the nice, small, external parties that come up with a nice idea. However, these are never one-sided things. That's content and that's "content," as it's called nowadays. For example, the NPO could say: we like that you are going to do that and it really seems to us to do something about the VARA or BNN or something. But that is of course already content. There's no other way. So I have a little difficulty with the Secretary of State always referring to 2.88 and saying that thanks to that article freedom is guaranteed, but that 2.88 must be interpreted in the context of the new law which is structuralally changing the situation. It's one of two; that's how it gets very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u171	I'm gonna do everything I can to get back at him again. Article 2.88 does not change. That article is based on editorial autonomy on form and content, without prejudice to what is stated in the Media Act. In fact, the Media Act is changing things. But even now agreements are already being made at the front, partly on the content. As far as the composition of schematics is concerned, so is it. This will also be the case in the new situation, if we work with ideas from outside. In fact, I had the strong impression that Mrs Sent and Mrs Bikker referred to the fact that the NPO and the broadcasters had agreed on a good way of working on this. They sent me a letter on 30 September. It contains the following on co-production. "The NPO can make more or less agreements with an external party on format, budget, rights and provisional substantive frameworks. A broadcaster is asked as soon as possible whether it is interested," et cetera et cetera. "Applications may subsequently adapt the provisionally established frameworks in the further development of the proposal, subject to the consent of the NPO." The latter is an important phrase that I would also like to give to Mrs Sent. Those were the rules under which both the NPO and the broadcasters signed up. We discussed this very extensively in the House of Representatives. There was a motion by Heerma-Segers that said: take this as a starting point for the programming process, because the parties in Hilversum agree on that. I have replied in full. As far as I'm concerned, that deal still stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u172	When you read back the texts, it seems as if Article 2.88 is being laid down as some sort of constitution. This is about the autonomy of the broadcasters about the content. It'll be untouchable. The State Secretary therefore refers to the 2008 law. Now there is an amendment to that law and it appears that Article 2.88 must now be interpreted in the context of the amendment of that law. That is a bit annoying, because the Secretary of State has always suggested in the texts that the amendment of the law would not affect the meaning of Article 2.88. But it does. That is what the Secretary of State says very explicitly himself now. I think that this is a rather essential change in the meaning to be given to it, because in doing so, despite everything he and the NPO say about it, the Secretary of State is nevertheless making the hardness of autonomy about the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u173	I think Mr Schnabel and I are both right. Article 2.88 does not change. If it says in Article 2.88 "without prejudice to the frameworks of this law" and changes the law, then its effect will change. Perhaps I could give Mr Schnabel the following. Article 2.88 deals with the preliminary testing of programmes. The article aims to create a dam for preventive censorship, so that the government cannot monitor the journalistic content of programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u174	I do not know if the Secretary of State has noticed, but the intention of the further reply was to reassure us with a reference to Article 2.88. What he is doing now is worrying us about the deeper meaning of Article 2.88 in the context of the amendment of the law. I would like to make that clear, because it also helps to get a picture of the consequences that the new law will have in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u175	In my view, it is paradoxical that outside producers and the NPO make agreements which also affect the substantive framework and that broadcasters only see what lies with them as an outside producer. If they then want changes to those appointments, they have to go straight back to the NPO. What is the value of Article 2.88? In the answer of the Secretary of State on the concession policy plan, which he first praised, he says: one has to go straight back to the NPO. I think that Article 2.88 is being interpreted very thinly whether it does not matter anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u176	I'm trying to give some insight into the way that production process goes. A cultural programme is agreed: the target group you want to reach, a collaboration that may be entered into with a museum or other cultural institution, a format and a number of substantive frameworks. If a broadcaster will then produce it, with or without a party from outside, then the makers are completely free, in the subjects they address, in the guests they invite, what they are praised for and what they are critical of. That is the editorial autonomy, which, of course, is very closely linked to freedom of expression. We want a multiform public service broadcasting system that shows different sounds and not a station that is a kind of station manager of the NPO or just one particular sound. In this respect, Article 2.88 is fundamental to guarantee the editorial autonomy of broadcasters. I notice that we are having a huge discussion about it. What surprises me is that the NPO and the broadcasters actually made a work agreement that they both said: that's how we want to do it. As a result of the Heerma-Segers motion I said to the House of Representatives: fine, then I am not going to go any further and we are going to take that as a starting point. I think that letter of 30 September is a good way of working out what this law is about. This now seems to have come up against objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u177	I can explain that. The State Secretary wrote a letter on his findings in the concession policy plan on which the NPO and the broadcasters agreed. There he says: if there is a change in the cooperation between outside producer and broadcaster, this must be reported directly to the NPO and approval must be granted. That is where the concern lies, and that is also what is changing in relation to the concession policy plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u178	Then let me take that misunderstanding away immediately. I think Mrs Bikker has a point that the textual version is different from the letter of 30 September. I'm putting my hand into my own bosom. I'm just gonna take what's in that letter literally. As far as I am concerned, that is the starting point. By the way, it says: "provided that the NPO can agree to this change'. I think parties just need to see how you do it in a good way. Because of course it is also a shame if you change the agreements after you put a lot of money into a production and when the NPO says about the agreements: this is something quite different than we had agreed on the front. Then all that money is spent. In this sense, it is a good thing that parties are able to switch quickly. This also has to do with the role of independent producers. They have said: if we come up with a good idea, then we are quite willing to co-produce with one of the broadcasters, but we also want to have a little certainty that the agreements we have made on the front can't just be trampled on. So in that sense, it offers certainty to all parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u179	I have a question in between. Does the space and freedom so highlighted by the Secretary of State also apply to the presenters who would like to attract them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u180	In my eyes, yes. I know that a number of examples have been cited in the hearing. If an appointment is made by the NPO with a broadcaster about a programme that must have a certain profile, for example a youth programme at NPO 3, and then the broadcaster comes up with Koos Postema, then I can imagine that you will have a discussion or that is in line with the agreements you made at the front. If it fits within the substantive frameworks that have been created at the front, the broadcasting is, in my view, completely free.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u181	So all those names we've gotten from people and all those people who have also reported themselves, who are either too dark, or too white, or too old or too young, or too wrinkly? That doesn't fit the profile and so it can't. Well, that's clear. Another point, however. I refer to the letter from the NPO and the broadcasters together. What has happened is that, during the discussion with the experts in December, Mr Timmer, on behalf of the broadcasters, has taken a clear stand on various issues now being advocated in the law. He did so because he said that the further clarification on the part of the Secretary of State after the debate on the other side, in the Lower House, as well as in the answer to the Upper Chamber, is no longer in line with what we expect. This affects, for example, entertainment and the freedom of broadcasters. That is why the broadcasters said in December: this is not the law that we might be able to deal with with with pain and difficulty; this is going to be a completely different story. That's what they said here. I would like to present the text to you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u182	I have seen this, and I have looked at it with some surprise, because I do not fully agree with what has been said by the broadcasters. I am also surprised that they first say that they agree with the law and put forward a proposal on 30 September, how they intend, together with the NPO, to shape the opening-up of the system in a responsible manner, and then come back to that again three or four months later. I see that too, and I deeply regret it. As far as I am concerned, the proposal submitted to me by the CoR, the joint broadcasters, together with the NPO, on 30 September, is still the starting point for work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u183	So you acknowledge that you later explained the initial ambition of the law in such a way that the broadcasters can no longer recognize themselves in it and you take back your explanation? You're saying I'm going back to the beginning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u184	No, Mr. Chairman. I disagree. It has always been my intention to give shape to that effect along the lines I have agreed with the House of Representatives. I can read it to you again. These agreements are made by the NPO and involve broadcasters as soon as possible, with the possibility of changing those agreements, provided that the NPO can agree to the adjustment. I think Mrs Sent mentioned the only thing that may have deviated from what is literally written here. I think I used the word "immediately" somewhere. Well, I'll take that back. That is what I have just said, but for me the letter of 30 September from the broadcasters and NPO together is the guiding principle by which we can work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u185	Mr Atsma, on this point for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u186	I thought that Mrs Sent, particularly in the media in December, expressed her opinion on what we should now be referring to as entertainment. From what you initially suggested that it could be done, you took back something, and for that reason, among other reasons, the broadcasters have said: we are no longer in favour of this. This is still separate from the debate on the space that the broadcasters should have. You blame them for changing their position, but that's because they blame you for not being straight. The truth must be somewhere in the middle, but if you are very keen that the broadcasters are going to join in, then I would imagine that you would go back to your original views. At least that could help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u187	We're gonna talk about entertainment later. I do not think I have taken a different view on this at all. We will discuss this in greater detail later. We are now talking about how the NPO and the broadcasters operate and how that works. They sent us a letter about that. I would point out that I still see this letter as a starting point. As far as I'm concerned, there can be no murmur on that either. Then, I think, that's a good line of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u188	Just before the report, it was Mrs Bikker who expressed concern about the word 'once'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u189	Oh, excuse me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u190	I share those concerns with her, but she was the one she raised. I would like to go back to the plea at the beginning of the State Secretary's speech for creative competition rather than administrative competition. When I hear all these discussions and the expert meeting like this, I cannot escape the impression that there is more administrative competition here and that the creative competition will be snowed under. Does the Secretary of State share that view? And if so, what consequences does he have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u191	No, I don't share that view, Mr. Chairman. I think there is now a lot of discussion about how to work. I understand that, too. There is always a lot of discussion about legislative changes and there is always lobbying on the right and the left to do the weather a little differently, and a little sister and a little bit like that. I am really convinced that, if this law is passed and we are going to work along the road proposed jointly by the broadcasters and the NPO in the letter of 30 September, that cooperation can be done in a flexible and excellent way and that it can contribute to increasing pluralism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u192	I now give the Secretary of State the opportunity to go a little further in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u193	I think we have already discussed a great deal about the programming process, Article 2.88, on the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters, the essence of which is the letter of 30 September. A number of questions have been asked. Mr Ten Hoeve said: fun, objection and appeal, but how is it going to be if, for example, certain rejections only happen orally? If a broadcaster needs it, a rejection can always be justified in writing so that appeal and objection can be lodged. Actually, you don't want it to come to that and we also see in practice that this doesn't happen or hardly does. Mr Atsma asked how external pluralism relates to the opening-up of the system. In my view, these two can work very well side by side. I have already indicated that the Humanist Broadcasting has been recognised during this concession period, but that does not preclude the accession of third parties. I think they can reinforce each other and that that only leads to more pluralism. Mr Nagel explicitly asked for a response to what the Bureau sent to Stibbe. I think it's just wrong. We have been advised by the best legal advisers on that point. If I may quote something: I believe it was Mr Van Eijk who was very critical of the public hearings in a number of parts, but literally also said that it is quite wrong that the tightening up of responsibilities in this particular legislative proposal as such would be contrary to Article 7 of the Constitution or Article 10 of the ECHR. His words, his quote, but something I fully share. Mrs Krikke asked about the position of independent television producers and about the agreement between independent producers and broadcasters. By the way, the NPO is also involved in this. In the covenant agreements are made in the context of the opening up of the system and rights. I understand that independent television producers and broadcasters have already come close to each other. I hope they come to a final agreement soon. This, too, can restore peace and stability to work in the future. Then there was a question from Mrs Bikker whether it all leads to more bureaucracy. No, not in my eyes. We just need to figure out that gordian knot. I think this is workable, all the more so because we choose a way of working on which the broadcasters and the NPO agree. Then I wanted to move on to the next topic and that is the tightening up of the media assignment. There is actually a specific question from Mrs Sent about entertainment, but also a number of more general questions, for example from Mr Nagel, about what are the general values that are constantly being discussed. We're moving towards core tasks. I keep talking about public values; what exactly is that? You have to see that on the basis of two lines, starting with programs that distinguish themselves along the line of what is being made. The draft law amends that the public service broadcasting mission is to create programmes that serve an informative, cultural or educational purpose. I think that's public targets. The second line from which you can distil public values are the values to which Mr Schnabel referred: quality, independence, pluralism and accessibility. As far as I am concerned, the combination of these two creates the public values on which public service broadcasting should focus. The Council of State would have said that entertainment should stay above all else. I really do read that differently. By the way, this bill does not prohibit entertainment. It is very clearly stated that entertainment can be a means of contributing to the core tasks of public service broadcasting. This line is very similar to the agreements made in Flanders. A new management agreement has been concluded which states that leisure and entertainment must also contribute to the other objectives of public service broadcasting, namely information, culture and education. They just use a slightly different terminology for that, but I do see great similarities with the step we want to take with this bill. So how does it work and what do we ask of public service broadcasting? We are already working on a kind of review framework. This will have to be adapted to the new task of public service broadcasting. The law states clearly when entertainment can be used, namely in two ways: as a vehicle to pay attention to information, culture and education, think of edutainment and infotainment; you can come up with the programs that go with it or as a means to bind hard-to-reach target groups and then seduce them to look at programmes that have more depth. In this relationship too, entertainment is used very strongly as a means of achieving an end. In my opinion, this middle-purpose relationship is clearly enshrined in the law. Mrs. Sent asked: if you ask the public service broadcaster, I did that rather firmly in my first letter to the NPO.......................................................................................................................................................................................... I thought Mrs. Sent had a point. I sat around the table with the NPO and said: if you can't prove that one-on-one in terms of causality, how can you prove something more than just the flow of viewers? Of course, there are always viewers who linger a bit. Then you can say they've been watching both programs. If we use that as a review framework, nothing will change at all. So something more needs to be done than just that. It's possible. There is extensive electorate-- I mean extensive viewer survey; I'm making the same mistake again. There's a lot of distractions from that. I am confident that the NPO is going to make an extreme effort to make it very plausible that this is perhaps not a causal link and to establish a strong correlation between the core tasks of public service broadcasting, namely information, culture and education, and the use of entertainment. Mrs Sent asked for a commitment on this point along the lines she herself expressed. I do not think I have a word to add. I come to the issue of philosophy, which is an important point of the Christian Union, the SGP and also the CDA. It is, of course, still part of the task of public service broadcasting, also with reference to the mission itself. It is good to see that all philosophical movements have found shelter with one of the broadcasters after the legal termination of the budget and the independence of the 2.42 broadcasters. The law also instructs public service broadcasting to reflect, in its media coverage, the beliefs, views and interests of the population in terms of philosophy. That is really what public service broadcasting is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u194	In fact, the Secretary of State says that broadcasting philosophical programmes is an integral part of the public media mission. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u195	Mrs Bikker understood that correctly. I just quoted the legal text in which it can be read back. Of course, this also has to do with diversity, which I know is very important for GroenLinks. Diversity has also been appointed by the board of directors of the NPO as a spearhead for the coming years. The NPO wants to play an important and binding role with its programmes, including by being a balanced reflection of society. Precise programs about different philosophical and religious movements in that society can lead to insight and understanding for each other. This function of public service broadcasting is all the more important at this time. Perhaps Mrs Bikker is even more reassured that, in addition to this, there is also a concrete assurance that philosophical programmes will be made. This leads back to the motion of Segers and Bishop in the Lower House in which a specific amount has been earmarked for this explicit purpose. I'd like to continue with the questions about the region. We have talked a lot about national broadcasters, but regional broadcasters deserve special attention as well. These are important, especially in order to monitor critically local and regional democracy, the often mentioned watchdog function, but also to report on important events and events in the region. Regional broadcasters also face major challenges. They are dealing with a declining range, a sometimes somewhat outdated audience and the need to achieve a number of cuts without affecting programming, as I would prefer to see. Like national public service broadcasting, they must respond to the changes in media use and the media landscape. It is therefore not self-evident that there is a strong regional public news service and that the offer is seen and heard by the public. This is why the cabinet, together with the ROOS Foundation, the umbrella of thirteen individual regional broadcasters, wants to make the regional media more effective and efficient. As far as I am concerned, regional news is getting stronger, effective governance is being created and cuts are being made through more cooperation, so that the viewers and listeners will ultimately see as little of it as possible. I am therefore pleased that, together with ROOS, the regional broadcasters and the provinces, a proposal has been put forward for the design of regional public service broadcasting in the future. This proposal is based on the ROOS plan and ensures that that plan can be implemented. The ambition of the ROOS plan also appeals to me: the combination of strong local and regional journalism, the capillaries of regional societies, with decisiveness and shared facilities at the back where possible. So what are we gonna do about this bill and what's gonna be in the next bill? There will be a legislative proposal in the course of this year which is actually much more about the region than this bill. The proposal we are discussing today takes a first step towards achieving a more efficient regional broadcasting organisation. There will be one single concession to perform the public media mission at regional level and one concessionaire, the Regional Public Broadcasting (RPO). That first step is needed to ensure that the RPO can actually use the current year 2016 to achieve, together with the thirteen broadcasters, the 17 million cuts that we have already established in this house. In other words, the cuts have been made, but we must now make it possible for regional broadcasters to process them in a way that does not immediately affect programming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u196	There is, of course, a major problem with this austerity; that is clear. It is generally said that it is not possible for the austerity to leave the journalistic task untouched. That was originally the intention of the Secretary of State. Moreover, it seems impossible at the moment to complete this task altogether in this year. Even if you include journalism, that's impossible. Does the Secretary of State intend to find a solution to this problem? Does he intend, for example, to give regional broadcasters a little more time to do so? I haven't heard anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u197	I can say something about that. Of course, the regional broadcasters have known for a long time that this cut is coming. There are also many plans and accounts that show that working with five clusters and with shared services, the cuts can be met to a large extent. That will, of course, always depend on how that takes shape in practice. The only reason for any delay is the fact that this bill was intended to be carried through the Upper House in December. Because of the many questions and the concerns that were there, we have taken a little more time to arrive at careful parliamentary treatment. I think it is fair to say that regional broadcasters should not be the victims of this. We must tell the regional broadcasters that they must not be the victims of the fact that we have taken two months to go through this carefully. So I've been talking to ROOS about that. If this leads to more friction costs, I'm willing to take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u198	The Secretary of State says that if this bill is passed, we will decide that the RPO will be the only organisation left. Does this mean that we will no longer escape the abolition of individual organisations in the regions? Is that the inevitable consequence of a decision that we could make now? I already asked that question in my first term. I think that question is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u199	The answer to that is no. Mr Ten Hoeve has rightly pointed out that the legislative proposal on this issue does not actually contain much provision for the region. Both the individual designation and the individual funding remain. In this sense, the legislative proposal is independent. It provides an independent supervisory board and a management board for the thirteen regional broadcasters, as stated in the ROOS plan. It is also important for the future of the RPO to be able to work better together. The answer to the final question as to whether we are going to continue with independent regional broadcasters or not is something that needs to be regulated in the legislative proposal that will be discussed later this year. The Chamber knows what my intention is in this area, which way we are going and what is in the ROOS plan. That will be no surprise to the Chamber either. However, this legislative proposal does not yet provide for any regulation in this area. In fact, only a very small hook is provided that makes it possible for the RPO to prepare some things as a sort of quartermaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u200	In addition to the previous question, I would like to ask the Secretary of State the following. What happens if this bill is not passed? What are the consequences for the follow-up and for the RPO? I realize the question has just been asked the other way around, but I'm putting it this way. I would like to hear what the consequences for the RPO would be if this bill were not adopted. Then how do we proceed with the RPO?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u201	If this bill is not passed, there will be no RPO. Then the ROOS plan cannot be executed. There is therefore no way of achieving efficiency, an efficiency blow that will ensure that shared services and clusters are used, which will make it possible to cope with this 17 million cut in a responsible way in my view. In that case, the amount will be allocated to broadcasters and, in my view, it will go directly into programming. That is why I think it is important that this bill should be adopted. This also enables regional broadcasters to make that cut in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u202	I have two questions for the Secretary of State. He said at the beginning of the evening everything about the undesirableness of the appointments that are now there. Should this bill be passed, does the Secretary of State intend to use the appointments that have yet to begin at the RPO "new style"? The second question concerns the following. The Secretary of State has just said that he believes that regional broadcasters should not be the victims of the delays that have occurred here, and that he also wants to make a financial contribution to preventing them. How's he gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u203	I would have preferred a new supervisory board to be appointed by 1 January, but that was not possible because the law had not yet been passed. The basis for the appointment of the new Supervisory Board was therefore not present. If this bill is passed, I want to make meters with that appointment as soon as possible. Indeed, that supervisory board should appoint a new board and that board should ultimately implement the reorganisation that is necessary to enable that efficiency to be achieved. Mrs Gerkens asked if this new appointment would go in the new way. I have already said that a reflection of how we could appoint supervisory councils in a different way requires time. We do not have that time for the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the RPO. That board of directors really just needs to get to work fast. I believe that this appointment can be made in a very transparent way, namely with public profiles. They're already open. There have already been application procedures. There is the appointment advisory committee, which also has to include a number of people from the region who have feelings with what is needed for the Supervisory Board of the RPO. This really requires other people than a supervisory board of national public service broadcasting. This is being conducted right now. In my view, this guarantees that there will soon be a supervisory board that can operate independently and for which an open and transparent procedure has taken place. But that supervisory board needs to get to work quickly, otherwise we are not going to make it to collect the 17 million in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u204	I asked a second question. How is funding regulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u205	I talked to ROOS about that. There's been a two-month delay. Maybe it's a little bit more; we should be a little flexible in that too. The costs can be met by the current reserves of the public service broadcasters. However, these reserves should also have been used to cover a number of friction costs. This increases the budget for these friction costs. I have promised that OCW will reasonably cover those friction costs. We have done the same with national public service broadcasting. In this sense, regional public service broadcasting should not be affected by the fact that we are doing a little longer here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u206	I had already understood that the regional broadcasters with the reserve budgets could now absorb those costs. However, this money is probably also needed to solve other problems. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that, in any event, regional broadcasting will not end up in financial difficulties due to this delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u207	That's my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u208	In the context of the aforementioned discussion, I would like to return to the appointment of the regulators of regional broadcasters. We've changed a lot of cases now. As far as I know, that's not a course yet. Is it possible to involve the regions more in this process, which is an express wish of the regions? I also understood that the NPO's appointment advisory committee also has a role to play in relation to regional broadcasters. It would be good, while we still can, to avoid going the same way again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u209	Yes, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u210	Does Mr Ten Hoeve have a subsequent question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u211	Yeah, actually, I do. I understood that advertisements have already appeared before the Supervisory Board of the RPO. We've already got candidates there. The appointment of the Supervisory Board of the RPO by the Minister is even less obvious than that of the NPO. That is, of course, in line with Mr Atsma's question. Is the selection now made taking into account a regional constituency, knowledge of the situation there and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u212	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u213	Mrs Teunissen has a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u214	I just heard the Secretary of State say that the regional broadcasters are not affected by the delay. But if this bill is not passed, then there is even more delay. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that regional broadcasters are not the victims of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u215	In the latter case, of course, it will be a different story. Because if this bill is not passed, the whole plan will be delayed and another alternative will come into effect, namely that there will be no NPO and that every regional broadcaster will have to solve it itself. I think that's at the expense of programming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u216	The other questions, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u217	A further question was about the current appointment procedure. Mr Ten Hoeve was right to ask whether the regional contribution would be taken into account. Yeah, that happens in two ways. An advisory committee of three members has been set up, with the chairman of the previous procedure, but two people have been opposed: a former deputy and, from my mind, a former member of the supervisory board of a regional broadcaster, precisely in order to bring about more knowledge and expertise of the province and regional broadcasting sector and thus to make a proper assessment. The profiles are fundamentally different: there are really other people wanted than for the NPO. You'll read that back in there. In fact, at the time, the House of Representatives specifically asked me to include aspects of Friesland to ensure that they are properly secured in the future Supervisory Board. I trust there will be a presentation from a number of candidates who will meet that profile.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u218	In short, Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u219	There is another specific question in this regard. The IPO has suggested that the IPO itself should be appointed to the Supervisory Board in the future. Now that there is a need to consider a new appointment procedure for the Supervisory Board of the NPO, this could and should perhaps be done for this Supervisory Board. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider alternative ways of appointment in order to take it away from the national authorities and deposit it elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u220	I'd like to take all of that with me, including the reconnaissance we're going to do. But there are also many objections to this. Because what you get is that it doesn't become an independent supervisory board, but that the different interests are going to appoint people on such a supervisory board, whereas we want it to function independently as a whole. I'd like to map that, but with the pros and cons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u221	I would actually like to mention the same point that I raised earlier in the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the NPO and the interference of the Secretary of State with it. Here again there are two weaknesses: the appointment advisory committee is composed and appointed by the minister and the opinion is non-binding. Will specific attention be given here to these two weaknesses in the broad exploration promised by the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u222	That seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u223	Would Mr Atsma like to ask another question? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u224	That is the procedure for the appointment of the RPO. Mr Atsma asked why one national concession and not twelve regional concessions. That also has to do with efficiency. Moreover, the current designation procedures are currently organised per broadcaster, which means that, although the indications have the same duration, they exist at very different times. That's what makes it difficult. After the first concession period, this cabinet considers it desirable for regional broadcasting to be flexible in its choice of care areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u225	Bearing in mind the words of the Secretary of State at the beginning of his speech, namely that he attaches great importance to the fact that in each province the guarantee is given that at least one RPO may be available, I ask him the following. What would be against that, because I am actually testing from the Secretary of State's explanatory statement that this may be an open question after this concession period? Well, we're at the point where we can settle that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u226	I think this is not the point where we can settle it, but that is the point of the forthcoming bill. In addition, you can always make the agreement that at least at provincial level there is always a regional broadcaster. At the same time, I also know that there are discussions in the region that say: we want to see if we can bring regional broadcasting into line with areas that are more connected, such as the Achterhoek or the Betuwe, which are parts of provinces. As far as I'm concerned, we're keeping that flexibility in place. That seems to me to be an excellent discussion, which we can include in the next legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u227	But the suggestion that a concession period should be indicated per province for the own regional broadcasting will, of course, provide a bit of assurance towards the provinces and towards regional broadcasting. And it doesn't cost anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u228	There's another way to settle these securities. I think it would be extremely helpful to move from twelve applications and procedures that end at different times with a lot of paperwork to a national concession, with, of course, independent editorials and broadcasting channels within the provinces. Mr Atsma asked about the disaster function of regional broadcasting. This proposal does not change that. Also in the next legislative proposal on specific regional broadcasting there is no intention to change that. Mrs Bikker said that it is not clear whether this bill is a vehicle for more cuts within the region. Well, that's absolutely not the intention. It is a vehicle to be able to record the savings that have been made in an earlier bill by this Chamber. A number of questions have been asked about Friesland. If you look at what this bill determines and regulates at this point, it is important that we have sufficient time to discuss a number of concerns with the province itself. A few months ago I sat around the table with the deputy and also last night I spoke to her again, and I agreed with her that we will soon be back around the table. It is my intention to come up with a good governance agreement, in which we make concrete agreements on how we can ensure programming for the Frisian language and culture area, including towards the future, both in terms of content and financial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u229	I have heard many times that the Secretary of State is going to table with the province of Fryslân, but I do not see any results yet. When does the Secretary of State intend to present that board agreement? The province has been waiting a long time for the promising agreements that are always promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u230	Nevertheless, with the province I have set out a very nice timetable for this. We are supposed to reach an agreement on this this this spring, so that it runs in parallel with the bill that goes to the Chamber. I can imagine that the Chamber would like to know which way it is going, what it is going to look like and whether there is still time to reach good agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u231	It seems to me to be a perfect commitment to have that included in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u232	I have a supplementary question. The Secretary of State always talks about the programming for Friesland. In Friesland, however, it is explicitly asked not only to look at programming, but also to look at embedding in the public order. Does the Secretary of State also talk to the delegates about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u233	Yeah, it's one of the points on the table. At the same time, I think that we should carefully consider how to ensure administrative security without the Omrop Fryslân avoiding the contributions I also ask of Friesland in the clustering and in the efficiency that needs to be achieved in the back office. It is really necessary to prevent the cuts from getting into things that affect the viewers and listeners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u234	Mr Ten Hoeve, one short question. I shall then suspend this sitting, because there is talk everywhere and there is no proper consideration of what the Secretary of State says. Either they listen to what the Secretary of State says, so there can be a suspension afterwards, or I'm suspending now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u235	I got one more time. Friesland needs to participate in the cuts. Obviously, Friesland can't escape that. Of course, the most efficient way of doing this is to be found. In itself, that separate arrangements for organizational embedding should not, of course, stand in the way. The Secretary of State agrees with me on that, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u236	No, you don't have to. Nor is it necessarily necessary for a director of his own to remain with his own supervisory board and so on to ensure programming for the Frisian language and culture area. This does not fit in with the ROOS plan either. I want to see how we can do things right. I also try to agree with the province of Friesland on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u237	Then, of course, the key question to the Secretary of State is how far he wants to go on that point. The fact that Friesland has its own responsibility and perhaps also comes up with resources is one. How far does the Secretary of State intend to go with that particular question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u238	I'm really going for the content. I think it is a question of whether we can ensure for the people, the viewers and listeners in Friesland that programmes that pay attention to the Frisian language and culture are well secured, now and in the future. I find its organisation much less interesting and important. I sometimes have the impression that maintaining independence is becoming more of a prestige issue for some people. Let us try to keep an eye on the ball and to see how we can ensure the content by means of good administrative arrangements and allow organisational issues to be leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u239	In the case of national public service broadcasting, you have focused a lot of arrows on the organisation and on the way in which things should be organized. I still think two thoughts are being hacked into. You heard the room. There were quite a few people who were sympathetic to the idea in that regard. So my question remains as to how far the Secretary of State intends to go. That'll help, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u240	As far as I'm concerned, that's all open on the table. I'm not gonna make any promises right now. Nor am I going to say taboos. I want the organisational issue to be a guiding principle on the content, even if it has to be about the content. How we then shape and decorate it is of secondary importance. Mr Lintmeijer has asked me to investigate local broadcasting. There are discussions about professionalisation and earlier we have made a financial contribution to the media hub. I am aware of the desire to increase the number of regional broadcasters, to scale up the sometimes small, vulnerable local broadcasters and to cooperate more. This year, the Media Commission is investigating the funding of local broadcasting by municipalities. I undertake to forward the results and the reaction to them to the House of Representatives, if necessary, with a copy to the House of First Instance. Then I would like to take Mr Schnabel's point concerning the position of AT5, the strongest local broadcaster. At the end of last year, I received an opinion from the Culture Council on this position. I think the letter I'm going to write is the right place to address the issue of AT5. I come to the final points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u241	I have a brief question about regional broadcasting. The Secretary of State says the content should be paramount. However, I see that a 17 million cut is being started. It then examines how it should be designed. What does the Secretary of State do if it appears that the quality of the programming is reduced as a result of the budget cut?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u242	That's a like-dan question. I assume that this does not have to be the case if the plans and calculations of the joint public service broadcasters are properly implemented. This reorganisation is based on an investigation report by the regional broadcasters. This shows that the majority can be obtained from shared services and the formation of clusters. Then that just doesn't happen. I say immediately that they themselves are responsible for the proper way in which they act. We are helping them by setting the frameworks and by making this possible, including through this legislative proposal. Finally, the question of transparency has been asked. I do not think we need to ignore the fact that the cabinet takes a different view on this matter than the majority of the House of Representatives. A motion has been tabled to shape transparency, not at the level of the programmes, but at the level of genres and domains. That is the step the NPO itself had taken. We'll take that as a starting point. I asked in the debate with the House of Representatives how to deal with concrete questions on issues that may arise during the course of this year. Let me give you two examples: the football rights and the King's song. On this basis, the Court has stated that there may be exceptional circumstances in which it would like to know more about costs. For proper parliamentary consideration, she would like to have information on this matter. The Labour Party argues that a broadcaster has a duty to provide such information. In my view, the Media Act contains several articles that make it clear that the NPO and the broadcasters have a duty to do so in such cases. I will read the relevant articles to you. Article 2.15, paragraph 1, states: The NPO shall provide the Minister, on request, with all information relating to the activities of the NPO. The second paragraph of that article states: Our Minister may require access to the business details and documents of the NPO to the extent necessary for the performance of his duties. The first paragraph of Article 2.178 states that the national and regional public media institutions shall set up their organisation in such a way as to ensure proper organisation, management and control of the business process. The second paragraph of that article states: The national and regional public media institutions carry out a sound administration from which at any time our minister, the board of directors and the Commissariat can obtain the information they need to carry out their tasks in a clear manner. This last article first obliges the media institutions to organise the organisation in such a way as to ensure proper organisation, management and control of the business processes. In addition, the article in paragraph 2 obliges media institutions to conduct a proper administration from which the Minister, NPO or Commissariat can each obtain the information necessary for the performance of their duties. If we translate that into the obligation to provide information under Article 68 of the Constitution, which obliges directors to provide the Chambers with the information they require, then I can draw no other conclusion than that, in the chain-setting of all those legal provisions, we can provide for the need for the House of Representatives to obtain certain information in specific cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u243	Article 2.15, which the State Secretary has read out, states that the NPO must provide information on the activities of the NPO. In my opinion, this does not mean that the costs incurred by broadcasters' programmes should be covered by an obligation to provide information. Article 2.178, which has also been read out by the Secretary of State, deals with something else, namely a sound administration. The cost of a programme does not play a role in this either, because it is independent of proper administration. I cannot therefore conclude from those two articles of the Media Act that broadcasters should be forced to make available the costs of individual programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u244	It is not just a question of costs for individual programmes but of all the information requested by the House of Representatives on specific cases. In the two examples I have just mentioned, it was not at all about programme costs but about specific productions. There was a social debate about this; the Chamber wanted to know exactly what was going on. In my view, we have, of course, had all kinds of lawyers look at this too, and the NPO and the broadcasters are obliged to provide that information. I would also like it in itself, because in many of these cases you can play it away immediately, because then there is not so much going on. Here's what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna tell Mrs. Sent. Before I make strict agreements with the NPO about this, I will submit the frameworks to the House of Representatives anyway. Then I can discuss again how the desirability of this construct is seen there at all. I will also have the legal reasoning I have just read check again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u245	Mrs Sent, briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u246	Can the Secretary of State present this to us as well? Can he share it with us, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u247	I can certainly send the First Chamber a copy of that. Mr Schalk of the SGP asked me about the commercials of the dating site Second Love. According to Mr Schalk, the site encourages cheating, with all the consequences. I have not escaped the fact that the SGP has serious moral objections to this. This is a discussion that also takes place in Hilversum itself, where one of the DJ's I think Joram Kaat of 3FM was saying in one of the radio broadcasts that he had difficulty with the commercials. Hilversum is the ideal place for discussion on the moral limits of programmes and advertising. It doesn't suit me to have a ruling on that as a ruler. Mr Schalk challenged me as a human being, but let us not complicate the discussion more than it already is. In any case, I do not want to judge whether this is possible or not. It is primarily up to the advertising code committee to check whether advertising fits within the framework of "the law, the truth, the good taste and the decency." Furthermore, the Star itself determines which advertisements it includes in its blocks: for example, advertisements for sex websites do not, dating sites do. How that works out in the case of Second Love is up to the Star itself. I cannot and will not intervene in this substantive decision. Mr Schalk also made a more political point concerning the work of NICAM and the Watchpoint developed by NICAM. The viewer's assessment of the potential harmfulness of the audiovisual offer provides a guide for the classification of programmes by age categories. In my view, this means that programmes with a lot of sex, violence or harsh language are only broadcast at times when small children are usually on one ear. The Viewing Guide covers the programmes of the public and commercial broadcasters and cinemas, but does not cover commercial advertising between the programmes or the content that is only available digitally via the web. During the legislative consultation on the media budget on 16 November last, the House of Representatives adopted a motion on the proposal of Mr Heerma, which called for a modernisation of the legislation, so that the NICAM watchpoint will apply to audiovisual products on all media platforms, not only for television but also for the Internet and radio. I've indicated that I'll pick that up. In the conversation with the NICAM and the Media Commissioner, we look at how the Viewing Point platform can apply independently to audiovisual products from suppliers registered in the Netherlands; this is a bit like Norwegian example. As a result, I am willing to investigate how the Viewing Pointer can also be applied to advertising on all platforms. This would therefore lead to the extension of the range of programmes to advertising as well. I would like to point out immediately that I do not know to what extent this is going to be a real relief in the specific case that the SGP is taking offense. This will depend on the independent opinion of the NICAM experts on its harmfulness; the NICAM has a kind of scientific committee with all kinds of pedagogical expertise. In any case, Mr Schalk and I agree with each other on the general principle that the principles of the Viewing Pointer are also applicable to digital content and advertising.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u248	It is of course a completely different subject, but it is related to what we are doing tonight, namely making broadcasting future-proof. I understand the Secretary of State doesn't want to judge or sit on the judge's seat. My question was, in fact, whether the Secretary of State recognizes the logical line: we want programmes with more depth and try to introduce education, information and culture there, which is then destroyed by advertising. Does it not make sense, then, to apply the means that we have devised, namely the Watch-View, to the other expressions on that same public service broadcasting, namely advertising?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u249	It is complicated to apply the task of public service broadcasting programmes one-on-one to commercials, because they often have a different purpose, namely selling a product. It not only advertises the Rijksmuseum, school books or something like that. The Viewing Pointer applies to programs and therefore takes into account the time at which something can be broadcast. Mr Schalk is right that a similar test does not apply to advertising. Unlike all kinds of other organizations, the Star is also not a member of the NICAM. So we could look at whether we can build a bridge and follow the consistent line that the criteria applied by the Watchpoint in the context of the protection of young people are being applied across the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u250	Finally, Mr Schalk, on this point. Gradually, I'm looking at the clock, too, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u251	I think it is excellent, Mr President. Then I'll complete my question. We have to do that in one go. The Secretary of State states that the Star is not now a member of the NICAM. If that were to happen, at least the problem I have raised is framed and our children are better protected than they have been up to now. Then the Star will be under the same direction as all programs. My question is this. The Secretary of State just said, "I'm gonna look into it." Could he be a little firmer in there? Is he just gonna promote the star going that way? Does the Secretary of State have a button with which he can arrange that or a route to do so? I'm gonna put another follow-up question on it. The Secretary of State just said: we actually want to do it for the entire platform. Does that also apply to the radio? If you allow the Star to measure what is happening in front of television, then of course we should not talk about having it on the radio again during the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u252	The latter is already included in the implementation of the motion Heerma. It has this effect: it is mainly television now, but based on the new Media Act, which is platform independent, you should apply it to all platforms. So it also applies to the radio, as I say to Mr Schalk. Furthermore, it requires a little more than just joining the Star with the NICAM, because with that connection, the scrutiny of advertising is not immediately a fact. So there will still have to be a battle. The NICAM is a club based on self-regulation. So we really need to talk about it. However, I will make myself felt for it. I think it makes sense to say: it applies to the programmes, so it also applies to the expressions between the programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u253	Meanwhile, may I ask the Secretary of State how much longer he thinks he'll need for the varia?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u254	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u255	Great!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u256	I still have a few short points. Mrs Bik asked how we look at Star revenue and its possible decline. We do not yet have any concrete signs that this is happening. However, for national public service broadcasting there are certain budgetary guarantees. In the light of the Van Dam amendment (33541), No. 34), which entered into force with the first Media Act, the assurance that public service broadcasting will be able to count on an annual minimum budget in the next concession period. In any case, that gives a certain guarantee for that five-year period. In addition, we still have the general media reserve to cope with certain fluctuations. It can never be structural. If it leads to a structural decline, it will have to be revised in a new concession period. However, I believe that this provides sufficient certainty for the current concession period. Mr Nagel asked if there had been any contact with the European Commission. That is not the case. At least I am in contact with the European Commission, but it has never mentioned this, but perhaps it has done so elsewhere in Europe. Moreover, we do not have to submit issues relating to funding. The provisions relating to this service of general economic interest have already been examined by the European Commission at the time of its previous adoption in 2010. That's when things were approved. Mr Kops asked why the number of nets remained unchanged. We need to take account of the changes that are taking place, and we need to look at them more and more, but there is still a need to maintain the three networks. I'm drawing attention to developments. In Britain, for example, less nets have been chosen. At the same time, we see SBS coming up with an increase in the number of nets. I think we should put the initiative in Hilversum ourselves for a while. This brings me to the end of my first-term speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u257	Thank you. A brief suspension has been requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u258	At the request of a large number of political groups, I would ask you to agree to a short suspension for further discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u259	Is a ten-minute suspension enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u260	Something like that, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u261	Secretary of State, the spokesmen have all turned to me to request that the second deadline for the examination of this bill be postponed until 1 March next and that the commitments you made during the debate be put on paper in good time. In this way, everyone can consider in depth what you have promised today and what has been discussed. Anyone can read the Acts. There has been a long debate. Everyone needs to look at it thoroughly and certainly also to see all your commitments on paper. Then we can do the second term. I would ask you to put the commitments on paper as soon as possible. It doesn't have to be tomorrow, but I hope so in the course of next week, so that everyone at least has them extended on paper before the recess. The second deadline will then take place on Tuesday 1 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u262	For the record, the PVV Group does not agree with this. This idea is not from the PVV Group. We believe that the second deadline should simply take place this evening and that this legislative proposal should be voted on next week. That is what the PVV wants, and I would like to mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u263	Excuse me. I had a very large group in front of my table. I didn't count, but I thought everyone was there. I've missed you. I'm sorry, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u264	You're forgiven, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-8.u265	Good. However, at some point the bill will be voted on. A roll-call vote has already been requested, and so it will be. I am also saying this to reassure Mr Kops.
