ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The people have asked for a referendum. The minister promised he'd organize that well, but it's a mess. That started with the voting booths. In many municipalities, the mayor doesn't think the referendum is important, so there will be a lot less voting booths. The municipalities complained about money. The municipalities got more money, but there weren't enough vocal corners. Some municipalities, such as Zutphen, decided to simply use the money for the referendum for very different things. People even had to go to court. That too became a mess. Son and Breugel have to set up more polling stations, not Oldenzaal. How is that possible? Then the whole election board thing started. Now we're gonna have to deal with voting passes. In different municipalities, voters receive not only a voting pass, but also a voting advice, by a truly curving summary of what would be found for and against. Municipalities use about the same texts. Who invented it? Did the minister come up with that? In any case, some municipalities, such as Goeree-Overflakkee, give both arguments. Other municipalities, such as Westland, represent half of the counter argument. And yet other municipalities, such as Zeist, leave out the counter-argument for convenience. The Minister promised that this referendum would be well organised, but it's a mess. How's the Minister gonna improve this? How is he going to prevent the mayor's preference from being more important than our democracy? Is the Minister prepared to invite foreign observers to see if this is acceptable with the referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. A few municipalities, including Westland and Veldhoven, have also sent a form stating the addresses of the polling stations in addition to the voting pass. Normally, those records are on the candidate list, but they're not there. Therefore, municipalities have listed the addresses separately. They thought: let us briefly summarise what the referendum is about on the back. In January, the Referendum Commission wrote to all the municipalities. It has written that it would be best for municipalities to refer for content to the website of the Referendum Committee. There is a piece of ten pages on it, but apparently these municipalities have thought: let's give a short summary of it. I took those summaries with me. I also took up the objections raised by GeenStijl. Honestly, I think nails are being searched on low water. For example, what has been delivered states that the objective of the agreement is to bring stability and security. It is also said that the conclusion of the treaty creates insecurity. I do not want to have a debate here on what it is responsible for, but I conclude that the phrase in the summary is directly derived from the material provided by the independent Referendum Committee. If you summarize a piece of ten pages on one side, people will always say that some arguments are missing. But I don't like to paint it in these words. I have recently said to municipalities: try to stay away from all that kind of discussion by referring as much as possible to the information provided by the independent Referendum Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-5.u3	The problem is that we have mayors with an opinion, who not only send a voting pass but also that opinion. In some cases, toe-currant arguments, which seem not to have been formulated by the Minister but by the Referendum Committee, are added to the voting pass. In most cases, the counter-arguments are omitted for convenience. Mayors aren't supposed to run politics. Mayors are supposed to organise the referendum. The Minister has promised that it would be well organized. So from now on, is it out with mayor propaganda on the voting passes? Is that done now? Is the minister going to tell the municipalities that it's ready and that they shouldn't do that anymore? Is it also over with the embarrassing legal procedures to get enough voting booths at all? What does the Minister think about the fact that one judge, in the case of Son and Breugel, says that there should be more polling stations, but that another judge, in the case of Oldenzaal, says that there is no need for more polling stations at all? Does the Minister think that the direction of the referendum should lie with judges, who also think differently? Or does he think that's a responsibility to himself? How does he feel that money intended for the referendum by complaining municipalities is being put into his own pocket by complaining mayors? What does he think of the argument of municipalities that they have far too little money to set up sufficient polling stations? Municipalities also say that we have far too little money to allow our people to say yes or no in a decent way. That while municipalities put the money in their pockets and spend on other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-5.u4	That's a lot of questions. Let me confine myself to what Mr Van Raak initially asked, namely the form. I find it really inappropriate to say that it is toe-currant or propaganda. I have just given an example of this. Even so, you may wonder if it is wise to get the content at all. But I would like the debate to focus over the next few weeks on the content of the association agreement, the arguments for and the arguments against, and to move away from toilet paper or questions about the independent judiciary. What the hell am I supposed to do with questions about the judiciary? There is the separation of powers; Mr Van Raak knows that very well. Let us focus on the content of what is ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-5.u5	I started that. I started that substantive debate on that terrible treaty. We've had the kick-off as SP. We're gonna make it a big success. However, we have referendum organisations who are going to decide on my behalf what my counter arguments are and who are going to add them to the voting pass. It's bothering me. I want to run a substantive campaign, and the Referendum Committee should not do that for me. There are a lot of problems. I mentioned the polling stations, the voting cards and the election boards. It's not decent, it's a mess. That is why I am asking if the Minister is prepared to invite foreign observers to see if this can be accepted with the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thirdly, I am opposed to the image of rumbling with the referendum. Rather, I have the idea that a number of groups, including Mr Van Raak's, seem to take every opportunity to give the impression that it is all such a mess. There has been an interim action concerning the subsidy to the polling stations. This has been won by the State of the Netherlands, let us be clear about that. Reference is made several times to the form of the municipality of Westland. I've been watching that. It is a short summary, but one that I can quite reasonably trace back to the more extensive summary of the independent Referendum Committee. Of course you can say that all the arguments are not on it, but that is probably what the advocates will say.
